ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-006-030.u1	30. Government bill amending certain laws on business regulation in the financial market /house print 398 - first reading Under the authority of the government, the motion submitted will be presented by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová... [[The Minister shall speak briefly to the President outside the microphone.]] Yes. But I just want to add that the point has been interrupted. The item was interrupted after the opening words of the Minister of Finance. So the Minister of Finance has already stated, because after your speech, the item was interrupted, and so I ask that the rapporteur take the floor continuously for the first reading of Mr Jan Řehounek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-006-030.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, since the Minister's report was read just before the end, I would perhaps be a little more extensive if I were to read really what this bill relates to. It is a printing of 398, whose primary aim is to adapt the amendment to the Regulation on the prospectus of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2017, under No. 1129, which repeals and replaces the current European directive, which is transposed into the Capital Market Business Act. It was used that this adjustment is actually taking place, and in agreement, as the Minister has already announced here, with the Czech National Bank, with associations that actually associate entities operating in the financial market, there are changes in some other laws. And I'd like to brief them here. So this is primarily an amendment to Act No. 256/2004 Coll., on Capital Market Business, where, in addition to the prospectus regulation, as I have already mentioned here, the other change is the change in relation to recording telephone calls, when the proposed regulation actually requires the trader to record all calls and not only the selected ones. Next thing. There is a transposition of the Guarantee Schemes Directive, where the securities trader will be newly obliged to inform the customer about the customer's compensation system and the extent and extent of the customer's assets coverage. Another law covered by this amendment is Law No. 15/1998 Coll., on Capital Market Supervision. The amendment states that the Czech National Bank has the power to require the information necessary for the exercise of capital market supervision from each, i.e. from providers of publicly available telephone services. Another law to which this House press is concerned is Law No. 190/2004 Coll., on Bonds. This is due to the absence of a database of paper-based corporate bonds without a prospectus. In fact, currently only book-booked bonds appear in that database. This means that, in fact, the ISIN will be newly allocated to all international bond issues. At the same time, another change is the imposition of an obligation on the issuer to inform investors in the emission conditions that the Czech National Bank does not assess the prospectus in terms of content, but only controls the formal completeness of the data required. It is also an amendment to Act No. 182/2006 Sb., Act on bankruptcy and methods of its solution, so-called. insolvency law. That's what the Secretary of State mentioned. At present, in the event of the actual bankruptcy of one of the sub-funds, the bankruptcy of the entire joint-stock company, which is the issuer or the issuer, may be due to the bankruptcy of the entire joint-stock company. the manager of these sub-funds. Therefore, for the purposes of insolvency proceedings, an explicit declaration of procedural personality is proposed to all mutual funds and sub-funds by law. This means that, in future, they will be the insolvency proceedings themselves and the above negative consequences on the investment company will not fall. Then it's the amendment to Law No. 240/2013 Coll., on investment companies and investment funds, where the regulation of the promoter is modernised, which is actually the father of the basic idea of the investment strategy. Ex ante control by depositary, tolerance of insignificant valuation errors and outsourcing for qualified investor funds, assembly of shareholders and adaptation of the law to certain European regulations that have started to apply from the scope and effectiveness of this existing law. The next law is Law No. 427/2011 Sb., on supplementary pension savings, where the aim of the amendment is to separate investment mediation and mediation of supplementary pension savings. This means that an intermediary in both these parts of the market is currently viewed together. There will now be a factual separation from classical investment mediation and, on the other hand, the mediation of supplementary pension savings. And then there are three amendments to the laws that apply to the original six. There is an amendment to Act 634/2004 on administrative fees, where it is a necessary regulation with regard to the harmonisation. What I said before, the separation of the supplementary pension savings from the investment mediation. At the same time, this concerns the amendment to Act No. 21/1992 Coll., on Banks. And the last law that is affected is the distribution of insurance and reinsurance. I've been trying to sum it up this way. That means it's a press that looks seemingly very complicated. On the other hand, there are really two, tops, three essential things that I just want to stick out here. That means it's really an adaptation to the prospectus regulation in those bonds. And then the second big area is the supplementary pension savings department. So much for an introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-006-030.u3	Well, thank you. I am opening a general debate. Yes, Mrs. Kovářová reporting. You're the only one, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-006-030.u4	Dear colleagues, I'm sure you know many of you and have the same experience as I have with complaints about high and ever-increasing burdens by legislative requirements, which are reflected among other things in the increase in costs. And now that we are dealing with a law amending certain laws on the regulation of entrepreneurship in the financial market, especially because it is necessary to adapt the current legal situation to the new regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2017/1129 of 14 June 2017 on the prospectus, I would like to remind you that, among other things, the Ministry of Finance's consulting material on the prospectus regulation and on other related issues states: The World Bank, however, points out in its report that European Union regulations are very prescriptive and burdensome, and therefore brings great costs. In the view of the World Bank, these costs should not yet be increased by national arrangements that go beyond the minimum standard required by European Union law, because any other national requirements can reduce the competitiveness of Czech capital market players and constitute serious obstacles to their development. [[There's noise in the room.]] I was therefore surprised to read in the preamble to Amendment 13 in the present Houses of the Press 398: "An adjustment is proposed that goes beyond the mandatory transposition of MiFID II.' So I took a closer look at it and found that the amendment of Section 17 of the Capital Market Business Act was proposed by the Ministry of Finance in an inter-ministerial commentary procedure in a different version than we now have in the Houses of the Press. The original text was revised to its current form at the request of the Czech National Bank. About the Financial Commission of the Government Legislative Council... I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President, but it's pretty noisy here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-006-030.u5	Yes. I'm going to ask you not to disturb the lady in her statement. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-006-030.u6	Thank you. In addition, the Financial Commission of the Legislative Council of the Government stated in its observations that otherwise it would be desirable to consider once more the adaptation of § 17 as submitted by the Ministry of Finance to the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. Although this proposal is more detailed, it seems better suited to the needs of practice. Paragraph 17 concerns recording telephone calls and the proposed amendment extends the obligation to record telephone calls beyond MiFID II and is a serious intervention in the privacy of customers, securities dealers and would increase costs without any serious reason. This is illustrated by the Czech National Bank itself in its report on financial market supervision in 2017, which states that the average number of submissions made to the public in the field of professional care of credit institutions adopted by the CNB over the last five years is 541, of which the number of submissions made to banks as securities traders is only 26 on average, which is less than 5% of the total number of submissions. As regards non-banking securities traders, except foreign, for which the CNB is not competent to conduct an investigation, the above-mentioned report for 2017 lists 48 submissions. In both cases, these are lower dozens of submissions per year, and not in all areas recording is a relevant tool for their elimination. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it should be considered whether this inadequate regulation should be mitigated or eliminated. I look forward to the discussion in the committees, and if there is a will, I will put forward an amendment, or I will support the proposal of any of you that pursues the same objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-006-030.u7	I will look around to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking for an interest in final words. Madam Secretary? You're interested. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-006-030.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will only respond very briefly to Mrs Kovářová. Yes, we were very much debating this in the commentary procedure. I met with representatives of both the Czech National Bank and the relevant association. I listened to both sides' arguments and finally decided to leave the amendment in the legislative process as it is in the current text. I weighed very much on the scales the arguments you make and the arguments which are consumer protection and how to technically secure it. Because what's important? Protect the client. And we don't know in advance what part of the call is going to be about any problem, we don't know exactly what the call is going to be about. That's why I finally decided and left the recording complete in the legislative process because I couldn't imagine how else it would be possible to ensure that we protect the client and actually ensure that what needed to be recorded would be recorded. It was such a pragmatic conclusion that I didn't really know how else to do it. When I listened to both sides, I was personally involved, so the arguments outweighed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-006-030.u9	Now the rapporteur, Mr Řehounek - are you interested in the final word? You do. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-006-030.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Before I recommend a referral to second reading and committee discussions, I would like to support what the Minister has said. I have more than ten years of experience in this area, and perhaps even in what has been going on here before lunch, where we have been dealing in some way with how to protect consumers on the real estate market, and I, too, am clearly in favour of really protecting consumers here in the first place. I do not believe that all institutions operating in the financial market would not bear the costs of recording calls. So it's in the quotation marks on the content page. And now the formal side. I would like to support, as rapporteur, the referral of this House press for further discussion in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-006-030.u11	This was Mr Jan Řehounek's rapporteur. I have no proposal here that we would vote on when it comes to returning or rejecting, so we will now deal with the motion for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. I'm asking if any of you have a motion for a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I don't see a suggestion. I will arrange for Members to be called to the Chamber of Deputies. There's a check-out request, so I'm gonna check you all out. Log in again with your voting cards. I think we can proceed to the vote. I will repeat once again: we will vote on the proposal from the Organising Committee, which has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 111, 133 Members registered, for 132, against no one. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. [[15.00 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether any of you have a proposal to the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see any suggestion, so I'm done reading this law first. Now I'm gonna read the apologies, I've got a whole bunch of them down here. Members Pavel Žáček apologizes today from 15.45 a.m. to the end of the day. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes for working reasons today from 14:30 to 17:00, Mr Lubomír Volný apologizes from 14:30 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Radka Maxová apologises from 14:30 to 17:00 for working reasons, and Mr Pavel Holomčík apologises from 14:30 to 15:30 for working reasons. We will now proceed to the next proposal. This is about
