ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-001-316.u1	316. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest, and they will then be drawn. Today we will begin with answers to written interpelations. First of all, there is an interview with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation with regard to the Senate resolution on duplication of controls. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 482. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. The Prime Minister is abroad, he is excused, which is why the obstacle to discussing this interpelation lasts and we will discuss it at the next meeting, at the next meeting. Next is the interpelation of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, who responded to the interpelation of Mr Vojtěch Filip on the building of a unified information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the state of gradual replacement of the system of OKsystem. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 571. The discussion of this reply was also suspended until the Minister was present. And the Minister added an apology for health reasons, as I read a moment ago, so we cannot discuss this written interview and will be the subject of further negotiations at the next meeting. We now have an interview with the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, who responded to Mr Radek Holomčík's interpellation with regard to the procedure of the Ministry of Environment in the case of gravel mining near the municipality of Moravský Písek. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 587. This hearing has also been suspended in the presence of the Minister of the Environment. And as we know, the Minister is also abroad and is duly excused. We can't discuss this. We will discuss this at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Last reply to the written interpelation. This is an interpelation again for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, who responded to the interpelation of Mrs Olga Richterová on the issue of the systemization of the medical assessment services and its reforms on information systems and the support of the medical assessment service process and on the assessment of health status and working capacity under Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 588. Also this response has been interrupted by the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, so unfortunately we cannot discuss this interpelation and we will focus on it at the next October meeting. [[9.10 hours]] Madam, honourable Members, I note that, for these reasons, for today's day, we have ended discussing the responses to the written interpelation of Members. I propose a short break by 9:20 p.m. to allow the Senator to be present and to allow his colleagues to come back to the ballroom, to prepare for, say, a truly extraordinary event, and that is to discuss the lawsuit against the President of the Republic. I'm interrupting this meeting by 9:20.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-001-316.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before we go any further, I would like to read a few more apologies which have subsequently come. Mr Jan Richter apologizes between 9.00 and 9.30 due to negotiations, apologies to Mr František Navrkal for health reasons within 10 hours, apologies to Mr Lubomír Volný from today's sitting from 9 to 10 o'clock for working reasons. I am not sure if I have read the apology of Mrs Ivana Nevludová - between 9:00 and 10:00 for work reasons. Mr Jan Řehounek apologizes between 9 and 11 o'clock due to illness, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský apologizes between 9.00 and 9.30 due to traffic situation, Mr Patrik Nacher apologises from 9 to 11 o'clock - meeting in the electoral region, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk apologizes because of illness, Mr Petr Vrána apologizes also for health reasons, Mr Martin Kupka apologises between 9 and 11 o'clock for reasons of work. Well, that's about it, I hope, really. Member Vít Kaňkovský here personally demonstrates that he is present and cancels his apology. Ladies and gentlemen, I will adjourn the meeting by 9:30 so that we can meet the condition of the presence of one of the members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-26-ps2017-034-07-001-316.u3	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 9:30 a.m., we will continue with the adjourned negotiations. I'll read some more apologies. Mr Vyzula apologizes from 9.30 to 12.30 for business reasons, Mr Vyzula apologises between 9.00 and 11.00 for personal reasons Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes for today's medical reasons Mr Jan Skopeček. We should now address the rigid clause 256 - the constitutional action against the President. We would then, if necessary, continue to discuss the item from the report block, proposals and more. In the afternoon, we'd be dealing with point 317, which is oral questioning. I remind you of the agreement from Tuesday's Gremium that if we had not concluded the discussion of paragraph 256 in the morning, we would have continued to discuss it after the exhaustion of paragraph 317, that is to say oral questioning. Now, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, although perhaps formally, I ask whether anyone is interested in speaking on the agenda, so that we may vote on the proposals. But no one's checking in, so we'll proceed with a valid program. So I'm opening up a point.
