ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-010-034.u1	34. Government bill amending Act No. 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and other related Laws /German Press 454/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by Minister Klára Dostálová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-010-034.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to present the Government's amendment to Act No. 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care. The proposed bill is implementing the EU Regulation on protective measures against harmful plant organisms and the EU Regulation on official controls. The aim is to delete the duplicate provisions that are newly contained in the directly applicable regulations, to determine the competences of the competent authorities, to lay down detailed procedural rules where the regulations contain only general arrangements and, last but not least, to lay down penalties for infringements laid down by the regulations. In addition to the implementation of the abovementioned Regulations, the aim of the proposal is in particular: to make changes in the field of labelling, repacking, transfer and storage of plant protection products in order to improve their traceability; to make changes in the field of placing plant protection products on the market where they have undergone a period of applicability ensuring that such products are safer; to clarify the professional competence in the performance of state administration, to carry out professional plant health activities or, in the case of the application of products dangerous to bees, to reduce the distance applicable to the definition of the bees' breeders concerned from 5 km to 2 km from the border of the land, for the purpose of establishing the notification obligation of farmers to beekeepers. [[16.50 hours]] The draft law also contains a technical accompanying amendment to the Act on the Central Inspection and Testing Institute of Agriculture, which also adapts the two mentioned European Union regulations. The draft law also includes an amendment to the Act on Administrative Charges, which will in particular allow the collection of administrative fees for acts carried out under the Regulation, and further increases the administrative fee for the acceptance of applications for the registration of fertilisers, soil aid, auxiliary plant preparation or substrate from third countries to a level comparable to other EU countries, in particular Slovakia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-010-034.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for the opening statement. I will ask a Member designated as rapporteur for first reading, Mr Josef Kott. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-010-034.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear fellow Members, thank you for the introductory words which have been very extensive, Madam Secretary, and I would like to say the most important things briefly in my opinion. Draft amendment of Act No. 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care, is a reaction to the re-evaluation of the plant health care system within the European Union. In the European plant health care system, the relevant Directive has been repealed and replaced by Regulation 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 October 2016 on protective measures against harmful plant organisms. In addition, Regulation 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls was adopted. And now, in brief, what the laws relate to. Law No 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care, it is therefore necessary to adapt these two regulations. The adaptation is treated as a way that - first of all - provisions are deleted from the Plant Health Care Act, which would duplicate the regulation provided for by the regulations in question, including basic terms; Secondly, the powers of the competent authorities shall be determined; third - procedural rules shall be laid down where the regulations contain only general substantive legislation; Fourth - penalties shall be laid down for infringements of the obligations laid down in the Regulations. The draft law complements the adjustments which arise on the basis of the findings of application practice, such as changes in labelling, repacking, transfer and storage of plant protection products, changes in the marketing of plant protection products, where they have passed their period of application, the withdrawal of the obligation to apply in writing for consent to the use of a product classified as acutely toxic category 1 or 2 as well as changes in professional competence in the performance of state administration in the performance of professional phytosanitary activities. In addition, it is proposed that the related regulation of Act No. 147/2002 Coll., on the Central Audit and Testing Institute of Agriculture and the adaptation of tarifflists of Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees as amended. Since this amendment of the law also deserves a wider discussion in my opinion, I would like to propose an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-010-034.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the introductory words and open a general debate in which I have no one in writing and I do not see anybody in the area, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking if there is an interest in the final words. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. We will vote on the commandment as a guarantee committee to the agricultural committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting order number 118. 176 Members and Members signed in for 144, the proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees? I don't see anyone. We will still deal with the last vote, it is the vote on the proposal to extend the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days. I've started the vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting order number 119. Registered 176 Members and Members. For 144. The motion was accepted. Thank you. The next item is
