ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u1	286. Draft of the State Final Account of the Czech Republic for the year 2018 /German press 472/ The opinion of the Supreme Audit Office was distributed as House Press 472/1. And I will ask the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová to present the proposal. Once again, I'd like to ask you to remain calm in the hall. If anyone has any debate that has nothing to do with this point, let them debate in the foyer. Thank you on the right and on the left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, under the authority of the Government, to present the draft state final account of the Czech Republic for 2018. The state budget for 2018 was approved as a deficit deficit of 50 billion. Crowns. Total revenue was budgeted at 1 314 billion. CZK and total expenditure in volume 1 364,5 - there was a billion. Crowns. [[unintelligible]] The approved budget for total revenue and expenditure was increased by 12,2 billion in total by budgetary measures for nine chapters during the year. CZK, on the basis of the authorisation of the Minister of Finance pursuant to § 24 para. 4 of the Budgetary Rules Act. It concerns the financing of projects under operational programmes co-financed by the EU budget. The budget for total revenue after the changes thus reached 1 326,7 billion. CZK, total expenditure 1 376,7 billion. and the budget deficit remained unchanged. Implementation of total revenue at 105,8% and budget overruns by 77,2 billion. CZK was mainly affected by the overrun of planned EU income and financial mechanisms by 36,6 billion. CZK, income from social security contributions by 16,4 billion, income from the auction sale of emission allowances by 9 billion. CZK and tax revenue by 4.8 billion. Crowns. Annually, total revenues were increased by 130.3 billion. CZK, i.e. by 10,2 %, of which income from social security contributions by 47.1 billion. CZK, revenue from the EU budget and financial mechanisms by CZK 42 billion. CZK and tax revenue of 37.7 billion. Crowns. The tax quota, including social security premiums and public health insurance, increased by 0,8 percentage points year on year to 36% of GDP. The increase reflects the higher efficiency of tax collection, in particular through control reports and electronic records of sales. [[9.10 hours]] The total cost of the state budget was 101.8 % of the budget after the changes. They're overstepping by 24.2 billion. CZK, which was allowed to draw claims from unused expenditure, was influenced mainly by higher expenditure, which is prefinanced from the state budget and is part of the requests for payment from the EU budget and financial mechanisms. This was exceeded by 30,2 billion. Kč. The capital expenditure budget has been exceeded by 23 billion. CZK, for current expenses by 1.2 billion. CZK, year-on-year total expenditures were increased by 121.2 billion. Kč. Of this, social benefits, mainly due to the growth of pensions, were increased by 25.6 billion. CZK, transfers of territorial budgets increased by 28 billion. CZK, mainly due to wage growth in regional education. Entrepreneurs were referred to 18,8 billion year on year. CZK more, contributions and similar organizations such as universities and public research institutions, by 15.2 billion. CZK more, expenditure on salaries and related expenditure of the organisational units of the state increased by 13,8 billion. CZK, expenditure on joint EU programmes, financial mechanisms, increased by CZK 31.1 billion year on year. CZK, i.e. by 33.1 % and had a major impact mainly on capital expenditure growth by 34.7 billion. Kč. The share of the total expenditure of the State budget for GDP in 2018 was 26.3 %, in 2017 it was 25.4 %. The resulting state budget surplus for 2018 of 2,9 billion. CZK 52,9 billion. CZK better than budget forecast result, deficit 50 billion. and by 9.1 billion. CZK better than the balance reported in 2017 where the deficit was CZK 6,15 billion. Kč. In particular, tax revenues including social security premiums, which exceeded the planned amount by 21.1 billion, were positive for the surplus. CZK and non-tax and other revenue from EU funds and financial mechanisms, which exceeded the budget by CZK 19.4 billion. Kč. A positive balance of EU funds and financial mechanisms of 6.4 billion also contributed to a good result. Kč. It is always in an approved budget with a neutral impact. The balance of the 2018 budget, excluding EU funds and financial mechanisms on both the revenue and expenditure side, would be a deficit of 3.5 billion. CZK, in the previous year 2017 deficit in the amount of 1.3 billion. Kč. The submitted draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2018 shows state budget revenue of 1 403.9 billion. CZK, state budget expenditure of 1,401 billion. CZK and state budget surplus of 2,9 billion. CZK and proposes the settlement of the surplus of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 as follows: issued government bonds, with a reduction of 1.6 billion. CZK, change in state financial assets accounts, with an increase of CZK 1.3 billion. Kč. So much government budget management 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, let me mention the management of public finances, or the general government sector, in 2018. According to data from the Czech Statistical Office, the management of the entire general government sector ended in 2018 with a surplus of 44.4 billion. CZK, corresponding to 0.9 percent of GDP. The surplus has already been achieved for the third year in a row and all sub-sectors have contributed to it. The balance adjusted for the effect of the business cycle and of one-off or other transitional operations thus reached a level of 0,4 % of GDP. The medium-term budgetary objective for the period 2017 to 2019 was set at a structural deficit of 1% of GDP. The debt of the general government sector in relation to GDP has been declining steadily since 2014 and this trend continued in 2018. The debt ratio decreased year on year by 2 percentage points to 32.7 percent of GDP. We are still expecting surplus management of the general government sector in 2019 at 0.3 percent of GDP. The estimated economic result of the general government sector should also be reflected in the ongoing trend of the relative debt of the general government sector relative to GDP, at the end of 2019 we predict a lower relative amount of government debt than in 2018, at 31,3% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I hope with this brief speech I have succeeded in bringing you closer to the Government's draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2018, and I would therefore like to ask you, on behalf of the Government, to take note of the material submitted and, at the same time, to agree to settle the surplus of the State budget for 2018 as recommended by the Budget Committee in its resolution and as stated in the draft resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. First, some information. With the replacement card number 15, Mr Špičák votes. Today, Mrs Zuzana Majerová apologises to Mrs Balcar from 12.30 to 15.00 for reasons of work and apologizes to Mrs Balcarová from 12.30 to 15.00 for health reasons. The Committee on Budgets has discussed the Committee's resolutions on this material with the rapporteur's participation and adopted the resolutions you received as House Press 472/3. The Audit Committee has discussed the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office and adopted a resolution which has been distributed to you as House Press 472/2. I ask that the rapporteur and, at the same time, the President of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, inform us of the committee's discussion and of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u4	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, the state final account has been discussed both in the Committee on Budgets and in other Chambers of Professional Committees, in principle, in line with the timetable. That is why today we will be able to decide by our vote on the motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on Budgets. Let me just remind you that, as far as the 2018 budget is concerned, Sobotkův's government has presented it and the new Chamber of Deputies approved it in a very short time. I would just like to remind you that time is really running out that the first reading of this budget started on December 5, and already on December 20, the President was signing the State Budget Act, so much space - it took us actually 14 days - it really wasn't there for any possible systemic or parametric changes, but I think his approval was a good step, certainly better than if a budgetary measure had been adopted. This is just a reminder on the basis of the 2018 budget. The numbers were written here by the Minister, so I'm really not going to keep them here. I just think there's one more thing to say. Each budget is based on predictions. Here let me rather stop at what the Ministry of Finance is doing well, which are estimates and predictions for the future, because if you look at the budget numbers of 2018, which were based on the prediction of autumn 2017, you will find that they hit slowly with clockwork accuracy, which is repeated several times in a row. That's what I think we need to appreciate here. On the other hand, what we cannot do, and what is a stumbling block, is the money that comes from the European Union. Before I introduce you to the motion for a resolution, I looked a little into history. We're really on a swing there, because if we take it from 2015, it's lost 12 billion. less than was calculated in 2016, on the contrary, by 62 billion. more, in 2017 again by 21 billion. less and by 37 billion again in 2018. more, so these matters are difficult to estimate. Here, perhaps, it is only necessary to be really cautious when drawing up national budgets, because we cannot accurately estimate how the European Union funds flow from us. [[9.20 hours]] It has already been said that the Supreme Audit Office has commented on the State Final Account, the report has been discussed by the Supervisory Committee, the rapporteur and the President will certainly give us an opinion. And I, if you don't mind, would like to introduce you to the motion for a resolution, as it was adopted in the Committee on Budgets. It is the resolution of the budget committee of the 29th meeting of 2 October 2019 on the Government's draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2018, Parliament's Press 472: Following the opening interpretation of Deputy Minister of Finance and Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Kouba and Mr Tyl, after hearing the reports of the Committee's rapporteurs and following the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. discussed at a joint meeting with the Committee's rapporteurs the Committee's resolution on the Czech State Final Account for 2018 and the resolution of the Audit Committee on the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the draft State Final Account and stated that [[hereinafter referred to as the State Final Account]] (a) all committees have recommended: The Chamber of Deputies shall approve or take note of the results of the management of the various chapters and headings of the State Budget and the financial relations of the State Budget to the State Funds under the resolution of the Budget Committee No 242 of 3 April 2019; (b) the Defence Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following accompanying resolution: The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government remove the differences in remuneration between the staff of the National Security Office and members of the Security Councils, pursuant to Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the service of members of the security forces, and civil servants, pursuant to Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service; (c) the Security Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following accompanying resolution: the Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government that, when preparing the budget for 2020 and the medium-term perspective for 2021 and 2022, Chapter 305 of the Security Information Service maintain at least the existing level of expenditure according to the approved medium-term outlook for the State budget for 2020 and 2021; (d) In its resolution on the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the draft State Final Account, the Audit Committee notes that the government's budgetary policy reduces the resilience of the state budget to the possible future cooling of the economy. II. The Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, therefore, after discussing all the chapters and headings of the Government's draft state final account as a whole, the House's press 472, including the Government's motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the State's final account, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolutions: Chamber of Deputies I. Notes 1. state final account of the Czech Republic for 2018, which shows state budget revenue of 1 403 918 022 thousand, state budget expenditure of 1 400 974 393 thousand. and a total state budget surplus of 2 943 629 thousand; 2. results of the budgetary management of local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of cohesion regions in the Czech Republic for 2018, which reported revenues of 532 592 421 thousand. CZK, expenses of 523 800 300 thousand. CZK 8 792 121 thousand and surplus. CZK; 3. state of state financial assets of the Czech Republic as at 31 December 2018 amounting to 115 576 908 thousand. CZK and state financial liabilities of the Czech Republic amounting to 1 694 909 446 thousand. CZK; 4. information on the main results of the management of the state funds of the Czech Republic for the year 2018 according to the data provided in the F draft of the state final account; 5. information on the status and development of the state guarantees referred to in the D-book of the draft State Final Account; 6. information on the status of the funds of the organisational units of the State referred to in the F workbook of the State Final Account; 7. information on the privatisation process and on the state and use of funds held in special accounts for 2018, pursuant to Act No. 178/2005 Coll., on the abolition of the National Property Fund, mentioned in Workbook I of the draft State Final Account; II. agrees to settle the surplus of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 by financing items as follows: issued government bonds by a reduction of CZK 1,600 437 415,46, change in state financial assets accounts by an increase of CZK 1,343 191 320,32; III. Notes that she discussed the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2018 and takes note of it. So much for the whole motion for a resolution of the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u5	I thank you, Madame, and I ask that the President and rapporteur Mr Roman Kubíček also inform us about the meeting of the Supervisory Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be considerably more brief and I will present to you the resolution of the inspection committee of the 21st meeting of 17 September 2019: Audit Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening interpretation of the President of the Supreme Audit Office Miloslav Kala, the report by Roman Kubíček and the opinion of Deputy Minister of Finance Karel Tyl and after the debate 1. Notes the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2018, House Press 472/1; 2. Notes that the government's budgetary policy reduces the resilience of the state budget to the possible future cooling of the economy; 3. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and to the President of the Supreme Audit Office and to the Minister of Finance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I am opening a general debate in which President Kalousek is the first with priority rights at the moment. For colleagues who have come forward with a factual point, I recall that I have only just opened up the debate. It is now possible to sign up after the first performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let me stress one to those of you who may have missed some of the sentences of the intelligence report. It is a sentence from the resolution of the Supervisory Committee, which after the debate has been held that the budgetary policy of the government reduces the resilience of the state budget to the possible future cooling of the economy. Of course, this is not just a question of the 2018 budget, it is a long-term trend in the budgetary policy of both government parties during this and last parliamentary term, when we are really reducing the state budget's resilience to the possible future cooling of the economy every year, for God's sakes, the crisis. It's for a simple reason. Even though the economy is doing exceptionally well, even though the government has access to income without meriting it itself, from year to year higher than a hundred billion income, so-called. Mandatory and quasi-mandatory spending is growing faster than these revenues are growing at a time of growth. Everyone, even those who do not deal with public budgets and who intend to approximate this trend, is easily aware of what will happen when income does not grow so quickly, God forbid they will fall, but the mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenses will have to be paid further because they are either legally or out of long-term contractual obligations. It is a path that increases the risk of the future, it is a path that, at the expense of the future of our citizens, buys current government popularity. [[9.30 hours]] We have never voted for budgets with this trend, we have never voted for budgets that are not responsible for the future. We therefore have no reason to vote in favour of the final account of one of the years showing this trend. I particularly stress this because the next item is the discussion of the state budget for 2020. We are now discussing the State Final Account for 2018, but the trend to which the Supervisory Committee warns its resolution, the trend to which it warns the Supreme Audit Office's position is also the trend of this year and is the trend in the budget presented by this government for next year. Therefore, also to that next point, i.e. the draft State budget for 2020, please bear in mind that sentence from the resolution of the Supervisory Committee: "The government's budget policy reduces the state budget's resilience to possible future economic cooling. " Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u9	Thank you and, with a factual remark, Mr Votava. With the replacement card number 16, Mr Skopeček votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I don't want to discuss directly with the state closing account. I just want to say, and I would also like to say that the ice has finally moved and we are actually discussing the state budget for next year's state final account of the previous year 2018. I've criticized this place several times because it wasn't always like that, or it was almost a rule that it wasn't. I have said to the House that I have prepared an amendment, or an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the House, so that what happened here in the past cannot be repeated. Perhaps it would no longer be necessary to go to the House with this proposal, but I do not really think that this will happen again, so that what we are discussing here today is the rule for the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u11	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík is also enrolled in the general debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would first like to deal with this claim that the revenue of the budget is growing through the audit report and the EET. I can easily prove that the numbers available to us are simply not true. When we look at the total revenue of the state budget in 2018, this is a table on page 45 of the state final account, or the document that we have available in the Houses of the Press, we will learn that the percentage of planned VAT collection reached 99,3%. This means that this government raised less money for VAT in 2018 than it planned. So on the value added tax to which the control reports and the EET are most targeted, you have chosen less than you planned. What is the real source of the state budget is the collection of personal income tax and the collection of social insurance, i.e. pension insurance. That's where the selection grows more than the government planned. This means 0.8% for personal income tax, even 3.3 percent for pension insurance and 14 percent year on year for personal income tax and 10 percent for pension insurance - while VAT increases by less than 5 percent. So the increase in the collection of personal income tax is almost three times higher than the increase in VAT. And while, in the case of the collection of personal income tax and pension insurance, the income grew above the plan, it was under the plan for VAT. So saying it's a control report and an EET, it's a goddamn lie. You've collected $2 billion less than you planned. So much for that statement. And I would also like to draw attention to three important things for me from the SAO report. Firstly, the capital expenditure was only drawn out of 66.5 percent of the planned budget. This means that only two thirds of the investments planned by the government in the state budget were made, while for current expenditure it was 95 percent. So it's really nice if you write down how much you're going to invest in the budget, but when you only make two thirds of these investments, they just don't. That's what the Supreme Audit Office points out. Yes, there is a slight improvement against 2017 which was extremely bad. Come in. Andrej Babiš boasts how he helps pensioners, but the pension account was in excess of CZK 18.6 billion. This means that you used CZK 18.6 billion intended for the needs of our pensioners and improved your management results instead of using them to reduce the cost of life of pensioners in the future, for example by building cheap housing, or to use it to bail out the demographic tooth. Instead, you turned it into a regular budget income. You've yet to pass a special law to make it a really normal budget income, and you've included it in the budget. This is the last time Kalousek did this, if I'm not mistaken, and I'm sure you didn't praise him for that. - I'm sorry, Mr. Kalousek. I meant it as a rhetorical figure. And one last thing. The Supreme Audit Office notes that the readiness of the Czech Republic for the crisis is worse than in 2008. This is again from the Supreme Audit Office report, and that is where your budget policy leads, which makes the entire budgets dependent on personal income tax and pension insurance. And it is this tax, or these levies, that are most dependent on the economic cycle. And because the dependence of the budget on these revenues under the rule of the ANO movement is increasing extremely, we are extremely poorly prepared for the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u13	Thank you. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes between 9 and 14 o'clock for reasons of work. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u14	Thank you for the floor. I am glad that I can take this opportunity, because the state final account should indeed be at the moment when the government is depositing its accounts in front of the public, and therefore I wanted to ask a few questions that result from the opinion on the draft State final account of the Czech Republic for 2018, submitted by the SAO, which we have not yet heard a satisfactory answer, as I have also asked colleagues who are on the Audit Committee. So if I begin, on page 13 of that opinion, the Supreme Audit Office is expressing itself on certain shortcomings in the budgetary system. According to the SAO, the budgetary system should be more focused on drawing up the budget of individual expenditure items in order to avoid a significant lack of final budgets and an increase in claims from unused expenditure. When drawing up the state budget, account should be taken of the possibility of involving claims on unused expenditure, which significantly increase the final budget. As has been shown, inter alia, by audit action 16/09, at present, claims from unused expenditure are often included in the budget, regardless of the actual needs of the chapters. The State Budget Act thus loses its significance. I consider this to be a very fundamental statement in the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office, if it tells us that the State Budget Act is losing its meaning as a result of the government's ability to move expenditures through those claims from unused expenditures. [[9.40 hours]] I would ask the Minister to comment on this statement of the Supreme Audit Office. At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister how this audit is actually taking place from the point of view of performance audits within the Ministry of Finance, because all these statements and accounts are being compiled today based on how much money has been spent on something, how much money have we spent on it or on it, but we no longer ask what we have received as taxpayers. I was now on a business trip with the Constitutional and Legal Committee in Slovakia, and there we visited, among other things, the Value for Money Unit, where they have analytical departments that actually examine the efficiency of spending public funds, and I was interested in the fact that they really focus on what the taxpayer gets for every million that is in the public budget. And unfortunately, in my opinion, the SAO is doing these performance audits, in particular, but I think the Ministry of Finance should do them within its scope, so that we as Members get up-to-date, quick information about how public spending is being spent. So here I wanted to ask the Minister if he was planning any changes in performance audits, or so-called spending reviews, which are also being done in Slovakia or the UK. The NKÚ then points out the difference between the monetary principle and the accrual principle. On page 15 of its opinion, where it states that the SAO stated in the audit conclusion of the control action No. 17/36 that the potential of accrual accounting information was not fully used by the Ministry of Finance. This information shows the actual financial implications of the decisions made and can help to make the account more transparent in the management of state property and better budgeting, provided that they are reliable and comparable. The lack of interconnection of accrual accounting with the budgetary system and the resulting non-use of accrual accounting information by the Ministry of Finance in drawing up the state budget, the final accounts, the chapters of the State budget and the State Final Account represent a significant reduction in the anticipated benefits of the 2010 accounting reform. So I wanted to ask if the secretary is planning any changes in this area, which the NKÚ points out as a problem. In connection with this, we also proposed last year, even the previous year, that the Ministry of Finance should proceed to the so-called. a clicking budget where this accrual information could also be recorded. I know that there is currently a monitor that basically only regulates, let's say, the financial results in one or another item or chapter, but it no longer contains such essential information about what the money went to so that we can assess whether it was effectively spent, or which company went to that area. I am pleased to be able to please my colleagues from the ANO movement that we have decided in Prague and in Mariánské Lázně and at the level of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies that there is a real clicking budget. I believe that this is therefore a principle that would be transferable to the level of the state. I would also like to briefly address the question that has already been raised here, and this is the issue of reducing labour taxation. The Supreme Audit Office draws attention to the fact that some items from the Government's programming declaration have not yet been fulfilled, such as the abolition of the supergross wage on personal income tax with a positive impact on the reduction of the level of labour taxation or the adoption of systemic measures to reduce the administrative burden on both the tax administrator and the tax entity. I know that some minor measures have already been taken in this administrative area, but I would also like to ask the Minister in the context of this opinion of the SAO how he intends to reflect the announced reduction in labour taxation for individuals. Because basically, it shows us from the state closing account that a large portion of the billions have flown because more money has been raised from the normal people. Not on their income, not so much on the VAT, where it corresponds in principle to the planned revenues. And the last question I have concerns page 26 of the SAO's opinion, where the Supreme Audit Office points out that the Czech Republic, in international comparison published by the European Commission, placed in the second-last place in 2018 from a European 28-year-old with a value of 63 percent of the contracted funds from the total allocation to approved projects co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds. The Czech Republic did not approach the average EU countries, which in 2018 amounted to 72 percent of the contracted funds. On the contrary, there has been a year-on-year deterioration by 3 percentage points between the average of the European Union and the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Finance is undoubtedly following very closely the way in which funds are drawn from the European funds, which are in charge of the Ministry of Regional Development, and I wanted to ask what measures have been taken in this area, so as to avoid the adverse effect that, in fact, a large part of the funds are left to draw until the end of that period, which obviously increases the risk that these expenditures, these taxpayers' money, or the European Union, will be used inefficiently. It does not make sense if we have any money available, whether it is collected from the taxes of citizens of the Czech Republic, or whether it is income from the European Union that we contribute to, so it is also mediated by taxpayers' money, so there is absolutely no point in distinguishing between it and insisting only that we so-called use everything, but also there is a need to focus on making the expenditures properly planned, arranged in time, and then evaluated the effectiveness of spending these public funds. Then, of course, the SAO draws attention to some other shortcomings that we know notoriously here, such as the warning that only four kilometres of motorways in the Czech Republic were built in 2018, but we have already discussed this many times, it is a well-known deficiency, certain legislative changes have been adopted there and I hope that even in these other areas, which I do not want to discuss in detail, the government will take effective steps to remedy. [[Noise in the hall.]] I'd like to ask the Minister if she could comment on these questions. I think that this is adequate, because it is basically the only option for us as the Chamber of Deputies to deal with how the government really fills its budget and its financial policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u15	I thank Mr Michálek. I don't have anyone registered for the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. It's not like that. Final word from the Secretary of Finance. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will, of course, try to react briefly, although I think that we will discuss a whole series of these things in line with the 2020 budget. All of these things have been discussed on committees where I go either personally or by the Deputys, but I will try to respond. I'll take it one step at a time. To President Kalousek. Of course, it's gonna be the theme of the 2020 budget, so we're gonna have to say it a lot today during these long hours, but I would respond to the resilience. Resistance of the budget to any recession, or he even used the word crisis. I do not know how the surplus of the budget reduces the resilience to the crisis in 2018, but in any case, if I am to respond to the quote from the Supreme Audit Office's report, when they compare the resilience of those years in 2008, 2009 with the current situation, I would just like to say briefly that the evaluation is based solely on the assessment of the cash state budget, that is, not on the evaluation of the entire public finances based on the methodology of the European system of national and regional accounts. Since the entire public finances in structural terms in 2008 and 2009 were well below the medium-term budgetary objective, then the structural deficits were minus 3,2% to 4,2% of GDP, while the Czech public finances were structurally surplus in 2018, showed a surplus of 0,4 % of GDP. [[There's noise and restlessness in the hall!]] [[9.50 hours]] To Mr Ferjenčík, or perhaps, if someone else has said it here, I will respond to the individual points as I made a note. The third and fourth waves were missing from collection, so VAT collection was lower. At that time, we predicted and counted on the third and fourth wave, which remained here in the Chamber of Deputies for almost a year and a half. And, of course, our salaries went up, so there was a higher social security contribution. But EET affects all taxes, not VAT. And the surplus pension account. We do not have a pension account, we have a difference between income and social security expenses, and you have talked about a pension account and you have used the income from the National Property Fund of 18 billion, which is income from dividends from state companies, where we have essentially passed the amendment to the law and have incorporated it into the revenue of the state budget, which is decided by this Chamber of Deputies. Capital expenditure was incurred at 124 per cent compared to the budget and in the SAO's report they are discussed in relation to the final budget, i.e. not including all entitlements. Mr. Chairman Michálek. As far as performance audits are concerned, I would like to inform you that there is a project in preparation on which we will work together with the European Commission, where we have requested synergies in the preparation of the so-called spending reviews, and there we want those performance audits to be set up in cooperation with the European Commission. We talked about the clicking budget in connection with the Treasury. I have informed you that we have pushed through, and it has actually started to work since the beginning of this year, the possibility of breaking up from the Treasury to individual invoices. We're working with the different resorts, we've got that overview. Of course, your idea and ours are breaking up a little bit. You know that we've already met on this subject and that something else is the Treasury that we've presented to you, which was historically worth 7 billion, and that's what we're building on. So I'm sure we've moved on from last year's debate. As regards the drawing-up of the SIF fund, the situation has improved greatly. Every roughly two months, the ESSF Council, which is currently chaired by the Minister for Regional Development, shall meet as appropriate. We evaluate individual operating programs and drawdowns, if you like, I'll send you a table. We're evaluating this regularly. I don't have it here right now, but there's no problem, I can have it sent to me during the day. The improvement in the drawdown of the ESIF programme has clearly improved. So that clicking budget you're talking about, we basically have, I can send you a link. It's a monitor.mfcr.cz. As for the accrual data, we also have these, we use them for the entire public finances, and the Czech Statistical Office is responsible for their compilation. We use them not to analyse individual items, but to evaluate total aggregates, so from this point of view it rather uses the audit authority for its work. With regard to reform and any connection to labour taxation, you know that I had once had a super-gross wage lifted in the legislative process, then the entire reform that we worked on with Minister Adam escaped unstandardly and died before she saw the light of day. At the Coalition Council, we are dealing with this problem, and of course, we have it in a government statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u17	Thank you, Minister of Finance. [[Member Michálek is reporting for word.]] Given that there is no interest in the final word from the rapporteur, I will not begin a detailed debate or give Mr Michálek priority for one simple reason, because the President of the Republic is expected to appear, and I will interrupt the meeting by 10 o'clock for a few minutes. Then you'll be given the floor, Mr. Chairman. [[Member Michálek continues to claim his word.]] Not at 10 o'clock, after the President's speech. [[Mr Michalek argues that this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure.]] This is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure. I have an express written opinion from the President of the Republic that he will be performing at ten o'clock. I've had the Secretary of Finance finish her final words. Trying to make a different interpretation you can, you might as well ask me to withdraw from the proceedings of the meeting. I'm interrupting the meeting within ten o'clock until the President of the Republic arrives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I inform you that in a few moments our Chamber of Deputies President Miloš Zeman will be visiting our Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u19	Dear guests, allow me to welcome the President of the Republic of Mr Miloš Zeman and give him the floor. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u20	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable Members of the Government, honourable fellow Members, like every year before you, I come forward to express my opinion on the proposal for the most important law of the year, that is, the State Budget Act. We discussed this law in my expert team with Minister Schillerová and members of the expert team with the economic erudition are the Governor of the Czech National Bank, President of the Chamber of Commerce and President of the Confederation of Industry and Transport. On this occasion, I must highly appreciate both the Minister's economic erudition and the diplomatic championship with which she has dealt with the various ministers. On September 16th, I made my remarks to the government. Well, now you have me here. I would presume that if the Chamber of Deputies passed the bill, I would sign it. On the other hand, friendly criticism can be a criticism. And that's what you're about to see right now. I've divided my performance into three parts. Firstly, the external conditions of the budget, secondly, the problems of inefficient expenditure, and thirdly, the proposal to obtain new revenue. So let's start with the external conditions. Business or customs war is raging in the world. The war between America and China, between America and the European Union. But in addition, there is another factor that, for reasons of political correctness, is not mentioned too much, although it can explain many of the halting of Germany's economic growth. Energywende, a turn towards particularly expensive sources of electricity, has led to Germany's most expensive electricity price in Europe, and the planned decommissioning of power plants has already been reflected in the German economy's zero growth. I am saying this because I would like our country not to be caught up in similar climate madness and to realize that our energy mix is designed in such a way that only 3% of the production is solar power plants, 47 percent is coal power plant and 35 percent is nuclear power plant. So much for outside conditions. I think that our dependence on Germany can partly compensate for the diversification of our exports to other territories, especially where climate alarmists do not have much on rose beds. So much for the first part of my show. Part two. I keep pointing out that, thanks to Topolánkův's government, we are carrying with us a backpack of renewable subsidies, especially solar resources. Only the Minister of Industry has 27 billion crowns in his budget chapter for this purpose. What would be done in return? Twenty-seven billion crowns. Well, what about it? There are several solutions - solar tax, reduction in purchase prices, overcompensation. Minister Havlíček will now negotiate with the European Union and it could bring about several billion savings. However, it doesn't change anything. If we hadn't fought against these expenses, then, in theory, it could have lasted for 20 years. And I don't think our economy needs to be burdened in this way, especially when the price of solar panels has dropped to one tenth. So they basically go into the pockets of solar barons who are happy with one of the tunnels in our economy. The second topic I would also like to talk about is the topic of savings on state officials. I'd like to commend Secretary Maláčová. Is he here? [[He's turning around.]] He's here. Hello. Which abolished a fund of in-service training, which had 600 employees, so that these 600 employees could be employed in the private sector. Bad language says, Madam Secretary, that you took them back, but in our last meeting, I confirmed that this was not the case. I wish even in other resorts it were possible to abolish the funds for further education, which one of you has heard about it. Typically a parkinsonian institution that feeds on itself. Well, 600 people, that's a lot. And I recommend using what already works in the banking system, so-called, instead of clumsy and high spending on information systems. A robot, which is a computer algorithm that can serve a client. In the banking system, this has already saved the workforce. [[10.10 hours]] Well, I could talk about other things like welfare. I am of the opinion that those who refuse the job should not receive any benefits. Let's see how this phenomenon develops. The Minister informed me that after three months of exemption from registration, an extension of this deadline is being considered to be eight months. At least something. Finally, I would like to say to you because criticism is nice, but it must be accompanied by a positive proposal that the Czech economy has a reserve of CZK 318 billion. Sources are. But these resources would only be achievable if all tax exemptions were abolished. I fear that for each of them there is a lobbyist group that will fight, but I say that, like any energy source, it should have a level playing field and therefore it should not be subsidized, so also as far as tax exemptions are concerned, so be aware that people who pay their taxes properly pay them. Minister Schillerová has already announced publicly that she wants to abolish some tax exemptions to the extent of several tens of billions of crowns, and I warmly welcome that. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that I fully agree with the position of this Chamber of Deputies on the fight against the Kurdish nation against the Turkish occupation of its territory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for speaking to the President of the Republic and we will continue with the negotiations that we have interrupted, with a debate in detail on the State Final Account, with a prior right to the President of the Pirate Club, Mr Jakub Michálek. Before I give you my word, I will ask the Minister of Finance and the rapporteur to take their seats at the rapporteur's table. In the meantime, he'll calm down the O.R. so you can have room for your performance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u22	Thank you. It will really be just a brief remark. I would like to thank the Minister for the communication she made with the European Commission on the spending reviews. I think this is a very good initiative that I support. I welcome the fact that the Minister has promised to send the tables. I'd like to ask if she could at least give me a chance, maybe. other Members who will be interested to send information on the state of the depositing reviews, the tables they promised, and some more detailed written information on the matters I asked about, including reference to the clicking budget, including invoices. I know that various ministries have published invoices on their website, but I'm not quite sure the last time I looked at it, it was connected to the MONITOR system, which, I agree with you, was absolutely unnecessary because now I know that when the clicking budget was implemented at the level of the capital city of Prague, it was completely different, completely different orders of money, how much it was spent. However, I understand that there are, in particular, methodological changes to the Treasury regarding the submission of information, the introduction of new standards, etc. So I'm gonna ask for the written information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u23	Thank you. I now have the rapporteur on board in a detailed debate. I have no other application for a detailed debate than the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Madam President Miloslava Vostrá. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u24	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I, if you don't mind, will refer in a detailed debate to the motion for a resolution, as I have read all of it here, adding that four fellow Members have spoken in the general debate. So I refer to the whole text of the motion for a resolution, as I have already read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-23-ps2017-035-06-001-286.u25	Thank you. Anyone else in the detailed debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for final words. No, Madam Secretary, neither does the rapporteur. We can therefore vote on the motion for a resolution, as read in the detailed debate, as presented to you in a written document. Does anyone want his repeat? It's not like that. We can therefore decide by voting on the State Final Account for 2018. We will decide in the vote number 152, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 152, 183 for 97, compared to 30. The motion was accepted. I note that the State Final Account for 2018 has been approved. Thank you, Madam Secretary, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 286. The next item is:
