ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and methods of its resolution (Insolvency Act), as amended /German press 71/8/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 71/9. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Anna Kubáčková among us. I ask the plaintiff to comment on the resolution of the Senate and on the amendments tabled by the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, Madam Senator, I will be very brief because we are returning to this proposal repeatedly. During the last discussion of this proposal by the Chamber of Deputies, a relatively convincing majority of more than 150 Members adopted the text, which the Senate then adopted several amendments to, and you are now faced with a decision whether a Senate version will be adopted or whether a House version will be adopted, hypothetically, whether no version will be adopted. I say for myself, and it is also the opinion of my colleagues from the Ministry of Justice that it seems more appropriate to us the version over which we spent hours and hours of time. The version approved by the Chamber of Deputies by a convincing majority, because otherwise it addresses the issue of debt traps in a satisfactory manner and at the same time, and that is quite essential, is motivating for debtors and is not unfair to creditors. Motivating for debtors is that they are essentially indirectly forced to engage in a transparent economic process to try to earn and pay off their debts. For creditors, then, it guarantees them that at least part of their debt will be repaid. At the same time, I would like to point out that the House of Approved Version does not mean any significant increase in the administration of the courts, on the contrary, there have been approved a number of matters relating to the trial before the courts, which should be more seriously removed from the courts. Furthermore, I note that the proposal does not contain any percentage threshold expressed by the debt ratio, which should be a condition for someone to achieve their debt relief. Sometimes there's talk of 30 percent, but they're not there to say who doesn't pay 30 percent, they won't be in debt. They are only there to determine the extent to which the court will prove that the conditions of debt are met. Because he who pays more than 30 per cent will be given a legal presumption, a rebuttable legal presumption that he has fulfilled the conditions of debt relief, and for those who pay less than 30 per cent, there will then be more extensive evidence, but it will be based on what will in principle be known to the court from the previous - usually five years. [[16.00 hours]] What the amendments adopted by the Senate bring. They certainly were guided by a good idea, but not everything was able to express completely from the point of view of the normative text. Question number one: does the Senate's amendments bring down the courtroom? Well, not in my opinion. Because at the end of the debt relief process, the court will have to decide whether the debt relief conditions have been met. This means, purely mathematically, the number of court decisions to be issued does not change. So the fear that the House version would overwhelm the courts, and vice versa, the Senate version is a decoy, is odd. On the contrary, an even bigger idea can be assumed for the courts, and then, of course, the Senate version can mean a greater burden on the courts. Second assumption: increase of legal certainty for debtors. The Senate has approved the amendment, as a result of which it falls short of the court's obligation to examine at the end of the debt waiver whether the debtor has made every effort to repay his debts, stating that the court should examine it over the course of five years. Yes, that's right. The court should examine it correctly, and it will certainly do so over the course of five years. However, there may be an extraordinary circumstance that only at the end will it turn out that someone was hiding their income, that he was working black. Should such a person be in debt, or should the debt be abolished and the proceedings stopped? Answer each other's questions. Furthermore, the Senate version suggests adding to the law the definition of so-called dishonest intent. This means an intention for someone to enter into debt with some unfair intentions, which in principle was what a priori followed the caselaw so far. However, the definition that the Senate added to the bill again in good faith is that it poses a relatively significant risk of closing the debt relief system for a number of debtors, because the dishonest intention is defined there so widely that it can really affect the majority of debtors who are going to seek debt relief. What's going on? The point is that in dishonest intent, anyone who has committed actions in the past, at any time in the past, prior to the approval of the debt relief itself, may show signs of harm to the creditor. And frankly, if anyone gets into a debt trap, before they go into debt, they're always trying to find ways to get out of this trap. And those paths can often be guided by reasoning at the expense of creditors. This means, what should have strengthened legal certainty, in my view, actually brings about relatively large, large legal uncertainty. For all these reasons, following a rather thorough analysis of the proposal, the Ministry of Justice, as a petitioner, has taken the view that the House version seems more appropriate. Maybe I'll mention one more thing when I say that the House version is advantageous for creditors. The joke is that, according to the Senate version, creditors don't have to get a crown. While the debtor will be obliged to finance the costs of insolvency proceedings during the period of ongoing debt relief, if I say so in a very simple manner, to maintain the insolvency administrator, the creditor will not see any of it at all. And then there's actually a system for a system that's only advantageous for one side of the liability between the debtor and the creditor. And yet those creditors aren't just bad loan providers. These may be landlords, they will very often be municipalities, they will be debts for waste, they will be transport companies. They may even be the ones to whom the damage was caused by the debtor to be replaced. I believe that the original proposal, which assumes that the debtor must be able to repay to his creditors the amount corresponding to about a thousand grand a month, is proportionate to the benefit he will receive at the end of the debt waiver. His life situation will be completely economically rebooted, he will start with a clean slate without debts, and it will only be up to him if the previous proceedings have affected him sufficiently. And in my opinion, it can only be educational if he realizes that debts have to be repaid, and so if the creditors themselves have something to do with it. For all these reasons, please support the House's version of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek and ask for the floor of Senator Hubáčková to give her opinion of the Senate. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u4	Good afternoon. Mr President, Minister, honourable Members, you have received an informative report from me on this law, on the insolvency law in which I introduced you to the hearing. Indeed, the Senate approved the amendments that I am coming to defend, quite - out of 74 Senators present 63 votes - so relatively significantly with great support across Senate clubs, and was led primarily by an effort to open insolvency proceedings to the widest possible number of debtors, which are almost 900 thousand or even more in the Czech Republic. This is to be done by removing the 30% threshold for assessing the final termination of the debt relief process after five years, as it can become a brake and enter the insolvency proceedings for some people as well as a demotivative element. Another problem seen by the senators and discussed within the Senate is the compulsory payment not only to the insolvency administrator but also to creditors. This was also considered unacceptable by the Senators - in the discussion we had such an expression or attitude that this too is an item that may prevent some from entering into insolvency proceedings. Because basically the minimum of life is another limit and they have very little left to live, more to live than to live. Of course, there is evidence of the section on honest intent, intention. Of course, it is important to be able to interpret it correctly. However, it should be directed on the contrary to some greater certainty of creditors. So I think I'm gonna give you some space, and I'm not gonna steal your time, and I'm gonna ask you to agree to the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, Senator Anna Hubáčková. We will now continue and ask whether he wants to comment on the Senate's amendments to the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee of constitutional law, Jan Chvojka. Yes, he does. And my colleague Bauer, if he wants to express himself as a rapporteur? No, he's gonna use the gig. The rapporteur, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would also like, perhaps relatively briefly, to comment on the amendment to the insolvency law, which we will vote on now, or in a few minutes or tens of minutes, depending on how many people will join the debate. We'll decide between two versions. Of course, the one is the House, the other is the Senate. [[16.10 hours]] First of all, I would like to say that this amendment to the insolvency law has been dealt with here for practically two years. Because that last year of the House's last term of office was the same amendment put into the legislative process. I was the Minister of Legislation back then. The Minister of Justice was Mr. Robert Pelikán. Unfortunately, this amendment was submitted so late in the previous term that it was no longer possible to discuss it within proper or standard short-term periods. Therefore, Minister Pelikán of the time has basically submitted the same amendment again on the beard, and we are now only, after a year or almost a year, deciding whether the House or Senate version is better. In that year, I think we've discussed the novel from top to bottom, left to right, right to left. This is very detailed, whether on the floor of the Constitutional Committee, on the ground of the subcommittee on execution and insolvency, or right here at the plenary of this honourable House. This amendment was discussed not only on the premises of the House and in its bodies, but also at various colloquials, at various meetings with experts, with insolvency administrators, with creditors, with debtors, simply at various seminars where this issue belongs, of course. Let's remember, or let's say, because that actually starts with why there was a need to amend the insolvency law. The insolvency law came into force 1. 1. 2008 and, in my opinion, basically the crucial thing, or at least the most important thing to me then 11 years ago, the whole new law was the institution of debt. That's the institute that gave and gives a chance to many tens of thousands of people to get out of that executional hell, out of that executional carousel by entering into debt. By the end of 2007, people who were under a mandatory execution, or God forbid multiple executions, have often not been able to get out of those executions. Just 'cause there wasn't a debt institution. And if these people weren't able to pay off their debts in execution as far as the principal is concerned, they were getting interest, interest on interest, and basically owed up to death in some cases. From 1. 1. 2008 has dropped this and the person who proves to meet the conditions - this is the check on entry - will fulfil the conditions in the sense that he will prove that he will pay at least 30 per cent of his claims for five years and will do so differently, whether the employment contract he has with his employer or the pension contract he has, for example, signed with his parents or a combination of such evidence, so if he proves that he will pay at least 30 per cent of his claims for five years, he is allowed to enter into debt. Unfortunately, in those ten years, it has proved that even under these conditions and in a condition where debt relief has helped tens of thousands of people, for example, single mothers or single seniors do not get to this institute. And for a very simple reason. They just can't prove, or they can't prove, that the income they have is going to pay at least 30% for five years. Therefore, the leitmotif of this amendment is to open up an institution of debt for more people, that is to give more people a second chance. We've been dealing with this novel for a very long time, as I said at the beginning. I am glad for the work that has been done, and I thank the Ministry of Justice for communicating with us and trying to work on all our comments. Well, it turned out that at the end of October last year, I think we approved the version that went to the Senate and that is coming back today with the Senate's amendments. Unfortunately, I can't - and I have already protested this on the Constitutional Legal Committee when the law was being discussed, and unfortunately for me, the fundamental amendment that I will be talking about has been approved, so for this reason I will not be able to support or support the Senate version first, and if it is not approved, it will be the House. And I'll tell you why. The amendment was approved, in simple terms, one plus one, which the leitmotiv, or the motto of the amendment, gave more people a chance to open the door for debt relief to a larger group of people, so he unfortunately accepted the amendment, which was approved by the Constitutional Legal Committee - and I was against him along with Kateřina Valachová, plus the pirát were against him at the time, otherwise everyone voted in favour. So I think that the amendment, in simple terms, one plus one is closing the door again. One plus one means we're going back to the Act of Bribery to control the entrance, even if the check at the entrance should fall off. And the entry check means that the debtor must pay the remuneration to the insolvency administrator and at least the same amount to the creditors. In my opinion, this well-intentioned idea - because I understand that if we only support insolvency administrators, that we feed the system and we don't have any of it - this could be done in a completely different way in my opinion. For example, the insolvency administrator would have half of what the debtor would pay. If the debtor had just paid the $1,000, the insolvency administrator would have $500 and we wouldn't be shutting anyone's door like that. That actually killed the whole leitmotiv, the whole motto of the law. That's how we killed what the law originally wanted. Because the open door that a member of the ANO movement came up with, by the way, or nominated for the YES movement, Robert Pelikán, so we slammed the open door with this if we didn't slam, so very strongly. From this title - we discussed it this morning at the parliamentary club, from which the ČSSD MP will vote in favour of the Senate version of the law, and, of course, if it does not pass, we are glad that we still have at least the House, which, of course, also corrects certain steps. And we will vote in favour of the House, if necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u7	I thank the rapporteur Chvojka and open a debate in which I have two priority applications and five proper applications. Now with the priority right of Tomio Okamura, Mr Jan Farský will be prepared with priority right. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the amendment of the insolvency law in any direction that will help to dedebt our citizens. The original government proposal had our support, albeit with reservations. Unfortunately, the House has added other negative changes to the government's proposal, so it is a good thing that we can renegotiate the law, even though we do not take illusions and expect to find a majority willing to solve debt traps from the ground up and systemically. The principle of this law should first of all be to get citizens out of debt traps and return them from the grey economy back to the system. The goal is to help people who commit desperate acts in debt, often also criminal, suffer and break up families, commit suicides. The aim of this law is not and must not be to enrich any professional group. And the proposal that left the House, which means a government proposal, was already scandalous in that it provided a truly privileged business for insolvency administrators. In this respect, we have the exact same problem as with the bailiffs, with the fact that the insolvency administrator has a far more secure business by law than the executor. The Act gives him a guarantee of profit by the State, if any, paid or paid 50,000 profits and another 50,000 billed costs. We and every normally logical person have a different opinion. What the debtor primarily repays must be debt, and not that for years he has been paying off the costs that someone is charging him, and the debt remains the same. In this case, the victims are both debtors and creditors and the only ones who collect billions per year are bailouts, insolvency administrators, selected lawyers and debt traders. In our opinion, the executor and insolvency administrator's profession should be performed by state judicial officials on a standard salary, not on a percentage of remuneration, which, moreover, takes precedence over debt repayment. [[16.20 hours]] Taking the percentage of man's property in a debt trap that he often doesn't even have for food is primarily taking the fat percentage of property that belongs to damaged creditors in justified cases is against all good morals. It is also against these morals that 21 percent of VAT is also being cut off by the state. First of all, when paying back, which the law requires, both insolvency and civil, the state of the creditor. More specifically, the creditor to whom the debtor owes the principal. On the contrary, judgments, periodic penalty payments, interest on interest and all the additional charges should not go until the last row. Where appropriate, they should be abolished or suspended by law at least when the court decides on the order of payment, execution or insolvency. Let me make it clear why I'm mentioning this. Due to debts to banks, loan providers, state authorities, and other creditors, more than 863 000 people were executed in the previous year, more than 70 percent of them face two or more executions. Half of the executions were due to the amount of less than CZK 10,000. Most of the debts were thus mainly additional costs, fees, interest and late payment fines. Many people were then indebted, for example, because their income had fallen in their illness or because their partner had not paid them maintenance. Many of the debtors are even completely innocent in the debt trap. For example, the partners of gamblers, drug addicts, or the people who were put in the debt trap by the bailiffs for insignificant amounts. There is no state without guilt, nor can it protect the justice of citizens who cannot defend themselves and, of course, parasite themselves in part. Whether in the form of VAT on insolvency and execution, perhaps sometimes excessive penalty payments for the taxes due or premiums that bring the debtors to the ground even more. The bailout map also shows that there are underage children in some municipalities up to a tenth of the population with execution. Reason doesn't answer, but where there's no sense, apparently the executor is without shame and a judge without reason. A judge who appears to issue a payment order on a minor child. Thousands of people have been trapped in a servant's trap by unprecedented recovery of claims from actual but also alleged black passengers. Most of the people who lost their IDs. Bus fare executions were a huge lucrative business years ago. From several hundred ticket tickets, the final sum was climbed to hundreds of thousands of sums thanks to the fat refunds for lawyers and bailouts. We've already changed part of it. [[unintelligible]] For example, the merger of claims and judgments. But the consequences are still here today, because people in overpriced executions have taken on more loans, lost their property, and their entire families have fallen into poverty. She benefited from this unethical practice e.g. Tessile Ditta, which imposed fines on the Prague transport undertaking without a tendering procedure until the court prohibited the payment of high compensation. I will remind you that the principal of such debt was e.g. 12 kroner for ticket and 200 kroner fine. But only for a letter they charged 4,000 crowns. The bailiffs then bet tens of thousands for each execution separately, and if there were real estate auctions, it was hundreds of thousands to millions. The state damaged hundreds of thousands of people and deprived them of property, a roof over their heads, and often drove them to suicide. In future, the solution should include an amnesty on interest interest or on the aforementioned penalty payments and fines to the State. The insolvency itself should be entitled at least once in a lifetime to anyone who applies and its termination should depend solely on the extent to which they pay their principal debt, except where the court decides that the debtor has deliberately, fraudulently, failed to pay their debts. The order of repayment needs to be changed. The first money should go to debt redemption, not to the remuneration of the insolvency administrator, and it would be right to simplify the process in such a way that the insolvency administrator's remuneration is sufficient in the case of the lowest claims of a thousand, not tens of thousands, as it is today. It is necessary to simplify the process in such a way that the insolvency administrator's remuneration is sufficient in the case of the lowest claims of the order of a thousand. Not as it is today, when percentages of property are paid to tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, sometimes millions, and therefore insolvency proceedings become more business than execution. From our point of view, there are two models. First, nationalisation of insolvency administrators and their work on a standard salary. As I was saying, the SPD also promotes the nationalisation of executors. Secondly, or a reduction in remuneration to a reasonable level by abolishing percentages of remuneration and introducing flat rates from the operation. We can be inspired by the Slovak model, where the poorest ones have a ceiling of EUR 550 remuneration for the trustees, and this money will lend the claimants for insolvency to the State Legal Assistance Centre, with the payment of the debt due within three years. At this point in the SPD, we are preparing a law that could govern a similar institution in our country. It is part of our agenda, which calls for an enforceable right to justice for citizens. Since its inception, the SPD has perceived and promoted the right to justice as a fundamental human right. All fees, periodic penalty payments, fines and interest should be stopped at the moment the court receives the execution or insolvency. The parameter that would make it more difficult to de-debt according to the new rules is the principle that ANO Members have put into the amendment. The point is that the court will not be able to repay anyone who, in addition to the remuneration of the insolvency administrator, will not pay the same amount to the creditors in a legal amount of CZK 1 089 per month. ANO members will probably thank insolvency administrators, but the aim is not really to give economic security to insolvency administrators. Let us repeat over and over again: the goal is to get desperate citizens out of a debt trap. In such a way that, on the other hand, they will pay the most of the eligible claims. The House also agreed, among other things, that the debt will reach the debtor, who will pay at least 30% of the claims within five years. If it succeeds, the insolvency court shall decide, after the end of the five-year period, whether the debtor has made any effort to repay the debt. If so, the court will grant the debt. This leads to uncertainty throughout the process. Some of them could have paid back five years, but the court would not eventually have debted them with reason that if they had tried harder and, for example, gotten a better paid job, they could have paid an even greater part of the debt. In addition, some experts believe that if the courts decide differently in these cases, the debtors may move where the judges are milder. In the extreme case, this can also lead to insolvency migration, when people will move to nicer judges, Radek Hábl told the public media the author of maps executions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u9	I thank the Member and Vice-President Okamur. Now, Mr Jan Farský with priority rights as chairman of the club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me turn to you on the one hand with the position of the STAN MEP and, at the same time, before the final vote on the insolvency law, he tried to convince you of the benefits of the Senate proposal from my point of view. And I'll tell you about the arguments that I think would be a shame if they didn't. At least I'd blame myself for not trying my best around this proposal. I will not discuss in detail the draft insolvency law, but I will really just focus on the details that are between the insolvency proposal that came from the Senate and the proposal from the Houses. As has already been said here, there has been an adjustment in Section 412a, where it is determined how the debt relief will take place, so the senators have adjusted it in a way that 30 percent, which would be a rebuttable assumption for a five-year debt court, were released by 30 percent. Not without a replacement. That is the difference, and quite distinct, compared to the amendment of the law that I presented here at second reading and which we voted on. I admit that at the time it was significantly stricter for creditors and perhaps even more disadvantageous. But what the senators did is that they also turned the creditor into a party to the proceedings for five years, and he can at any time, as an insolvency administrator, argue to the court that this debt is somehow... Or that he's being cut short on his rights, that he's not being honest about the debtor and that his personal bankruptcy is to be terminated. In this case, the position of creditors has been strengthened, as it has also come to the satisfaction of debtors. They've reached their entrance, so they'll get a chance. And they have reduced the time of uncertainty in which they will be moving for five years before the court's decision on whether or not they are actually in debt has been reached. [[16.30 hours]] Why the uncertainty of five years? Because in the course of this procedure, the insolvency administrator will monitor them and will be able to inform the court, but in the end, the court will pay back what percentage it will pay, even fifty, so if the creditor's proposal comes, he believes that there has been some reduction on the basis of the data and this debtor has not acted honestly, whether he has withheld some part of the assets, or not. that he made false statements, or that he acted recklessly, carelessly, or that he didn't take the best possible paid job, so at that moment the court, whether he paid back 40 percent, will have to judge this situation. After five years, when the man will live on the edge of poverty for the minimum income he will have left behind and lose the property he had until then. Try to put yourself in that situation. It may seem like a small number to us for five years, but remember where you were five years ago, what you were doing, and the last period of five years, play it down to the fact that you lived really little and lost your assets and at the same time lived in uncertainty about whether at the end of your debt relief will be over or just go back to recovery. The Senate proposal's working it out. The Senate proposal says if you commit any violation of the rules, you'll be fired for the first year. If the creditor says so or if the insolvency administrator says so, the court will intervene, you won't wait five years for that decision, but you'll get it right away. It is therefore also more advantageous for creditors. I see this whole Senate proposal as more favourable to the state. And in this favor, it meets at least in the part of how many people we return from the grey economy and from those beneficiaries of benefits to those who pay some taxes, so in this, the House's proposal approaches. In my opinion, what is a little bit better is that someone will not pay himself as debtor for five years if they simply break the rules in the first year and the creditor points it out and is released. Nor will the court be burdened with one-off, because if it enters debt relief - and I assume that this is the wish of both the supporters of the House version and the Senate version - if several tens of thousands of people enter debt relief, then after five years, tens of thousands of people will decide at about the same time, their situation will be assessed, their situation will be assessed. And, of course, further decision-making will delay the court at that point. What the senators have also added is precisely the definition of dishonest intent, so that they give guidance to the court, but also to creditors, in which one can go through debt and when one cannot. The debtor pursues dishonest intent, in particular - the example is therefore demonstrative - unless he has indicated a significant part of his assets in the asset list, if, in the context of insolvency proceedings, he knowingly provided false information, if he has withheld any of his income or is trying to pursue a regularly reasonable occupation, or if his conduct prior to the application for a waiver permit can be considered as wanting to harm his creditors. I'm not making anybody specific right now, but I'm praying for our company that's sick. In a situation where half a million people, 500,000 people are trapped in debt, and even if they've done what they can their whole lives, they'll never get out of it, and they won't pay off their debts, so what kind of incentive do you think they have to even start paying back? I'm afraid it's absolutely minimal, rather zero. If they get that hope, they'll see the light at the end of the tunnel that if they live really under strict supervision for five years and in pretty bad luck, so that they can get a fresh start, there's a chance they'll try to get out of that gray economy, not just the beneficiaries of benefits, but maybe they'll become tax payers, and they'll do something to their creditors. I am convinced that this is why creditors will make money on the Senate proposal. It's gonna be made by owers. He'll make a fortune on them and the state. And I'm convinced the whole company will make money off of it. Because if we have half a million people out of the system who don't believe in institutions who don't believe in a democracy that freedom has brought nothing but responsibility that they unfortunately couldn't deal with and ended up in a debt trap, it's not just that half a million people, it's really at least 1.5 million people who are hit like that. Of course, these people raise their offspring, raise them in a situation and an environment that quite invites them to repeat these errors and not to trust the system at all. We are not dealing with prevention at this stage, although it is of course extremely important, as financial literacy is extremely important. We're putting out a fire that's raging. And the more of those who want to get out of it, the more we give them the hope that they can get out of it, the better for the whole company, and everyone makes a living. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u11	I thank Mr Farský and now in the debate Jan Bauer, who is duly signed up, will prepare his colleague Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to briefly comment on the two amendments made by the Senate in the current amendment to the insolvency law. I would like to say that, as you know, the Civil Democratic Party of the insolvency amendment as a whole did not support the Chamber of Deputies. At the time, we in the House of Deputies explained carefully why we voted in this way. At the same time, however, we participated in debates in subcommittees, in committees, and in some of our view, we supported positive and beneficial changes, or even actively pushed for some. Despite all our reservations about the final form of the insolvency amendment and the questions that hang over its application in practice, I personally see it as a compromise and have said so many times on the subcommittee's floor. In any case, this is a better option than the original amendment submitted by former Minister Pelikán. I personally see improvement in the fact that it has managed to get insurance policies into the law, which, when the conditions for debtors are significantly mitigated, also thinks of creditors at the same time. Perhaps someone sees an insolvency amendment as a law on the social support of debtors. But there's no way this is an insolvency amendment. Yes, on the one hand, it is intended to allow a new start for people, which has already been said many times here today, who are unable to apply their total debts, but at the same time should motivate them to pay off at least part of these debts to creditors. In other words, the insolvency amendment is not only for debtors, but also for those who have to accept that, as creditors, they have irreversibly lost their money. And for the record, let's say that they are often involuntary creditors, such as cooperatives and associations of owners, or even municipalities that create claims for the provision of public services. The Senate is proposing to cancel some of these insurance policies, which I am very sorry about. While I understand the motivation of the senators, who thus respond to pressure especially from non-profit organizations, I do not think that their solution is right or better than that of the House. In the case of the first change in entry into debt, I ask: is it really desirable for the law to make it possible for some people to remain in debt for a few years just to pay the compensation to insolvency administrators? If the answer is no in this case, then it is clear that the changes to the House version would have to be far more complex and much more consistent than the simple release of several sentences that have taken place. [[16.40 hours]] In the latter case, in the case of changes at the end of the debt relief process and the release of the rule so called. rebuttable legal assumptions, we have two different perspectives here for a change. He's already mentioned the minister here a little while ago. According to the Senate's supporters, the whole process will be simplified. The Ministry, and we have a letter at our disposal that has been written by the relevant Ministry and sent to the senators, warns against the effects of this change and the deterioration of the situation for debtors. And I would like to say that I will in no way be a judge in this argumentary dispute. Unfortunately, these uncertainties continue to raise the questions that we have asked from the outset as a right-wing opposition and increase our doubts about the impact of the insolvency amendment either in one or in another form into practice. Therefore, I ask how many new debt relief rules will really help people, how many speculators will be attracted, whether they will lead to more responsible debtors' behaviour, or, on the contrary, their irresponsibleness will increase, how they will handle the insolvency trustees, how they will handle the courts and, above all, how much it will cost. I would therefore like to conclude by recalling again the tasks currently received by the House Committee on Social Policy, if I have the correct information from the Senate, by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And I am glad that my colleagues in the Committee on Social Policy also supported this proposal. First, within a year of the law's effectiveness, submit the number of debtors who have entered debt relief under the new rules, the characteristics of these debtors and the average amount of their debts. At the same time, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should evaluate whether, following this law, debtors are able to receive debt traps and return them from the grey zone and the dependence on social benefits to active and economic life. That is exactly what the government has promised to submit an insolvency amendment, and it is therefore its responsibility whether this will actually happen in practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u13	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we see this law primarily as a means of dealing with the situation of people in debt traps. In the Czech Republic there are 900,000 people in executions, of which somewhere between 150,000 and half a million have debts that are extremely difficult to pay back, almost impossible in their situation without entering the personal insolvency process. And that's why we support this Senate proposal that expands the number of people who can enter it, precisely because every person who gets out of a debt trap and gets into a normal economy, so the state makes a lot of money on it. Just for every person who is in debt trap today and has no incentive to make money and lives in fact in complete resignation from social benefits, so when we get some of these people into normal work process, so also a person on a minimum wage in the Czech Republic will pay about CZK 60,000 in taxes and levies per year. So if we're talking about tens of thousands of people, the revenue for the state goes into billions. And at the same time, of course, the impact on the lives of those people, whether their families, their children, their prospects, their view of the rule of law. We simply believe that every debtor we manage to get into a normal system is beneficial to the state. And five years on minimum income is a long enough time for us to make his mistake in quotation marks. Just when someone made a mistake, they were recklessly indebted, and unfortunately there are cases where people fell into a debt trap completely uninhibited, like secondary insolvency with entrepreneurs, when some big fraud didn't pay off invoices, so these people have outstanding debts today, so we have such stories here too, so if the five years actually live on that minimum amount of money, it's perfectly adequate for us not to continue to be punished. This is our way of saying that we want to get as many people out of a debt trap as possible into a functioning economy. That's why we support the Senate version of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u15	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Mr Jan Čižinský, now. Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words for the KDU-ČSL club. This is one of the most important votes in this House, covering hundreds of thousands of creditors and hundreds of thousands of debtors, but it also concerns trust in the rule of law and trust in democracy, because it is debt, debt traps, unfair execution, that has been what has put many people's trust in the rule of law and trust in our democracy. I will just say that we consider the Senate version to be better than the House and that the House version to be better than the current one. The Senate proposal is better for creditors because it is better for creditors if there is as much insolvency as possible. In insolvencys people pay more, those debtors pay more creditors than in executions, even though we are aware that this number will fall, because now there is a limit of 30 per cent, but if we take the current situation, the debtors will pay 18 to 30 per cent of the claims, in insolvency mode on average 56 per cent. I know it's going to be 56 percent. But even if it goes down a third, it's still going to be significantly more than in executions. That means the Senate proposal is better for the creditors. It is also better for debtors because it gives them certainty about the process. And it's also better for the municipalities and the state. If the debtors grow old, the municipalities will have to take care of them and are already taking care of them. And the grey economy, of course, is damaging our entire state. I can't agree here entirely that the 1+1 system is a system for the system. There are many debtors who have little children. If these kids grow up, they go to kindergarten, the guy can start working and he can start paying back, and not just paying back the insolvency administrator. Moreover, let us note that the creditor will not be helped if the debtor lives life in poverty. That's not gonna give the creditor a dime. As far as debtors are concerned, the debtors will get the certainty of the trial and know what's going to happen for the five years. But we'll know, too. The current House version has a certain degree of uncertainty about what will happen in those five years. And we can all find out in five years that we made the wrong decision today. Five years is a long time. And we really need to know what's going to happen in those five years for the people who decide on insolvency. The situation of creditors and debtors is very serious in our country and the Senate proposal deals with it better. The more successful insolvencys take place, the greater the hope that trust in the rule of law and democracy in our country will return, both for creditors and debtors, and for people who are now looking at these processes. We will therefore vote in favour of the Senate version. We're hoping he'll pass. If it fails, we will, of course, also vote in favour of the House. And let me thank the Senate for giving us the opportunity to vote once again on this standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u17	Thank you, Mr Čižinský. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher. Mr Marek the Výborný will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I have so many notes that it might be here for an hour, so I'm not gonna hold up and try to telegraph it. When I listened to it, maybe we can even agree on everyone who talked here today, at least here, I don't know how in the Senate, on that target. Maybe we can agree on that. This means helping as many debtors as possible, I supply those who want to be helped, who really mean it, who are willing to do something about it. But help at the same time or not to block and harm serious creditors and return those people from that grey zone to the official zone to pay taxes, pay social and health insurance. [[16.50 hours]] But perhaps we, colleagues, will disagree on the way to this, and I think that the original phenomenon is the degree of disinterpretation of the individual proposals. In my opinion, this is such circumstantial evidence that when you want to manipulate someone, the one design somehow irritates and gives the other one qualities that he doesn't have. I call this the Dalmatian world, the black and white world. The Senate version will help debtors and help the system, while the House version is not like that. The House's version will overwhelm the courts, but the Senate's removal. And then when we go into those guts, we find that it's not even close. I am pleased that we agree at least on the minimum that even the House version significantly changes the situation very significantly compared to the current situation. And if we look at some of the things that have been said here, even in the House version, creditors can now make proposals for cancellation, of course, which means that it is not that the Senate is going to the creditors. It's not. That's already in the House version. Even in the Senate version and in the House version, those courts can review it, and I am even afraid that there will be more creditors in the Senate version than in the Houses that will demand termination of insolvency. And I'll tell you why: because we have to look for the motivation on the debtor's side and the creditors' side, but you're only looking for it on the debtor's side. What incentive will a creditor who knows in advance that he will have zero or almost zero or positive zero have to participate in this entire situation? Well, at that point, of course, he'll have zero motivation because... He's gonna try to interrupt, put it in court, and at that point, it always goes to trial. The courts will be overwhelmed, at the end and during. The House has been working on this for, as it was said, a year. I think that, at the end, there was an agreement in principle for almost all members of parliament, and there were a number of amendments that took into account the balanced position between the interests of debtors, creditors and the state, after all, in a few weeks the Senate has made changes which, according to the description of some Members, are just revolutionary. But he said it nicely by colleague Bauer. By removing two paragraphs, by adding one new one to another, the logic of the matter will not be entirely different, saving the standard. That's not possible. It has a number of conventions, a number of other influences. From this point of view, I am a little sorry about the Senate's actions, because, in my opinion, if there was an honest effort to find the solution, they will invite Members from the Sub-Committee on Enforcement, who have dealt with it six, five, seven times, after four hours, to invite the authors of those amendments to listen to the original and not to misinterpret what that paragraph means, to invite the rapporteurs there, while we are now in a position that is clear, according to the Constitution. Either we vote in favour of the Senate version or we vote in favour of the House. Even if I admit that any of these Senate proposals may be heading in the right direction, there is nothing I can do about it, because we can accept either the House or the Senate. But even that could have been prevented if the communication between the Senate and the House had worked here. And I'm sorry. I think it's completely out of place what the debt is, and I think it needs to be underlined again. Debt as a personal bankruptcy is more likely, to say the least. It's actually the result, let's say, of the functioning of a civilized society that gives people who have gotten into it, often not guilty, but often guilty, that again, let's not be the black and white world, that we make debtors innocent victims and debtors predators, sometimes that's the case, I admit it, especially from those cases from the past, not the present, but sometimes that's not the case, so the motive of the debtor should be the possibility of debt, i.e. The very possibility that he'll start again because otherwise he'd be in it for the rest of his life. Nobody wants that. I do not agree with the fact that the debtors will speculate at a time when they will not be unconditionally guaranteed to be indebted. Nobody's got that guarantee. What's the guarantee these owers have today? What guarantee do creditors have that they get something? What kind of notion is that someone has to have something guaranteed in advance? We completely forgot about the original plan - it's that there's a personal bankruptcy, somebody's in a difficult situation and they've got a chance to debt out, and we as politicians, like the state actually decides for the creditors: creditors, you erase part of the claim. Now I speak for the serious creditors. I'm sure no one suspects me defending any loan sharks here. And I think this has completely disappeared, the motive for it: I'm going into debt, I've got five years to reboot. And all of a sudden, it's become, like, an obligation, and we're already taking this as automatic, and we're just softening it up. I think that this will not only damage the creditors, but also the debtors who pay today and today do their best and live from paycheck to paycheck. And how do they come up with that? They pay off their commitments, but there's a way to do it when I say it euphemistically, softer. I don't think the novel itself makes a whole. The whole thing's doing what's left of it. Here, I'd like to remind you of two things. The first is an increase in the threshold from which the entire amount is deducted for creditors. Today, in simple terms, about 15,500, don't take my word for it. The Ministry of Justice is preparing a change that would increase the amount of an uninhibitable minimum to double, so from the border of approximately 25 000 crowns the entire amount would then be deducted from creditors. So 10,000 would go up, which is parallel to that -- and that's the motivator, that's the motivation for the borrower to make more money, because we all feel that when someone makes 15,000 or 25,000 and stays in his wallet anyway, that motivated to find a better job isn't. It's obvious. Besides, he's here, and he can work with her, the Ministry's decree on the insolvency trustees' remuneration. That's a thing that's not part of the law, and you all see here that's such an extensive standard that we've been talking about here for a year. Here, if we make a change and we want it back, it's gonna take another year, while the decree can be made more or less now. And that brings me to the ass bridge of the so-called 1+1, what the rapporteur here was talking about by colleague Chvojka. I thought when he was fixing it, he knew exactly what was going on. [[Is he reporting?]] Because that is my amendment. I mean, that motivation was pretty clear. It was pretty clear that the creditor would get at least as much as the insolvency administrator would get, otherwise it's all totally fucked up. We're gonna create a system here where we're gonna owe the debtors, socially secure the insolvency trustees, and then if he makes his way to the creditors, that's vis maior - we'll see. It's not fair. You must all feel that. But I didn't say it was a thousand crowns plus a thousand crowns, as it is today. I was saying that at least the minimum that an insolvency administrator gets should go to the creditor, and I hope that at least that's what we all agree on as a principle, otherwise it's the system for the system. [[17,00 hours]] We're gonna feed those middlemen, and if anything goes on, we're gonna let it go. That's because the Senate proposal releases this. But this can easily be resolved by changing the decree and changing the remuneration of insolvency administrators in those cases where, for example, the person is sufficient to repay his liabilities of 2,000, 1,500. And at that point, if the reward is reduced in proportion, that condition will be fulfilled. But at least something's gonna work out for the creditor. And with this - in the current state, it could mean that the creditor isn't gonna get a penny, or if it's enough to pay that person 1,200, the insolvency administrator has the 900 plus VAT and the - how many? - 100 crowns goes to the creditors. Is that fair to you? Not to me. Not to me! So much motive for the so-called 1+1. And now one thing, and that's where I see the way. We talked a little bit about it on the subcommittee. That's where I think it went under the table pretty soon. I'm sorry now. Maybe it was my fault too. We should have talked more about it. And that's because we're talking about debt here that's accumulated from the past. I'll remind you of some changes. From 1. 12. 2016 applies the Consumer Credit Act, which very limited the behaviour of predatory credit institutions. Of the 60,000, it's reduced to some 107, when I looked recently, it's controlled, registered with the Czech National Bank. They must have a core capital of at least 20 million. The fact that they themselves have to examine quite in detail the credit of the person they lend to, and if they do not, it becomes the condition that only the principal can return to them, and only according to the debtor's ability, i.e. they lose interest, accessories, etc. That means the law is very consumer-friendly, and it cultivates the environment. He's cultivating. The reward of the executors went down, the nonsense like referee clauses disappeared, and all the things where everyone on that system parasited, which was bad, which I hope we can all agree on. But that's the thing last time. So I see in the future that we are able to distinguish the borrower of 2016 and before that, the debtor that arose by taking some debt from the predatory institution, from the debtor 2017, 2018, 2019 etc. And that's the difference. For me, the Senate version, although I can say that the senators might have been trying to find a way, is creating a moral hazard for the future - for me - from the fact that it is possible to avoid the debts, especially from the point of view of all the new debtors, not the past. And I think that's very dangerous for creditors and honest debtors who wouldn't have thought of that. And I know that there was a proposal of the ODS to change the rules by the very limit of 1. 12. 2016, and perhaps the debate, as well as the debate that took place in the Senate, may call for this to happen. Let's talk about this in the future, but let's distinguish it, because that time is somewhere else. We are between years, say, 2010 and 2019, so here we have adopted several standards for consumer protection, banking clients, etc., which level up the environment. That means today the situation is completely different. But we're gonna accept something here that's gonna be valid for the past and for the future. So I have to say, I support the House version. I'm not resisting any improvement in the future, but the discussion we're having here, so if it's going to be like this between the two chambers, then it's supposed to be before the final vote, and not after it's actually in the "take or leave it" phase. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u19	Thank you. Mr Holík, Mr Ferjenčík, will also respond to the factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me, through the President, respond to Mr Farský's words that those who are in debt are incompetent. I'm gonna tell you my story, but he's gonna be longer, so then I'm gonna ask you again for a performance. I've done business in the past. We had a business. When we had nothing, we worked together, there were five of us. When the money came up, the feuds started, I left the company. At that time, my associates bought some 200 grand worth of merchandise they kept, sold it, but when they split it, they said, "Let me pay it," I said, "let them pay it, 'cause they had it." It's been dragged around for about five years. The amount grew to almost a million. And it happened that one day, my lawyer's mother died, she didn't come to the trial, and I got paid for it. I had a blocked account, so I had to borrow money, put it on account, went into profit, and I paid another 150,000 turnover tax and another 150,000 health insurance. I finally sued this lawyer, I won the trial. She was supposed to pay me back that amount, so it looks like the fairy tale had a beautiful ending. But the lawyer was more or less defending herself that she had nothing, so I handed this claim over to the executor company Vrána. This firm confiscated her house, sold it, but the result was the one, because I wasn't the only one who cheated like that, that in the end the proceeds were barely enough to pay the company Crow, and I paid about a million plus the other 300 grand that were there. So that's how people get into debt, into debt traps.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You made it in two minutes. The following are the factual remarks made by Mr Ferjenčík, Adamec, President Bělobrádek, Mr Čižinský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u22	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna respond to that 1+1 note and what the creditors are supposed to get. The basic problem is that in the current situation they get nothing from those debtors in a debt trap whose income doesn't actually cover anything, no fees, maximum something sometimes gets an executor. And creditors are getting nothing today. That's the reality. And the moment they enter that insolvency, by opening it up, they have a chance at least to get something. I understand, you'd rather not have an insolvency administrator. Unfortunately, the Senate filed it the way he filed it, and it's important for us to get these people into insolvency, and then there's a chance they'll pay the creditors something. I'd also like it better if there was, as Marek Benda said, a 500 and a 500 creditor, and it would gradually grow to some limit for the insolvency administrator. I'm afraid that's not what it's designed to be. But it's a priority for us to get these people out of the state where they don't pay any debts, to a state where five years that's on minimum income are owed by the state and then they normally get involved in the economy, they normally start paying taxes. From a state point of view, it's much more appropriate. One final point. As far as the future is concerned, I think it is reasonable for creditors to pay attention, to take great account of the situation of the debtors, and to check how it all turns out, if the debtor can repay it. So when the rules are tightened from the point of view of the creditor, of course, the institutions they lend are under more pressure to control the credit of clients and not to rely on the fact that the state will eventually recover for them. Which is also a moral hazard, by the way, when the cost of enforcement is paid by the state and the proceeds are made by private entities. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So there's two sides to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u23	Thank you. Mr Adamec, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u24	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I will only briefly respond to Mr Nacher. You know, I'm an ex-senator, so I just want to say a little bit that the Senate's work is a little different, that the Senate is actually dealing with what we've been working together for, like, that year, and they only have 30 days. But it is also true that we have certainly criticized earlier that it would be worth communicating with each other at times, and especially if there is something like this where the debate is going on, there are a number of opinions, and those opinions are being refined, so that there is a consensus. [[17.10 hours]] I must agree with the honourable Member that the Senate version is worse for me, and it is precisely what he said that there is a threat that the only person who will actually make money on this will be the insolvency administrator. This reminds me of a long time ago when we as a city participated in various insolvency and insolvency proceedings. Most of the time, it turned out that the state had achieved what it needed from the proceeds of the property when there was one, and everyone else was sharpened except the insolvency administrator. And that those insolvency administrators did it in very different ways, that's also true. But that's the dark age of insolvency, I don't want to go back to that. But I think that if we don't want to be morally gambled, we can't say that the debtor is a star and the creditor is just something else, that's the horrible person that needs to be punished. I don't think they're just those loans, those quick loans, when you come to the mall and there at the stand, they just pay you money, they give you a contract that you can't read without glasses, and maybe without dandruff, it doesn't work like that. Let us also take the view that we, as cities and municipalities, have debtors, and put us in a situation where we cannot recover debts, because all the rewards simply fall to the insolvency administrator, so it is not okay. [[Vice-President Fiala, time's up, Mr. Ambassador.]] Yeah, well, I'll check in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u25	Thank you. President Bělobrádek, with a factual point, followed by Mr Čižinský, also with a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I would just like to add the words of my colleague Čižinský. I think that both proposals are a move for the better, and I think that there has been quite a lot of work done here, and that the House version is a shift. And I think it was often said in the debate that it is not, that it actually remains exactly the same, and I think it is not correct. However, we have, in the end, largely agreed to support the Senate version, because even those from the nonprofit sector who work with the people who are trapped prefer it. But even this Senate version is obviously not perfect. So I think I can say for myself that if the Senate didn't pass, I'm ready to vote in favour of the House, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u27	Thank you. Mr. Čižinský. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u28	Thank you. I'd just like to say that we're talking about moral gambling for the future, but we're dealing with moral gambling from the past. And that was a real moral gamble that brought hundreds of thousands of creditors to the fact that they are not being repaid to almost nothing, and hundreds of thousands of debtors to the fact that they simply do not believe the law and the system, because they have often actually gotten very unfairly into those debts. It is, of course, very good that the culture of the environment is now under way, it is good that there is a cultivated debate going on here. On the other hand, I was really very careful and did not say here how the House version is better. There was only 1+1, but here, if I really were to follow up on my previous speakers, who would help if someone couldn't get into insolvency simply because income is so that it is not able to put aside, say, two thousand or in case of adjustment of a thousand crowns. Who can he do that to? It's not gonna help anybody! It doesn't help a creditor, it doesn't help a debtor. But we know who's gonna get hurt. It will harm our state, and it will harm our communities, which will then have to take care of those debtors to the age. And I'd like to hear it again, the Senate version better describes what's going to happen. The House version is five years of uncertainty for us, for us as a society, five years of uncertainty about what's going to happen in those five years. As for the dishonest purpose, for example, we will know very quickly if dishonest intent is good or misinterpreted, whether it deserves any adjustment or not, because the courts will be able to deal with it now, whereas we can actually find out in five years that we have made a mistake here. That's why the Senate version is better than the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u29	Thank you. Mr Výborný will now be speaking in the debate, Mrs Langšádlová will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u30	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would like to, and I consider it important, also comment on the amendment to the insolvency law as chairman of the guarantee subcommittee, i.e. the subcommittee on enforcement, insolvency and debt relief. We have actually taken this job seriously, and we have met quite unstandardly at the time of the return of this press from the Senate with amendments and today's discussion. We considered it important to meet at least over the Senate version, discuss it, and also share the views of the various parliamentary clubs. So this also happened here. I'm just going to try to sum up briefly, but everything here is crucial and important, so I don't want to prolong it. Yes, the fact that we are here fighting literally and into the letter with pandemics, we all know that, and not just us here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but it is repeatedly mentioned in public space. The fact that we want to address the situation as well, I think it is obvious too, and I am a little sorry about what has come about since we approved our House version here, when we really created a kind of black and white idea of adopting something wrong, imperfect. Sometimes it only made the impression that we actually made the situation worse and that the Senate is the chamber that needs to improve it now in any case. If you recall the third reading of the amendment to the insolvency law, I was here pointing out that the result that was adopted here, of course, is not ideal. There are things in it that would still need to be adjusted, there are things in it that, paradoxically, could have led to, for example, narrowing the throat at the entrance to personal bankruptcy, but the fact that this is a huge shift, so there can be no dispute. And we adopted an amendment that had some basic parameters, and I strongly recommended in negotiations with the Senators after approval in the House that the amendment should not be changed in the basic parameters, because what I said here a year ago, when we started to discuss the amendment at first reading, my ambition and ambition of many other Members, and we made sure of it repeatedly on the subcommittee, was to adopt a balanced solution. I am not deliberately saying compromise because there is already a feeling that there are two parties to the dispute, but a balanced solution from which debtors will benefit in the finals, a solution that will respect the legitimate rights of serious creditors, and a solution that will, of course, benefit the state. This must also be stressed. The Senate went the way he made his decision, and I respect that it is, of course, a souvenir, a sovereign chamber that has the right to go the way of adjusting the basic parameters. Personally, I do not think this is entirely happy, although I stressed in my dealings with the senators that if, for example, the Senate went only by releasing that parameter of Mr Nacher's amendment 1+1, that I was prepared here on the ground The Chambers of Deputies support this solution because it is there and can be justified concern that some groups, whether seniors or others, might not get into insolvency in the finals. Unfortunately, the Senate went in its modifications beyond just this one parameter. For this reason, I really believe that the House version is more balanced. It is, ladies and gentlemen, essentially two questions. The House's version and, in general, the amendment to the insolvency law, she and the Senate version of course, strengthens the role of insolvency administrators and strengthens - and this House in this sense more - the role of insolvency judges. And maybe it's about some kind of basal trust in how courts will decide and how insolvency administrators will actually deal with debtors, because it's crucial. If we want to bring this debtor to the finals of personal bankruptcy, when it is returned to the system, and that is what we all want, I am deeply convinced that this is the case with senators, Members, as well as those who are very well-served in the work with debtors, then it is really about how, in turn, these institutions, administrators, we will or will not trust the judges, and that is also about the degree of certainty or some uncertainty. [[17.20 hours]] Of course, it's also about whether the court is really going to perform the role of confirming the personal bankruptcy at the end, or when it becomes some kind of automatic machine that will only confirm yes at the end, it hasn't been canceled. Personal bankruptcy has not been abolished during this period. So now it's up to us whether, as the House, we will lean towards that version of the Senate, which is certainly also for the benefit of the cause and is a significant help to the whole system. But please, and this is how I would like us to be able to communicate to the public, even if the House version is adopted, so it is not a step backwards. It's a significant shift. And we are opening, whether Senate or House version, the door for those who are in those debt traps that we primarily want to help. Yes. The whole thing is about trusting in the rule of law, trusting in democracy. But it would be very unfortunate if, based on the accepted version of one or the other, people were to be demotivated and terrified of anyone entering the process of personal bankruptcy, because that would actually take our job and throw it in that basket. That's just the way it is. And if we don't want to let this happen, whether the Senate version or the House version is accepted, then it is our duty, and it is also the duty of those who are in the whole system, or the aiding organizations, it is the duty of those who defend the interests of creditors, it is the duty of the judicial authority, the Ministry of Justice and others to put trust in this system, the system that will somehow be set up today, and maybe it will not be entirely ideal, but it will be set up, and anyway, it will always help those debtors so that we can publicly say that. My colleague Patrik Nacher here, and I would like to stress this, mentioned that the novel itself is not self-saving. Indeed, it is necessary to perceive the other accompanying measures. There's one on the way. I am glad that we have also been able to communicate this on the subcommittee. Thank you, Minister. The question of increasing the amount of the uninhibitable minimum. It's motivational, it's important to motivate these people not to be in the gray zone, to actually work. By the way, they will also avoid the danger if they are in personal bankruptcy, that they will be abolished, because when, of course, income black would be clearly, I suppose, indicated by the court as dishonesty, dishonest intent. It is necessary to have fun, and here I want to say, and I think it has already been said here too, is the agreement with the Minister of Justice that after a year after the amendment to the insolvency law, we will return to the topic of the remuneration of insolvency administrators. I would also be in favour of the system being an incentive for the administrator. So that the reward is not fixed as it is today, but that it is linked to how the debtor actually repays. This would, by the way, help to address the criticism of the 1+1 proposal here, because we would actually be able to get out of it. There is a proposal for an amendment to the Advertising Act in the House, where we propose restrictions on advertising on consumer loans with the exception of housing loans. It may also be - I have been communicating with a number of people in recent days, as well as from the nonprofit sector, who also advocated that, of course, the offensive advertising that we are exposed to today and daily, so it is in some way motivating for people who unfortunately do not have the financial literacy they should have to be subject to. It's a matter of debate, of debate. If there was a consensus here on the House's land so that we could discuss this law quickly, it is another of the accompanying measures of the entire insolvency law. And of course, financial literacy is evergreen, that's what we're talking about here, so I believe that even in this field, and not only financial but also social literacy, will succeed, this applies not only to school pupils, but also to seniors, for example, that even here, these things will be able to move on. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I stress - no matter what version will be adopted, I would like to ask you not to leave today with the fact that none has been accepted. That would be wrong. I believe that if the Senate does not accept the version of the Senate that moves the matter forward, as the Senate has concluded, more towards the certainty, to the certainty at the beginning of those debtors, or if it can accept the version of the Houses, I believe that one of them will pass. If there wasn't one, it would be really... it would be a bad signal to the public and to debtors. That's our priority, primarily. I trust all of us. And let's help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u31	Thank you. Mr Juříček will respond to a point of fact. After him, Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if I can convince you, but trust in society is about the level of justice. I think you'll find it hard to explain to those who already have debt, which is roughly 60,000, and roughly half of the pensioners have already paid off their previous debts. And it is important to note that Patrik Nacher and Taťána Mala, together with the President, have worked through the way that they have looked, including the InsolCentre, just who has already been indebted and who has not been, and have also looked at it through the views of European countries as they are. And it's important to remember that the 30 percent that you guys have here as a mantra, that's just the goal. And I did the analysis myself at my firm. Out of 2,500 employees, we have 178 people in execution. And it's consistent with the fact that the principal, which is actually the option, if it's not 30 percent, but it's going to be-- all the charges, the fig and the charges are going to be higher than the principal itself, so actually there's the variation of the principal. And then it's the third option, if no one touches it, or this, then the court can still decide that in the case of really very social factors - e.g. a single child with three children can be fully indebted. So please, the level of justice must also be said and signal the company that if I take the debt, at least let's say I have to pay the principal back. And if we do it in the Senate version, we'll actually say, take credit, take loans, and you won't have to pay back anything in the future. That's how the company translates it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u33	Thank you. Mrs Válková, with a factual point. Then, with a factual remark, Mr Veselý. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am very happy to perform when I can support and agree with the previous speakers. And there are two who have said very well, let's say, the risky places of our vote that will come soon. Mr Nacher and Mr Výborný. I have here a summary of the differences between the House and the Senate version that some non-state organizations have drawn up. I've studied it. And we can really choose from each version what irritates us most, and what we support. As Minister of Justice, I myself have encountered this problem as one of the tasks which I have failed not only because of the briefness of my mandate, but also because of the issue. And there's one thing I'd like to underline here. The worst thing that could happen to us is not to approve, which I hope will not happen to either version. And the other thing. The one that we will approve, and the tragedy would not be, nor would another, although I personally, after studying the arguments and after what the Minister has said, hopefully we will still be assured that he is serious about the remuneration of insolvency administrators, which is cardinal for the success of the projects in the future, so I think that the House version would be better with them, and I will also vote for it. However, then we should all, even those who opposed it and would prefer the Senate version, media and explanation. So I wanted to appeal to you in this spirit, because that will be our business card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u35	Thank you. The following will be the factual remarks made by Mr Veselý, Farský, Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I want to respond by your means to my colleague Juříček about the justice. How fair is it that there are people who just never have a chance to reach that insolvency? That's why we support the Senate proposal, or I personally, I don't say as a club, but I do personally, because it extends the number of people who can reach it. To give specific justice. You listed an extreme case of a man who is recklessly indebted. But marry an 18-year-old who wasn't 18 years old, and the first thing that comes to him besides becoming 18-year-old is a subpoena that he owes 80 grand because his parents didn't pay his debts. He's just never gonna have a chance to achieve that insolvency. I therefore support a Senate proposal that opens up a wider possibility for people to apply insolvency. Otherwise, I agree with the general claim that the House version is better than nothing, certainly, but the Senate version helps more poor people to get out of the endless debt spiral. And she's fair to me clearly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u37	Thank you. President Farsky with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u38	Mr President, through yours to Mr Juříček. I just think it's a huge mistake to say that it's a challenge to be indebted and irresponsible because it's just not. For one thing, not everyone's debt is debt. It's a court-martial. You have to meet the conditions you enter them. And if you're recommending to someone that he live deviously and then live on the edge of poverty for five years, and for the next ten years he was banned from debt, we're here in the 15-year period. If you want to give us the impression that what will become a hobby of some people, such irresponsible behavior, I really don't think it's a choice for anyone, and I'd be careful with these statements that might be able to mystify some people and get them into these problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u39	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Výborný after him. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u40	Thank you for the floor. He told a fellow Farský for me more or less. Just when the person has to sell all the property, five years to work and at the same time live on an insignificant minimum, there's no incentive to go into debt and not pay back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u41	Thank you. Mr Výborný with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u42	Thank you. I can't do it. With your help, Mr Veselý. Mr. colleague, you're right that this entry is different from the House and Senate version. But only by 1 089 kroner. So it's not that the House version doesn't let people into debt, into personal bankruptcy. He's letting go. The difference really makes CZK 1 089 including VAT. That's the difference. That's one plus one. And, of course, if there's a consensus here that we want to take this out of the law in the next few months, I'm not fighting it at all. In the end, I was the one who said if the Senate returned this, and unfortunately, we can't question the Senate version, so I believe that the House would be able to support it. That's all. So it's not that, according to the House's version, people don't go into personal bankruptcy and the Senate says they do. The difference is indeed CZK 1,000. That's one thing. And the other thing. Maybe good news for you. You mentioned teenagers who are in debt who go into life with an execution on their necks. This is a thing that is outrageous, immoral, and I personally have prepared the substantive intention of the amendment, which will deal with this so that we can deal with youth debt separately, and I believe that we will join together and support it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u43	Chairman Chvojka. He may choose whether to make a point of fact or with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u44	I'll be relatively short. I hope I can fit in in two minutes. I'd like to respond to a colleague of the Výborný. I do not understand this very much, because if I remember correctly, we voted as representatives of the ČSSD and representatives of the Pirates at the beginning of my speech, as I said at the beginning of my speech. This means, Mr Výborný through Mr President, that he wants to correct something he supported because he supported 1+1. I remember. I think it was a mistake. And secondly, $1,089 is a lot of money for someone. A thousand eighty-nine crowns can be the difference between the single child and one child getting into insolvency or not, because it turns out she doesn't have 1 089 times two, but maybe she only has 1,800, in quotation marks only, or it could be a problem for the lone senior, who just won't have twice 1 089, but she'll only have 1,230. And that's what I criticized at the beginning of my speech. This goes against the motto of the novel - opening the door to more people who are not going to get into debt now. I'm sorry, colleague, that you supported this 1+1 and now you're criticizing it. Because I remember. Only ČSSD representatives voted against, and to be fair, the pirát did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u45	Thank you. Mr Nacher will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u46	Thank you. I've been trying to be cultivated, and I'm taking to heart Mr Farský's words, so that we don't send out any information that isn't true, and that's not what we're doing. But the same goes for everyone to really stick to it. That means, let's say once again that the Senate, but also the House version, is a huge step forward. And now we're going to specify one plus one. It's all over the place. It's not true what my colleague Chvojka just said, that it's 1,089 times two and so on. This would apply at the moment when the amount of the remuneration of the insolvency administrator would be fixed. But as it was said here, a proposal has already been prepared here for fellow Pelikán and something will be prepared. This 1+1 means, if I had to explain it completely, I don't know how, illustratively, so it's the cost of transferring money from place A, that's the place of the debtor, to place B, that's the creditor, so that the money transfer doesn't get lost with the person who can pay less, more than 50 percent. That's what's so complicated about it. And that seems fair to me. That then B goes into that goal less, and everything can get lost on that road. That's the Senate proposal. That everything could get lost on that journey in the transfer of money from the debtor to the creditor. And I don't think that's fair. It's not fair either. So let's talk about motivation, about new motivators for the remuneration of insolvency administrators, let's talk about that so that they too can be motivated. And that's not just going down. This may also be upwards, but it is not true that it is unchanging, that it is 900 crowns plus VAT times two, and it is therefore frightening that no one will get there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u47	Time's up for a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. President Farsky with a point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u48	Thank you. To the 1+1 discussion, so that we do not succumb to the illusion that perhaps creditors will get more if there is 1+1. They're not able to pay back, they're not gonna get into that system, and even the people who are going in there today with that coefficient one, so let's tell them, with the reward of the insolvency administrator, they can bring some money to their creditors. And it's far more real that they'll pay off some amount if they live five years hoping to get out of debt and motivated to pay off the maximum amount than if they're not allowed into that system at all. That is why this part of the Senate proposal, in my opinion, is understandable and defendable and meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u49	Thank you. Mr. Kalousek's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u50	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been having a long discussion here, and I'm watching her very closely. I think we're able to agree on one thing. That we realize that we are talking about people who can never repay their debts, and that it is also not the goal of getting them to pay them back, but that the aim is to get them out of the grey economy into normal life and into a normal economy. That's the first target. However, when I listen to the arguments, I feel like we don't understand each other. I'll repeat one, Mr. Chvojka said it here. He said the senior woman won't have 1 089, she'll only have 1 230. It's hard to make a deal like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u51	Thank you. Mrs Langšádlová will now speak in the debate, and Mrs Váchová will prepare herself. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u52	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking everyone here who has been working very intensively on this subject for the past few months: Patrik Nacher, Marek Benda, Marek Výborný and Honza Farský and everyone else, because I think that you have done a great deal of work on this, and I am sure that you are responsible for this. I'm sure the basic premise also applies: debtors are supposed to pay their debts. I'm sure it's okay that we're talking about creditors' interests here, because they're supposed to get the money back. However, in the situation in which we are, when 860,000 people are in debt here, when when we take their family members, the problem we are talking about is estimated to involve up to one and a half million to two million people. There's ten million of us. This is a fifth of the citizens of the Czech Republic. So this does not only have the dimension of the relationship between the creditor and the debtor, but I think we are talking, and I believe that we are mostly aware of this, a very serious social problem. And, of course, it has several planes within the scope of how we can monitor the impacts, the effects of this fact, the effects of this phenomenon. It has an impact on the plane of political elections. When you look at the correlation between where people are most indebted and how they choose, you see that they tend more to extremism. It even has such a serious impact that some security experts are talking about a security risk to our future democratic development. Of course, it has enormous economic implications. Many have been said here, but I would like to say that a large part of those who today are the ones we are talking about, that is, those who are in debt are the beneficiaries of benefits, they are the people whose children often end up in constitutional education. And all of these circumstances cost us all billions of crowns. This means, not only do these people not get into the labour market, they don't pay taxes, they don't pay everything that everyone else does, but it really has extremely serious economic implications, but it already has the impact of security. And it threatens our democratic development. So I'm sure it's very good that we're paying enough attention. [[Permanent noise in the courtroom.]] I think we all know how the situation developed here, how there were several hundred non-bank financial service providers. We all know what the level of financial literacy is. We know the way the question of accessories actually looked here, and we know the examples where somebody owed several hundred crowns and the debt generated debts of tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands. I'm sure we've all met this. I would like to say that, apart from the children who are really innocent, and it is good that we find a way out for them, and there are an estimated tens of thousands of them among those debtors, so all those debtors bear their share of the guilt that they are in the situation they are in. But from a social point of view, we must look for a way out of this situation in order to return as much of them as possible to the labour market and to be indebted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u53	Excuse me, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u54	I'm sure a lot of things have been done in recent years. The costs related to debt recovery have decreased, the Consumer Credit Act has been passed, the Czech National Bank's higher audit role is here, and most of the non-bank providers have surely already disappeared. It's all good for the future. But the situation is still extremely serious, and we are faced with the basic question of how to get as many debtors to pay as much of their debts as possible, to get as many creditors as possible out of what belongs to them, and to get as many people who are in that debt trap back to work today, to pay taxes, to take care of their children, to have housing. And I think he's supposed to be our target. Like each of you, I have asked myself which of these proposals, and it must be admitted that both are the way for the better, more will meet these goals. And for me, we will better achieve these objectives by Senate proposal, because it is the Senate proposal that will actually enable more debtors to be involved, which will allow more debtors to be involved in the insolvency proceedings in the event that the debtor is unable to meet that objective or behaves unfairly, so it can be stopped. I believe that it is not the case that the Senate proposal is to be left aside from debtors and the MP creditors. I believe that the Senate proposal also defends the interests of creditors. And when someone asks me sometimes why I should actually be more interested in these questions as a right-wing politician - you know, it's that they are primarily right-wing voters, who actually delaying the solution to this problem, that we are in the state we are in, that right-wing voters will pay for it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u55	Thank you, ma'am. With a point of fact, President Chvojka is registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u56	I'd like to respond to President Kalousek if he listens to me... [[He's looking at Kalousek's MPs.]] Thank you, thank you very much. I have to respond. You said I couldn't understand. I thought I understood. I was talking about 1 089 plus 1 089, which means 1 089 times two. Of course, I know 1 089 is less than 1 230. Either we didn't understand each other, or I misinterpreted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u57	Thank you. I don't have another one registered for the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is applying. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. Is there any interest in the final words - Minister, Senator? There's no interest in final words. [[Challenges from the diaper for the chairman to ring the bell.]] Of course, I'd ring the bell and use the time to introduce you to an apology. [[Sounds like a gong.]] From today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes for working reasons from 17.20 to 17.45 hours. We will now proceed to the vote under Section 97 (4) of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Plot calls for check-out.]] There's an interest in signing off. You're all logged out. Please log in with your ID cards again. I will introduce you to the motion for a resolution. At the same time, I note that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the resolution. Mr. Chvojka is applying with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u58	So I'd just like to ask for a tiny, tiny, short break for a club meeting of five minutes max, which means five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u59	There was a request from the Chairman of the ČSSD Parliamentary Club for a five-minute break. I will comply with this request. I'm interrupting the meeting until 17.54 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 17.54 a.m., the break for the meeting of the ČSSD MEP has ended and we can proceed to the announced vote. I will introduce you to the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and its solutions, as amended, according to the House press 71/8, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 71/9." - [[insolvency law]] We are ready for the vote. There's a new application for check-out. You're all logged out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. I am now opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 17. 184 Members are enrolled, for 62, against 8. The motion was not accepted. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. We have the necessary number of votes set. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and its solutions, as amended, as amended, in the version in which the Senate was passed, according to the House press 71/8." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 18. 186 Members are registered, for 181, against no one. I state that we have adopted the bill. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] In agreement with the presidents of the MPs, I will not open another point now, because we have a firm information of the Government of the Czech Republic to deal with the crisis situation on the D1 motorway at 18 o'clock. That is why I am interrupting the House of Deputies meeting within 18 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-22-ps2017-026-01-002-002.u61	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the point firmly.
