ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u1	11. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of business regulation in the financial market /house print 398 - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I submit to you a proposal for an amendment to certain laws in the field of business regulation in the financial market. The reason for submitting this amendment is, in particular, to adapt the legal order to the European Union Regulation on the prospectus. The prospectus is an information document which is required to be processed in the public offering of the price of paper and the purpose of which is that potential investors have all the necessary information to decide whether to purchase the security. The legislation of the prospectus is still contained in the Capital Market Business Act, and the prospectus will be amended by a directly applicable European regulation. This adjustment should therefore be deleted from the Capital Market Business Act and some other necessary changes should be made to it. This amendment also amends the distribution of supplementary pension savings in such a way that it is no longer linked to the distribution of investment instruments under the Capital Market Business Act. This will allow a separate distribution of supplementary pension savings without the current need to be authorised by an investment intermediary. It is therefore necessary to adjust both the Capital Market Business Act and the Supplementary Pension Savings Act at the same time, while these adjustments must take effect at the same time. This amendment also deals with the long-disputed issue of insolvency of entities without legal personality, namely sub-funds of investment funds and mutual funds. It will be possible for insolvency proceedings to be conducted directly against a specific sub-fund or mutual fund so that the bankruptcy of such entities does not endanger their management or other funds managed by it. It is also proposed to make a number of other minor changes to the Bond Act and to the Investment Companies and Investment Funds Act. For example, the adjustment of the investment fund promoter is generalised, the ex ante review of the depositary for qualifying investor funds is cancelled and the tolerance of insignificant valuation errors is adjusted. As part of the preparation of the draft law, fundamental questions were consulted with a wide range of stakeholders, in particular the Association for the Capital Market, the Ministry of Justice and the Czech National Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u3	Thank you, too. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 398/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Jan Řehounek, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Ambassador, I can see that you are at the same time enrolled in the general debate, so distribute the speech appropriately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u4	Certainly, Mr President, I am acting as rapporteur here now, then I will turn myself in, virtually. I have already signed up as a duly debated debate. I would briefly just sum up the one - because I will not comment on the content of the House press, the Minister has commented on it here, I think very much, so I would just like to say that the first reading of this press took place on 24 April, where it was actually ordered, as you have already mentioned, to the guarantee committee, which is the budget which this press has discussed on 27 June and adopted the very resolution that I will now introduce you to. It is a resolution in the Houses of the Press 398/2. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Lenka Dupáková, Mr Jan Řehounek's report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the Government's bill amending certain laws on business regulation in the financial market (the House's press 398) should be approved in the wording of these amendments - so here I really want to quote literally: In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: I, paragraph 13, is new as follows: "In Paragraph 17, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following sentence shall be added: "The recordings of telephone calls and electronic communications records shall be kept by the securities trader only in the cases provided for in paragraph 2.' The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. The following point 14 is inserted after point 13 below: "In Section 17, paragraph 2 the first sentence shall be the words: "The entries referred to in paragraph 1 shall include entries' shall be replaced by the following: "A securities trader keeps records" and the word "records" is inserted after the words "calls" and the text is inserted after the words "customer guide" even if the purpose of a telephone call or electronic communication was to close a transaction or provide such an investment service, but this has not happened." In addition, the second sentence is deleted.' The following points are numbered. The resolution also includes point II - empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. So that's all there is to the presentation as rapporteur. I don't know if I can stay here anymore?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u5	Thank you. Stay. I'm opening the debate and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u6	Okay. Thank you. After all, I'd like to follow up on what has already been said here by the Minister. It is indeed an amendment that includes nine laws related to the issue of capital market business. The primary amendment really lies in adapting to the regulation on the prospectus, as has already been mentioned here. In short, I would like to comment on two of my amendments, which I have read into the system. The first is identified in the House system as 3307. I will only read the justification here, because the proposal itself concerns the provision of services to legal persons so that the company that provides them here does not have to have its registered office in the Czech Republic. This is because the proposed point 15 reflects the rule laid down in Article 57 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for investment services, according to which the right of free provision of services in the European Union without the establishment of a branch, respectively. establishment concerns services provided temporarily. As a general rule, establishment in the Member State concerned is required for a permanent economic presence, allowing better exercise of the rights of clients and better exercise of supervision in the place where the service is provided. However, these services do not apply within the European Union to services selected by large clients, so-called professional customers by law. In conjunction with the fact that the Czech Republic has not yet requested establishment at all in the area of investment services, it is reasonable, in my opinion, not to apply the requirement for services to professional customers, which are also state institutions, they are insurance companies, banks, because they themselves can qualify to assess whose services, whether and under what conditions they will use. Professional customers by law are essentially the financial institutions, but also the state, international organisations and large corporations that are not small and medium-sized enterprises. So that is actually the comment and justification of one of my amendments. I would also like to comment here on the amendment, which is in the House database for this House press under number 3449. It is a larger amendment, covering a total of 12 points from the amendment to the law. Point 1 - This is a correction in the implementation of Article 24 (2) of the Treaty. 9 the first paragraph of the MiFID Directive. The present text may have raised doubts as to whether only incentives which fulfil the conditions laid down in paragraph 3 are admissible under paragraph 4. I'm very sorry, for most of you, it may really be something that's very specific, but I'd like it to actually be heard here. As regards point 2 of Section 118 (b) of the Guidelines, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the As regards point 3 relating to Sections 159 and 159a of the Capital Market Business Act, it is merely a correction in implementation. Articles 4 to 176 of CRR 3 Act on Capital Market Business, it is again only a correction in implementation. As regards point 5 - Article 177 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that: This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 Capital Market Business Act - these are only legislative technical corrections. Paragraph 6 concerning Section 6 of the Bonds Act. In the absence of a database of corporate bonds at present - and here I will turn a little further away from that justification. Lately, even in the media, it has been mentioned several times that the bond market is not really regulated and that there are a lot of companies that issue their bonds on the market, and the protection of customers is very small, so it is proposed that every bond should have an identification mark under the international system of numbering the so-called ISIN, and this will facilitate its traceability and at the same time increase transparency. Therefore, here is proposed a change in § 2 para. Articles 4 and 9 of CRR (j) the law. As regards point 7, which relates to Section 77b of the Supplementary Pension Savings Act, where the diction of the "operation conditions' was not entirely unambiguous, the diction "conditions for the granting of an activity authorisation' would be more appropriate. Points 8 to 10 relating to the Supplementary Pension Savings Act and transitional provisions are only legal technical corrections. To item number 11 - this proposal, respectively. my amendment reduces the administrative fees for extending the authorisation to operate. However, as a result of delays in the legislative process, persons entitled to provide supplementary pension savings in 2019 will have to pay an administrative fee of the original non-reduced amount. This is proposed to compensate by this payment by extending the authorisation not by a year, as is standard but by two years. And the last to point 12 - because of legal certainty when paying administrative fees and extending the entitlement to activity, it is desirable that changes in the Act on administrative fees and in the Act on supplementary pension savings should not take place at the time when the administrative fees apply, i.e. between 1. 10. and 2. 12th year 2019. It is therefore proposed that these parts of the amendment should be effective on the first day of the following calendar quarter, i.e. probably 1. 1. 2020 and, if there is a significant delay, 1 April 2020. So much for me to comment on my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u7	Thank you for your comprehensive statement. Before I invite Mr Juříček, Mrs Balcarová apologizes to us between 17 and 19 o'clock on account of negotiations. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply to Amendment 3325, which applies to this press 398. In 2018, we are under Act No. 170 passed the law, which was relatively hard-born between the Czech National Bank, insurance companies, Ministry of Finance and consumers. However, it has continued to appear that there are certain market distortions, which is why I entered this situation, not only formally but in terms of content. This amendment is based on an agreement that remains between the Czech National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and the Association of Insurance Companies. I think it's about everything for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u9	Thank you, too. I'm asking if anyone else wants to join the general debate. Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u10	Thank you for the floor. It is one of the proposals where we implement European law into the legal order of the Czech Republic. I would like to ask the rhetorical question why we are actually doing this when we are living at a time when the Prime Minister is willing to declare on the House's soil that he is ready to violate European law. European law is part of the legal order of the Czech Republic. And I would like to see Members' attention that the Prime Minister says he is ready to give up the laws of the Czech Republic. I think the promise we have all made is that I pledge my allegiance to the Czech Republic and I promise to uphold its Constitution and laws. One more time, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic told the House that he was ready to break the laws of the Czech Republic. And the note didn't move. I think we should focus on this at least during the intercession, maybe it would be worth a separate point of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u11	Thank you. Anyone else reporting to the general debate on this point? If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask if the Minister or the rapporteur is interested in the final words. It's not. Nor have there been any proposals that we should vote on at this time. So I am opening the debate in detail, in which Mr Řehounek is the first Member to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I am only going to formally sign up for the two amendments that I have commented on here. These are amendments under headings 3307 and 3449. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u13	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr Juříček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u14	Yes, thank you. I also, once again, formally declare that Amendment 3325. As I have signaled, it is essentially an increase in consumer protection so that potential or existing market distortions cannot occur, as I have said. And it's mainly built on several paragraphs. I will not read them here, but there is basically an increase in the liability of insurance companies and an increase in the Czech National Bank's ability to supervise what is happening on the insurance market, so that they can intervene precisely in the case of certain uncertainties. I must say that the Insurance Association also agreed to this because it realized that not everything is completely kosher. And if there were any potential risks further, we could possibly proceed in the future to a full-scale harmonisation of insurance distribution, as is the case, for example. in Belgium. But for now, we wanted to keep this market relatively open, but with the possibilities of sufficient supervision by both the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-018-011.u15	Thank you, too. This was the last application for a detailed debate, so if no one else is reporting, I will end the detailed debate. Once again, I will ask whether there is an interest in the final words after a detailed debate by the Minister or the rapporteur. If this is not the case, I will end the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. And we'll move on. The next item is point number
