ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-003-041.u1	41. Government bill amending Act No. 551/1991 Coll., on the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic, as amended, and Act No. 280/1992 Coll., on Resorts, Fields, Corporate and Other Health Insurance Companies, as amended /Departmental Press 516/ - First Reading Under the authority of the government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, whom I ask to take the floor. Please, you have the floor. And I will ask the Chamber of Deputies to keep it down. I understand that there is a good uplifting mood here because of the fact that two important laws have been passed. But after all, it would be nice if you'd enjoy the elevated mood in the foyer so we can have peace of mind here. I thank you for our respect for each other, and we will have peace in the Chamber. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-003-041.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to present a proposal for an amendment to the laws on health insurance. The proposal responds to the decision of the Constitutional Court by the file mark Plénum US21/15, which, with effect from 1 October 2019, repeals a substantial part of the existing legislation on the method of occupation of health insurance institutions. Up to now, the Management Board of an employee health insurance company consists of 5 members appointed by the government and 10 members elected by the insured persons of that occupational insurance undertaking by employers and trade unions, the Supervisory Board of an occupational insurance undertaking consists of 3 members appointed and withdrawn by the government, and 6 members elected by the insured persons of that occupational insurance company by employers and trade unions. The Constitutional Court, in relation to the current legislation, has induced inequality between different groups of insured persons, since some of them are excluded from passive electoral law, thus they cannot be elected to the bodies of occupational health insurance companies. In the opinion of the Constitutional Court, this inequality is contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. [[18.40 hours]] The aim of the bill is therefore to establish a transparent occupation of the administrative and supervisory boards of employees' health insurance companies by maintaining, within the administrative and supervisory board, the appointment of a third of these bodies by the government, with the remaining two thirds of the members being newly elected from the ranks of employees' health insurance companies, that is to say, all insured persons. Each insured person will have the right to apply to the institutions of his occupational health insurance undertaking and to vote, i.e. to have an active right to pay public health insurance contributions to that occupational health insurance undertaking, whether as employers or as self-employed persons, even persons without taxable income. In short, all those who carry insurance premiums into the health insurance scheme. So they will newly vote for health insurance bodies. In principle, the proposal responds to this finding by the Constitutional Court and only means a minor impact on the public health insurance system, which will be caused by a slight increase in the cost of health insurance companies to implement the elections to their institutions. The amount is estimated in the order of hundreds of thousands of crowns per election and will be paid from the operational funds of health insurance companies. The proposal also envisages that those who will vote, which means they will have an active electoral right, so they will be able to join together again. This means that it will not be as yet that only one entity that pays a certain amount of insurance to the employee insurance undertaking will be able to vote, but the entities will be able to merge, and we are reducing the allocation to the contributions given to the insurance undertaking by 0.4 percent, which should simply mean that a larger number of entities will be able to participate in the active electoral right. Like I said, everyone can be elected. This proposal therefore responds to the Constitutional Court's finding. Without this proposal, it would not be possible to fully occupy the administrative and supervisory boards of occupational health insurance companies after the end of the current term of office. To prevent this situation, I ask you to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-003-041.u3	Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Kamil Farhan. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-003-041.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I follow up on the speech by the Minister, who actually summed up the substance of the proposal, I would just like to say the following. The proposal was discussed by the government at its meeting as early as 10 June this year. The government has passed this law to the House 19. 6. 2019 and the bill was sent to Members as press 516 19. 6. 2019. The Organizing Committee recommended 27 after its discussion of the draft law. 6. me as rapporteur. As a guarantee committee, the Health Committee has proposed. The issue of the occupation of employees' insurance bodies was discussed not only with the stakeholders concerned but also within the subcommittee of the Chamber of Deputies on Health. As the Minister said here, the current legislation was abolished by the Constitutional Court in October of this year. Although the elections to health insurance bodies will take place after the New Year or until next year, it is necessary to prepare this independent implementation sufficiently in advance in some way. The petitioner, the Ministry of Health, has prepared a solution that, from my point of view, is feasible in a short period of time for remedying this situation and, in my view, is fairer than the current system. The Minister also briefly described the proposal to adjust the authorisation process for health insurance plans and other documents relating to the management of health insurance companies. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-003-041.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate at the moment and with priority for the general debate I have the Vice-President Okamura enrolled. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-003-041.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Health proposes to amend the rules for the election of the management of occupational health insurance companies, and thus responds to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, at the initiative of a group of senators, has identified the current nominations for administrative and supervisory boards as discriminatory. The Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions and the Czech Medical Chamber disagree with the Government's proposal. According to them, the bill abolishes the participation of trade unions or employees in the management of health insurance companies and two thirds of both their board of directors and the supervisory board wants to hand over to large employers. The Constitutional Court annulled the part of the law which regulated the authorisation to propose candidates for administrative boards. According to the cancellation, candidates could have proposed trade unions and employers' organisations. In the proposed model, any insured person who demonstrates the support of at least 50 other insured persons of the relevant health insurance undertaking may run to the insurance institution. The right to vote has to be given a large number of employers and also the self-employed. They will also be able to gather together and also the CFI and persons without taxable income will be able to vote in the administrative boards if they join together and fulfil the minimum share of the premium paid. Employees in this model will not get the option to vote. According to the idea of legislators, they are represented by their employer. According to the cancellation, candidates could have proposed trade unions and employers' organisations. However, the problem is that the unions do not represent all insured people and, of course, employers do not. In order for the proposal to be fair, any insured person would have to have equal voting rights. The Ministry led by the ANO movement resists the fact that the employees are not entitled to any rights against the current situation and that the limitation of the role of trade unions in nominations results from the decision of the Constitutional Court. I am putting this all in order to compare the facts with what is the principle of the Constitutional Court's decision, and that is the fact that insured persons should decide on the management of insurance companies. And we are here when we have an existing elitist approach to democracy, when the chosen elites decide for ordinary people, and it doesn't matter whether it's the House or the insurance company. Why don't we give this right directly to citizens, in this case to all insured people? This is a fundamentally correct solution, which brings in the following point further printing and draft law, which gives all insured persons the right to vote directly for their representatives in the insurance company. But the government's proposal is different. And even this proposal, the other one that we're going to discuss, that means the non-governmental one, I don't see it as perfect, but I understand that it goes both in government and in opposition about the art possible. The largest insurance company on the market is missing from the bill - General health insurance. Since the constitutional complaint concerned industry insurance companies, the Constitutional Court decided to abolish the legal provisions relating to them. The general health insurance company seems not to be involved because it has its own law. But there's a big mistake if we say it's none of her business. It should also be led by representatives of insured persons on principle. They're paying for it. But I understand that the courage to touch the Ministry's VZP was not. VZP is a successful insurance company. I consider it to be an "A" in the market, and, on the contrary, we are in favour of strengthening the one insurance company, strengthening its role, where there should be the best one insurance company on the market, because health insurance is not a market. It's a tax, and here it's pointless for us, as for feudalism taxes, to snatch other intermediaries and collectors. It's more expensive, the existing system of more insurance companies, and it doesn't really bring anything because insurance companies have to provide the same benefits by law. So claiming that competition is a few extra multivitamins as a bonus is nonsense. [[18.50 hours]] On the other hand, if the principle is to be fulfilled that insurance companies are led by representatives of insured persons, then VZP is the first to be the largest company on the market. Or let's talk about a model where VZP will become a monopoly collector and distributor of insurance subordinate state. Now we have a model in between when the VZP is a really unmanaged missile, the leadership has no majority of the state, no partners, no unions, no employers. Because most of them are representatives of political parties. We could therefore talk about parliamentary party leadership. But even that wouldn't be true. I mean, the current situation, not the one we're proposing, of course. So even that wouldn't be true, because oddly enough, the government majority isn't at war with the general health insurance company's leadership, but government representatives are outvoted by their own deputies. On the one hand, it is good that the party spirit does not rule in the leadership of the VZP, on the other hand, even here representatives of insured people from the street would benefit. So, in principle, we are in favour of the proposed changes. But the fact is, they're just a step in the right direction, but they don't solve the point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-003-041.u7	Thank you. Mr Petr Třešňák is registered with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-003-041.u8	Have a good night. I would like to propose a procedural vote on the merger of the debate on the issues of the House press 516 and 479, because they are dealing with the same thing. In fact, Vice-President Okamura has drawn attention to some of the common features of these two prints.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-003-041.u9	Okay, I consider this to be a procedural vote that I will put to the vote. I'll check you out, of course, and I'll put you on hold so they can come... [[Gong.]] You're logged out, so please register. We will vote on the procedural proposal to merge the debate of the House press 516 and the House press 479. I will wait for everyone from the lobby to arrive, and I will have a vote on the merger of the debate. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 243, 135 Members and Members shall be registered for 108. [[versus 6]] The motion was accepted. I note that we will continue the merged debate of the House press 516 and the House press 479. In this merged debate, Vice-President Okamura reports with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-003-041.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already commented on the Government's bill of amendment to the rules for the election of the management of occupational health insurance companies, so I will now comment on the second parliamentary proposal for a change in the election to the bodies of professional insurance companies. Although he does not address the General Health Insurance Company, which is the largest on the market, the parliamentary proposal basically brings the right solution, i.e. a direct choice to the insurance institutions of all insured persons. It does not in any way call into question the State's right to participate in the management of insurance companies through representatives of delegated ministries that maintain the proposal. I understand that such a proposal will not please the government of the ANO, CSSD and KSČM movement, or large employers, and perhaps even trade unions. But I would not take that into account, because the functioning of insurance companies should first and foremost be enjoyed by insured people, i.e. those who pay for the insurance companies and their work. As we know, we have another bill here. That's the government guy I was talking about earlier, trying to solve a similar problem. I would like to say that no one can possibly rule out an action against the Constitutional Court for a government amendment to the Act on Branch Insurance, on that government proposal, because it does not yet bring a solution to the required principle of not discriminate against part of the insured. And since it really only fulfils the principle of the right to vote for every insured person, then I fear it is only a matter of time before we end up with the House having to accept the proposal for a direct choice. Which, of course, we, as the only party that promotes full direct democracy here, would be in principle welcome. I know that with delaying the right to vote directly, the Czech House has a 30-year successful tradition, I mean ironically. But I don't think this tactic will be as successful in the future as it was in the case of the constitutional right of citizens to decide directly without party intermediaries. I mean how the House persistently rejects the democratic bill on the referendum from the SPD. But back to this novel about health insurance. The bill submitted is the right basis for a second reading debate, I mean the parliamentary proposal, and best for extending the direct election of the insured authorities to the VZP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-003-041.u11	I thank the Vice-President. I apologize to the Chamber of Deputies for getting ahead of the events that await us here. Thanks to the adoption by the procedural vote of the merged debate, I formally interrupt the debate of the House of Press 516. Opening House Press
