ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 34th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. You all know it, I'm gonna sign you off and ask you to re-enlist to present yourself. I announce that with the replacement card number 10, Mrs Richterová votes. The reasons for not participating today were asked by the following Members: Jiří Běhounek - Venhoda reasons, Petr Beitl - health reasons, Josef Bělica - Eva Matyášová, Pavel Bělobrádek - personal reasons, Jan Lipavský - working reasons, Jiří Bláha - family reasons, Pavel Blažek - personal Špičák, Marian Bojko - health reasons, Lukáš Černohorský from 14.30 hours - working reasons, Alexander Černý - Lubomír Volný, Dominik Feri from 9 to 11 hours - Antonín Staněk, Jaroslav Foldyna - Ivo Štolpa, Stanislav Juránek - working grounds, Marian Jurečka - František Votava, Václav Klaus from 9 to 13 hours - working reasons, Jiří Kobza from 9 to 11 hours - Zbyněk Stanjura, Martin Kolovratník from 9 to 11 hours - working reasons, Czech Republic From 9 to 11 hours - working reasons, Jan Vondrák, Robert králíček from 15 hours - working reasons, Jana Levová - family Miloslava, Jan Volnýý dolý dohodní pracní - working Valachová, Zuzana Ožanová. There were further apologies. Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologises from 9 to 11 o'clock for personal reasons, from 9 to 11 o'clock she apologizes to Mrs Lucie Šafránková and for work reasons he apologizes for the morning meeting of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. They apologize from the members of the government: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Richard Brabec from 9am to 11pm - working reasons, Richard Brabec apologizes from the afternoon meeting for work reasons, Jan Hamáček apologizes from the morning meeting due to foreign travel, Karel Havlíček - foreign travel, Vladimír Kremlík - foreign travel, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - foreign travel, Robert Plaga from 10.30pm - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons, Adam Vojtěch from 9am to 11pm - working reasons. With the replacement card number 12, Mr Bartoš votes. I would like to point out that it is possible to submit applications for oral intervention within 11 hours at the latest. Then there will be their lottery draw. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 316, with the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Opening point
