ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u1	31. Government bill amending certain tax laws in the context of raising public budget revenues / House print 509/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, whom I hereby invite. Before the secretary's place, a case of glasses was found. There's glasses inside, that's what they look like. [[He's pointing.]] Brown, bony - lost and found. If anyone recognizes the glasses, they're here on my chair table, either right here with me, or who's gonna chair the meeting. Thank you. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Let me briefly mention, as part of my second reading, the draft law amending tax laws, in short, the tax package for 2020. The main objective of the tax package, which is why the Minister of Health also sits with me, is to increase the protection of citizens against addiction to addictive substances and gambling and reduce the harmful social effects associated with these addictions, with the help of changes in the taxation of tobacco products, hard alcohol and gambling. The consumption of addictive substances has not only negative effects on the health of the Czech population, but also represents a high economic burden for public budgets and consumers themselves and especially their families.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u3	I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. If you are still debating the previous point or something else, please leave the O.R., discuss everything in the lobby and don't force the Minister to scream at you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We know from professional studies that alcohol costs 59 billion worldwide. annually, smoking even exceeds 100 billion. crowns a year. Higher taxes can not only increase the revenues of public budgets, but also motivate consumers to reduce consumption, thereby reducing the related health problems. The package of laws also changes the creation of technical reserves of insurance companies in order to set a more objective criterion. For tax purposes, the scheme provides for the taxation of interest income arising from the so-called koruna bonds issued before 1 January 2013 and provides for tax exemptions for landscape elements of the type of draw that can help in the fight against drought. During the previous discussion of this proposal, a question was raised as to why certain other tax obligations, such as personal income tax, are not reduced in connection with this increase in the tax burden. From the tax mix point of view, the proportion of personal income taxes in the Czech Republic is below average in international comparison. Should there be a reduction in the tax burden on labour, this should be done on the part of social insurance contributions, which, on the contrary, are considerably above average in international comparison. In this context, it should also be noted that the health objectives in this case go hand in hand with the aim of increasing the revenue of the State budget, which is, after all, due to the name of this law. The revenue that this amendment should bring also said that it should be allocated to prevent the negative social phenomena that it brings with it the consumption of addictive substances and gambling. However, I have long argued that it is inappropriate to address the financing of support for a policy on the revenue side of public budgets. Such policies are to be financed on the expenditure side of the public budget, which is regularly approved by the authority of the gifted authority to approve the public budget, i.e. this House. For this reason, I do not agree with the introduction of special purpose tax determinations, tax signatures or any equivalent. If funds equal to the revenue page were to be allocated on the expenditure page for a long time, there would again be a conflict with the principle of annual budget establishment and approval. It is essential, however, that the issue of dependence must be seen as a complex social phenomenon, where prevention, other adictological elements and overall security of this issue cannot be addressed through one budget chapter, but on the contrary it is broken down into several individual items. This is not only explicitly the cost of treatment and prevention, but also the cost of police, social services, the judiciary or the cost of creating a register of excluded persons. There are other costs in the Ministry of Finance, such as the salaries of the Customs Administration responsible for supervising compliance with the gambling law, which are not explicitly referred to as means of prevention, and yet are necessary to ensure the fight against addiction. The amendment to the Law on excise duties increases the rate of excise duty on alcohol, tobacco products, raw tobacco and heated tobacco products. This proposal is based on the demands of the Minister of Health and the Chair of the Government Committee for the Prevention of Addictions, who drew attention to increasing the availability of addictive substances as a result of the rise in standard of living. Since 2010, the average wage has increased by 44.2 %, which is clearly positive, but this is also the last year that the excise duty on alcohol has been increased. Although consumption taxes on cigarettes and tobacco have increased continuously during this period, their growth far did not correspond to rising wages and wages faster, so tobacco products have become more affordable. For this reason, the Minister of Health and the National Drug Coordinator have repeatedly appealed to the Ministry of Finance to proceed to higher taxation in particular of alcohol and tobacco through higher rates of excise duty. The WHO and OECD have long recommended increasing excise duties on tobacco and alcohol. [[10.20 hours]] The proposal to adjust excise duty rates is also linked to the government's programming declaration, according to which the government will promote measures to reduce the damage and risks associated with addiction issues when dealing with addiction problems. In the case of excise duty on cigarettes, this draft law also fulfils the requirement that the excise duty on cigarettes should be at least 60 per cent of the weighted average retail selling price of cigarettes released for consumption, which results from European law. It is Directive 2011/64/EU. Due to the development of cigarette prices on the Czech market, the Czech Republic would no longer meet this condition without increasing the excise duty rate. Of course, we have also dealt with risk factors in preparing to raise the rates of these excise duties. Let me therefore dispel some of the doubts that we have been faced with in relation to the proposal, namely: The threat of reducing the effect of the bill by extending the black market. The Czech Republic has long been among countries with a very low share of illegal trade in these commodities, both within the EU and globally. This helps cigarettes with tobacco labels, which serve as a very effective means of checking the authenticity of these products and their ability to sell them on the Czech market. A new pan-European system for monitoring the movement of tobacco products also serves a similar function, enabling it to trace these tobacco products from their manufacture to the point of sale to the final consumer. The alcohol is used for this purpose by the control tapes according to the law on mandatory marking of alcohol. According to the system instruments mentioned above, it should be stressed that the tax administrator has increasingly sophisticated equipment and procedures in order to combat illegal trade effectively. With regard to the possible effects arising from legal purchases in nearby countries, we do not believe that cross-border purchases of alcohol and tobacco would have reached significant volumes, given the relatively low price difference and the necessarily spent travel costs, even for reasons - and now please note - that the Ministry of Finance of the Slovak Republic is currently considering increasing excise duty on tobacco products, which means increasing the cigarette box by about 12 percent from 3.40 to 3.80 euros, which corresponds to the Czech proposal. The planned efficiency is from 1. 2. 2020. Poland then plans to increase the excise duty on tobacco products and alcohol by 3% for 2020. The Slovak proposal thus de facto eliminates the risk of increasing cross-border purchases in Slovakia. Polish regulation will then mitigate the expected negative effects from the purchase of Czech citizens in Poland. On the contrary, compared to Austria and Germany, where domestic purchases are budgetaryly beneficial for us, the price difference will remain significant. In addition, in Austria, the rates of excise duty on tobacco products should be revised in the years 2020, 2021, 2022. Although in our analyses in the consumption of non-taxed cigarettes in the Czech Republic and illegal products due to price changes we expect changes in the tobacco product market, we do not expect a pessimistic development that envisages a massive increase, either in the development of illegal trade, or in the behaviour of Czech consumers or foreign tourists. As to the objections that the inclusion of beer brewed as part of catering services in the reduced 10% VAT rate under the amendment to the VAT Act, which was related to the amendment to the EET Act, is supposed to be non-conceptual, I would like to point out that the purpose of this measure is to mitigate the claims imposed on payers in connection with the introduction of the register of sales in hospitality. At the same time, this measure supports work in this area, which forms a substantial part of the service provided. Therefore, the reduction in the VAT rate is not expected to be reflected in the final price of restaurant services for consumers, i.e. the price of beer served. This is not expected to increase the availability of this alcoholic beverage. At the previous meeting of the Committee on Budgets, it was then said that if the aim were to increase excise duty on alcoholic products for health reasons, then it would be logical that this would happen for all types of alcohol, and this is how it is said that the government is merely concerned with additional revenues. To this end, there are risks of problematic behaviour for hard alcohol, and this will probably be confirmed by the Minister of Health, and due to consumption higher, especially in the younger population. It is also a first step in this area over a long period of time and the issue of taxation of other types of alcohol should therefore be further analysed. Another measure to limit harmful social impacts is the amendment to the Gaming Tax Act. As part of this amendment, it is proposed to increase the rate of gambling tax for some of the partial taxes on gambling. The proposed change divides the rate of gambling tax into three levels according to the harmfulness of individual gambling in the same way as the Government's proposal for the Gaming Tax Act of 2015. Three zones of taxation of gambling were originally proposed, in particular with regard to their social harm and secondary profitability. However, the amendment adopted by the Chamber of Deputies at the time was abandoned and thus the taxation of gambling does not correspond to this division. Relatively dangerous live games with taxes as well as raffle, which is not systemic, and I consider this to be very inappropriate. Although, of course, we respect Parliament's will, we do believe that the original government proposal was clearly better in this regard, since it reflected better the nature of individual gambling. It is possible to ask why to go back to 2015, when we have 2019. In preparation of the 2015 proposal, thorough analyses of the entire complex of new gambling regulation, including taxation, were carried out. The process involved adictologists, experts in the operation of gambling, but also the organisation of gambling operators. Although the main objective of taxation of gambling is the acquisition of funds for public budgets, after all, it is a tax, so if we did not have that objective, it would not be necessary to introduce it, so that tax has always been seen as a complement to the regulation of the operation of gambling, which corresponds to its construction. In fact, if different gambling is to be taxed differently, this tax must take into account the risks and specifics of individual gambling in order to comply with European law. The 2015 analyses are thus the best material for gambling as a whole that is currently available. Sometimes there is an argument that these analyses are wrong because they predicted a higher tax return. However, these analyses were mainly adictological. Their main goal was, as in the case of the entire gambling regulation, to limit the availability of gambling so that we would stop being a casino in the heart of Europe. New regulation works better in this direction than we expected. There has indeed been a restriction on the availability of gambling, which I have presented publicly several times, but we want it to be applied throughout its originally proposed scale and can function even better, which includes better differentiation of taxation. Of course, there is also a collection of documentation to evaluate the effectiveness of regulation, because the best analysis is only an estimate that needs to be verified subsequently. A project is currently underway at the Ministry of Finance, whose aim is to evaluate these documents, the so-called ex post RIA. It can thus be summarised that the division into three tax zones is based on expert analyses and has a purpose. [[10.30 hours]] It is also possible to ask why the game is in some tax zone. The original bill was based on the fact that in the highest level of taxation there should be automatic machines, professionally technical game, it is currently fulfilled and that nothing should be changed even by this proposal. However, the aim of the proposal is to divide the lower tax zone into a medium and low zone. Live game, bingo and lottery are to be taxed in the middle of taxation. A live game requires roulette, black jack, dice, or even poker, which is a gambling game, which was confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court, therefore it is not worth discussing here that it is a noble profession. There is no dispute about the inclusion of live games in a higher risk zone. In the literature you will even find opinions that live games are as risky as technical games, because they have similar risks of addiction, but due to their lower availability as part of gambling regulation, their hazards have been taken into account by the fact that they cannot be run elsewhere than in casinos. It is necessary to include them in the highest level of taxation. In the case of lotteries, it must be acknowledged that they will be significantly applied to the profitability criterion. In addition to relatively harmless betting in the newsroom, in quotation marks, where the draw takes place once a week, especially in recent years games have appeared, which especially in the online environment began to be very similar to the technical game. The only risk is that these lotteries are to be drawn every few minutes, so there's an argument about their harmlessness because the player has to wait a week to know if he's won. On the Internet you will even find scratch tickets and in practice we have also noticed an effort to introduce games that would be formally a lottery but looked like a live game. If it were already possible to agree that the classic lottery is relatively harmless, then the lottery in today's form is certainly not so innocent. Although bingo is not very popular at the moment, the Ministry of Finance is concerned that if less than live games were taxed, this situation could change because there may be substitution between them. In addition, there are expert adictological articles according to which bingo is a moderately harmful gambling game. Other gambling, i.e. a bet, a totalizer game, a raffle with a gaming principal over 100 thousand, are to be included in the lower tax zone. and a small-scale tournament. Adictological analyses have shown that these games pose a certain risk, but this risk is significantly lower than those to be placed in a higher level of taxation. This is also related to the amendment to the Income Tax Act, which limits the current exemption of gambling prizes to the administrative limit of a net win of 100 thousand. Kč. The aim of this adjustment is, in particular, the fulfilment of the principle of horizontal justice, i.e. the principle of taxation of income at the same rate irrespective of the source. The amendment to the Income Tax Act and the Reserves Act for the determination of the income tax base amends the method of creating the insurance company's technical reserves for corporate tax purposes. In line with the objective declared in the Government's programming declaration that tax-recognizable technical reserves will be newly bound to the rules contained in the European Solvent II Directive, it is proposed to construct the tax deductibility of reserves according to the principles applicable to other reserves, i.e. to derive the tax effectiveness of reserves according to a fixed administrative indicator. This method is more objective, it is a sophisticated objective system controlled by the regulator and based on the risks that all European Union countries respect. At the same time, this system largely eliminates the possibilities of tax optimization through reserves, in particular the deferment of taxation, which in the long term this resort simply has as the only, this segment of business, as the only option. Sectoral taxation. This is not sectoral taxation, it is simply regulation, the setting of rules for the regulation of taxable reserves, but I warn you that sectoral taxation is applied across a number of countries. Therefore, the proposed change is among the more benevolent arrangements compared with other EU Member States. It does not bring additional taxation, only sets these clear rules. Another amendment concerning the Income Tax Act. A transitional provision is added to remove the non-conceptual taxation of interest income arising from the so-called koruna bonds. Finally, the amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act is also proposed. It responds to last year's discussion from the agricultural committee of this Chamber of Deputies on the taxation of landscape elements, especially ties, which are particularly relevant for the diversity of the landscape and its retention capacity. On the proposal of the Minister of Agriculture, namely the Czech Cadastral and Landscape Authority, another amendment concerns an increase in administrative fees for the initiation of the procedure for authorising a deposit in the Land Register. There are reasons given in particular by the fact that the last increase was here in 2012. Since then, state budget expenditure in this chapter of the Czech Cadastral and Landscape Authority has increased by 756 million. Kč. In particular, there are a number of new acts that have been linked to the amendment, with the new Civil Code. Another measure contained in the draft law and put there on the proposal of the Minister for the Environment is the abolition of the exemption of gas intended for the boiler room, which is a measure which has a purely reason to protect the environment, because, with the introduction of this exemption, a large number of domestic boiler rooms in residential buildings has thus increased, which simply threatens the environment, and therefore asked the Minister for this adjustment. Thank you for your attention. Of course, I'm ready to respond to another debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u5	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. That was the opening words of Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, and I note that we ordered the Committee on Guarantee to discuss this text as a committee at first reading. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 509/2. Before the budgetary committee rapporteur Milan Feranec takes the floor and informs us about the discussion of the committee's proposal, or the amendments are justified, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from Marie Pěnčíková, who apologizes from 25 September to Friday 27 September to the end of the day for health reasons. Now, then, the rapporteur, and then we will start the debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u6	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur shortly only to this law, only technically. The government presented it to the House on 13. 6. 2019. The first reading was completed 10. 7. 2019, with the designation of the Budget Committee by the Guarantee Committee. Furthermore, I would like to introduce you to the budget committee resolution of the 28th meeting of 18 September 2019 on the Government Bill amending certain tax laws in the context of increasing public budget revenues. As has already been said, it is the House press 509/2, but I will briefly comment on it. You all have it at your disposal. The Committee on Budgets recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's bill amending the laws should be approved in the wording of these amendments - and I will briefly, briefly explain the amendments adopted: The first concerns the tax treatment of winnings from gambling prizes of a receipt lottery. This is the issue where the level of the tax threshold is proposed instead of the original 100 thousand. 1 mil. Kč. That was the first change. Another change is the adjustment of the transitional provisions for excise duties. It's actually a little technical adjustment. Another change is the maintenance of the exemption of gas intended for domestic boiler rooms from gas tax. And the last change is a change in the amount of some gambling tax rates for slot machines - instead of 35, number 38. I repeat, you have this document, print 509/2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u7	I thank the rapporteur and will open a debate in which nine have so far been entered into the general debate and nine have been entered into a detailed debate. The first is with priority right the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has given very detailed reasons for her proposal. She did it honestly on the budget committee. In practically the same words, I apologise to the members of the Committee on Budgets that they will also hear from me for the second time the response to the bill submitted and to the Minister's words. Firstly, I want to say that it is not entirely fair for the government to justify its proposal primarily by combating addiction. I do not doubt, of course, that both nicotine and alcohol and gambling are dependent, but if the government were really motivated by the fight against addiction, then certainly the increase in the tax burden on these commodities would be offset by the reduction of some other taxes, in particular the contributions that bind to the job, because certainly neither the government nor the World Health Organization would mind the dependence on work. However, on the budgetary committee, the Minister quite categorically refused to reduce individual amendments, whether it was about the tariff or whether it was about increasing the deduction to the taxpayer. Sorry, discount on the taxpayer. So it is obvious that the motive for submitting this proposal is not to fight addiction, but that it is a simple attempt to increase the tax burden on citizens and increase the revenue of the state budget, while pointing out that the tax quota has never been as high in the past as it is this year. And of course, this proposal will move it much closer to number four, while it should go down to number three. This is also well seen in the proposal that returns to 2015 with the taxation of gambling. While the most dangerous gambling is left by the government's proposal at a rate of 35 percent, the much less dangerous ones, the less dangerous the tax increases. I therefore have the opposite view than the Minister, and I believe that the draft budget committee, which has been adopted and amended by the Government's proposal, is much better suited to the motive for combating addiction. The Minister for Gambling recalls the 2015 analyses. Together with her, I think that they are really very good, and I would like to remind her that in the 2015 Ministry of Finance's materials, based on these analyses in 2015, the Ministry of Finance clearly refused to tax lottery winnings from gambling. Taxing wins has been described as inefficient and unmanageable. So please, Madam Secretary, if you want to go back to 2015, let's go back there, including this position, which the Ministry of Finance has completely incomprehensiblely re-evaluated in four years and proposes us to tax winnings. In principle, we are prepared to support both the increase in excise duty on tobacco, alcohol and the increase in gambling taxes, provided that, at least in the same financial equivalent, other taxes, in particular I hope, will be reduced by personal income taxes. Otherwise, on our part, the support is out of the question. For this reason, I think it would be ideal for the government to take this proposal, redeploy it and, in this sense, to present it to the Chamber of Deputies, and I will therefore first of all submit a proposal for revision. If it is not adopted, allow me to briefly justify the two amendments to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. [[Short silence.]] Excuse me... which I will present in a detailed debate. The first concerns income tax on natural persons. In this parliamentary term and in the last parliamentary term, the government has in its programming declaration the abolition of the supergross wage, while it has consistently withheld the fact that the supergross wage has already been abolished by the 2012 Act with effect from 1. 1. 2015. The current government parties abolished the abolition of the supergross wage even before this applicable law could come into effect, so they kept the supergross wage and made sure each other each year that they would finally cancel it. It hasn't happened yet. I find this bill very appropriate for us to finally implement the government's statement, and so here I am kindly in favour of the government, and I am putting forward an amendment that cancels the super gross wage and sets a 19-percent gross wage tax rate. The second amendment concerns the taxation of technical provisions which the Minister has already referred to. Please, nicely, I'm not hiding that from the whole tax-change package we're discussing, this is what I consider to be the most dangerous and damaging proposal. It's not discussed for the first time. A number of ministers in the past, whether from ODS, from social democracy, from KDU or from TOP 09, were confronted with this, and all after discussion with experts and regulators, the Czech National Bank, evaluated such an idea as harmful to the Czech economy and dangerous. I do not remember any proposal from the Ministry of Finance in the past, whether there were left-wing or right-wing governments that would purposely weaken the robustness of the financial sector in the Czech Republic. Please, we are ten years from the Lehman crisis, and I would like to remind you that the Czech Republic was one of the four OECD countries where the taxpayer did not have to intervene in favour of the stability of the financial sector. He didn't have to, because we had very good capital adequacy for banks and very robust reserves for insurance companies. The Minister, or the Government, comes up with a proposal to weaken these robust reserves by taxed anything beyond the framework of the European Union's Solvent II Directive. Please, let me remind you that the directive was a response to the financial crisis. I was one of those who were still negotiating, and it was precisely for the European Union to have some minimum reserves, that directive laid down mandatory minimum reserves. But the minimum ones don't mean they're enough. Of course, as the Czech National Bank... It is in the interest of both the Czech National Bank and... Or the Czech National Bank believes that it is in the interest of the stability of the financial sector so that the reserves are much larger. But the government says whatever you have above this mandatory minimum, we will tax you. That means the government wants to push those insurance companies into very small, much smaller reserves than they are now, and increase the risk to future extraordinary situations and weaken the stability of the financial sector. [[10.50 hours]] I stress that we have all rejected such a step back twenty years as risky and harmful to the Czech economy, and I sue the government to present something that is risky and harmful to the Czech economy, although the Czech National Bank remains consistent in its opinion and does not agree with this proposal. In the commentary management, the regulator disagreed with this proposal. Yet government for one-off 10 billion. selected within two years it wants to damage the Czech economy and the stability of the financial sector, because after us the flood. The paradox of this proposal and its consequence is that it will also increase the motivation of foreign owners to drain dividends from the country. If you ever listen to the Prime Minister, I know it's hard and it can be difficult to endure, but if you can stand it, you can hear it very often, as he says, that we must fight against tens and hundreds of billions of dividends from the country to foreign owners. As he intends to do in the global market economy, he did not tell us, but at the same time he gives us a proposal where he directly increases the motivation, because if the money is not recognised tax on reserves, the owner will, of course, take it on dividends. In addition to damaging the financial sector, it will damage the Czech economy, so do foreign owners - because insurance companies have dominant foreign owners - will motivate them to increase the flow of dividends from the Czech Republic. Therefore, I urge you, if nothing else, at least this amendment, where I propose to dismiss this whole part, support you in the interests of the Czech economy and reject the government's appetite for the 10 billion that will not happen again after two years. This is indeed a one-off income so that the government improves its balance sheet in 2021 and 2022, and then it will not happen again. That's very expensive fun for the terrible damage to the financial sector. And don't listen to the argument that we're setting it according to Solvency II. Again, Solvency II sets the minimum, and it is to the extent little and risky that in the case of some insurance companies, it may mean that if there are only provisions on Solvency II, it is already slowly to initiate administrative proceedings. And those insurance companies urgently need higher reserves in their own interests, in the interests of insured persons and also in the interests of the Czech economy. But anything beyond that minimum, the government wants to tax it. If we ever use the term "budgetary crime," then in this case, it's quite appropriate. I will sign up for the amendments in a detailed debate and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u9	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, just a moment. You spoke in your speech about returning the petitioners, but that's not possible at second reading, it's only possible to suggest...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u10	I'm sorry, rejection, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u11	Denial. So I've translated it into the return to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation, which is a different version of the return, but I'm asking you if you're proposing something in a procedural manner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u12	No, I suggest we dismiss the bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u13	That's a rejection. Okay, third reading. Okay, thank you, the rapporteur has noted. We can continue with Mrs Věra Kovářová's speech, with priority rights after Mrs Jan Bartošek's colleague Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a government amendment to the law amending certain tax laws in the context of increasing the revenues of public budgets. Of course, I think this amendment should be called a little different. It should be a government bill amending certain tax laws in connection with how to pull money out of taxpayers' pockets. The government promised not to raise taxes. Taxes are increased by this proposal, and not only taxes, but also by administrative fees, e.g. for a deposit in the real estate register. So let's start with changes in rates and increases in rates for gambling, alcohol and cigarettes. This is justified by the need to combat addiction, increase the protection of citizens against addictive substances and gambling. This could be understood, we can agree with it, and at first sight, there is really nothing to object to. But it would be understandable if the government clearly stated how much funding from the increase in the collection of these so-called. He will put vice on protection and prevention and the fight against addiction. This is how it looks like everything's going to go to the state budget. Taxation alone will not help protect people from addictive substances or gambling. Let's start with gambling. It is clear and experts say that regulation is necessary, but regulation also needs to be graduated, for example. higher taxation of the most risky gambling. The Minister said that a number of experts were involved in the discussion on this subject. If we look at rising rates, we see that the biggest increase in lottery games is from 23 to 30 percent, and this is what experts call one of the biggest mistakes. The same applies to exchange rate bets when an increase occurs, from 23 per cent to 25 per cent. But the highest social costs are at gambling, that is, at slot machines. And if the government talks about the health aspect, but it also admits that it wants to have economic income from these taxes into the state budget, it would be logical to tax the part of the gambling that has the largest market share. In the European Union, for example, the lottery share is 62 percent, whereas in the Czech Republic only 13 percent. That is why it would be logical to increase the number of slot machines, which means the most widespread gambling, which is the rate, and there is no increase. According to the RIA regulatory impact assessment, this part of gambling would withstand an increase of up to 38% without affecting their revenues. And as far as I know, in the Committee on Budgets, such an amendment has passed, and we think that this is the way in the right direction. If we look at alcohol, there is a certain increase, and we can also say that hard alcohol really causes the biggest complications. But even to the secretary about beer and what's most harmful, we can only say that it's the young people who start drinking beer and then go all the way to the hard drink. [[11.00 hours]] I cannot agree with some of the arguments raised by the Minister here regarding the increase in the tax rate on cigarettes. As the Minister also said in the Committee on Budgets, the Czech Republic has a very low proportion of illegal cigarettes, untaxed cigarettes. However, the collection of empty boxes for the last two years has shown that this has increased, even doubled, from 4 to 10 percent. This means that the volume of untaxed cigarettes in the Czech Republic according to these estimates is about 10 percent, which I think is a relatively high amount. Of course, if there is an increase in the pack of cigarettes, the price advantage of Polish and Slovak products will increase, and the difference between these products and Czech ones will increase from 4 to 16. [[prices]] And if the Minister argues that there will be an increase in taxes on cigarettes in Slovakia and Poland, so far we can only listen to you and we must trust you. Another interesting point, which the Minister mentioned to the Committee on Budgets, that the increase in the price of a pack of cigarettes would not affect whether German or Austrian tourists would stop buying cigarettes from us. Consider that around 30% of cigarettes sold in the Czech Republic make the return on excise duty and VAT almost 25 billion. Crowns. However, if the difference between the price of a pack of cigarettes in Germany or Austria and the Czech Republic decreases, then the purchase in the Czech Republic may be reduced and, of course, the increase in the collection from the increased price of cigarettes will probably not be as high as the government expects. Then we'd have cigarettes. And now, let me comment on another idea which is the content of this amendment, and that is the taxation of the technical provisions of insurance companies. In fact, the so-called technical provisions are the money that the insurance company saves for the future, so that it has something to pay its clients' life insurance. It is therefore the money of clients who are ready to pay for future benefits in case of illness, injury or even death, or a significant limitation of the ability to go to work. That's the principle of life insurance. The purpose of the reserves is to cover future claims of insured persons arising directly from insurance contracts. Taxing this money is gambling with the trust of people who have insured themselves. And of course, and there hasn't been a word about that, it will lead to an increase in the price of insurance. This means that, in essence, the government wants to feed the life insurance of our citizens through this regulation. In this way, some insurance companies are estimated to pay 300 to 500 per cent of net profit as a one-off tax. This has already been mentioned. And it should also be remembered that this is a one-off return, not a permanent one, which is therefore spread over two years. And if it pays recurring, in particular mandatory expenditures such as pensions, parental allowance, etc., it will create just another imbalance in public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the amendments that respond to the criticisms that I made in the previous speech. The first amendment is my proposal, and then Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Bartošek. This proposal concerns the abolition of the increase in the fees for the deposit in the land register to double, i.e. that the amount for the deposit in the cadastral will not increase to CZK 2,000, but will remain at the original amount, which is CZK 1000. The second amendment is a change in the taxation of technical provisions. Basically, it's about excluding life insurance reserves from the government's bill. It's a kind of compromise, and there's only non-life insurance left. My third amendment is a compromise and constitutes an adjustment to the government proposal so that the taxation of the difference in the transition to the new methodology is spread over more than two tax periods. I will present these amendments in detail in a detailed debate. To conclude, something positive: we very much welcome the change in the rate on real estate tax to draw. And I think there's a consensus on that in the entire Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Věra Kovářová. Now, therefore, with priority rights, President Jan Bartošek. Before I give him my word, his party colleague Stanislav Juránek apologizes from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, from 12 a.m. to the entire meeting and tomorrow. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I believe that every tax law should have a so-called RIA, which means an impact on the business environment. This is because all competent authorities that have something to say are so important to know their position. This press doesn't have it. And we can ask why that happened. The government had plenty of time, knew what it wanted to achieve, and could ask the Czech National Bank, for example, about the taxation of insurance reserves. I believe that the government did not do this because it does not want to know the position, because many things would be negative. The Minister says that the Czech Republic belongs to countries where illegal alcohol, tobacco and other things are very low. I am pleased and agree with you for this, but I believe that this is happening precisely on the basis that the tax system has always been subject to an examination of the extent to which the industry can bear it and to what extent it will lead to the fact that tobacco smuggling, black distillery and others are on the contrary expanding. We can assume and you can say: we're doing the best, it's good, there's no change. I'd like to, of course. But until it's backed up by an official opinion, we're only talking about conjecture, not reality. Indeed, the situation in this area, that is, tobacco smuggling, black distillery, and the development of illegal gambling, can actually occur. The government is holed up here by making alcohol more expensive, so it's the best thing we can do for prevention and treatment. I said it at first reading, and I say it now, it is not true, and it is only an alibi claim, because without making it more expensive as one of the instruments of deterioration or reduction of alcohol availability, for example, media campaigns, some restrictions on the sale of hard alcohol at gas stations, restrictions on the sale of hard alcohol in shops, as is the case elsewhere in the world, and of course these are tools that are known from the world, are used and work. Unfortunately, the Minister of Health is not here to answer that question and we could talk about it. But what I'm saying is that the actual price increase is nothing like what you expect in the sense of changing consumer behavior, so it doesn't happen. [[11.10 hours]] The same applies to gambling. When we adopted this gambling law, which is in practice, it was discussed and the analysis of the RIA was actually processed. And I wonder why it is not processed in this case either. Whether the level of tax burden corresponds to whether it will lead to the development of black gambling. We don't even have an answer from the government here. We can only assume or assume. And I just add a footnote that there is still no register of players, adictological brakes, and all these tools that should have removed pathological players from gambling and prevented them from playing. That is why I propose that one percent - and in a detailed debate, I will read the amendments - be allocated to prevention and treatment. Unfortunately, I am convinced that some people cannot handle gambling passion and will become addicted. And I believe that the government of this money, from the gambling money, should clearly allocate one percent to prevention and treatment in order to help these people and prevention and treatment organisations have the certainty of funding in the prevention of sociopathological phenomena. Then there's the question of taxing insurance companies. What my previous speakers have said here is a great temptation for every government. This government has succumbed to double temptation, and one of them is that they have a lot of money in their regional accounts, so it has ultimately not financed enough social services, which will currently be forced to finance social services from its own resources. And the second thing, temptation in relation to insurance companies. I believe that this step is wrong, and I will propose that insurance companies not be taxed. It's simple. You asked the position of the Czech National Bank what they thought about it. This has been discussed within the subcommittee and it has been said that this step is considered to be very risky. And we can talk about whether this step will result in an increase in insurance premiums, a one-off benefit to the budget and a subsequent downturn for all other governments, and so on. Since this proposal, this tax package, has indeed been prepared by the government in Swedish and has not given any professional background and opinions, we are moving in terms of assumptions and assumptions, not real calculations. I appreciate the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, which has accepted that domestic boiler rooms are being removed and that they will not be disturbed by the exception to natural gas, because it would actually cost people heat in their homes, and that is wrong. We now know how difficult it is for young families to get housing and finance it. And instead of helping young families and all who want to live, this government is making the cadastral entry more expensive - I will also put an amendment there - it wants to increase the warmth and the situation does not really make it easier for young families to move in. That much, at least, a general opinion in the context of this debate. I will read several of my amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u17	I thank Mr Jan Bartošek and now Mr Radek Koten. A colleague of the Hrnčíř will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Ministers, Madam Secretary, Mr President. I would very much like to read here this amendment, which is 509 to this House's press. It is a government bill that amends certain tax laws in connection with raising public budget revenues. So it would change like this: 1. In Part Two, Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 is replaced by the following: III. the following points shall be inserted after point 14 of the current amendment: X. In Article 26, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (a) "40,000" is replaced by "100,000." XI. In Article 26, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (c) between the word "construction" and "except" the words "the entry price of which is higher than CZK 100,000" shall be inserted. XII. In Article 26, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (e) '40,000' is replaced by '100,000'. XIII. In Article 26, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (c) "40,000" is replaced by "100,000." XIV. In Article 27, point (b) is (a) "40,000" is replaced by "100,000." XV. In Article 33 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 1 '40,000' is replaced by '100,000'. The following points are numbered. 2. In Part Two, Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 is replaced by the following: IV Transitional provisions shall be inserted after the previous amendment point 5 the following amendment point shall be inserted: XVI. The remaining price of the tangible assets pursuant to § 26 para. 2 and 3 entered into use during the tax period which began before the date of entry into force of this law, the entry price of which did not exceed CZK 100 000, can be applied to tax expenditure during the tax period in which this law took effect. I justify this proposal as follows: The proposal increases the limit defining separate material movable things as tangible assets from the existing 40,000 new to CZK 100,000. In practice, this means that small assets at a cost of up to CZK 100,000 can be used as a one-off tax-efficient expenditure by the taxpayer. At the same time, this limit extends to constructions, as in practice there are situations where the taxpayer builds a fence, for example 35,000, but tax write-offs for 20 years. The proposal similarly increases the limit for the definition of: (a) animals as material property which has been effective since 2009; (b) the creation by the user of other assets in the case of financial leasing, which has been effective since 1999; (c) material assets excluded from depreciation by which assets are transferred free of charge under the lease agreement, provided that the expenditure relating to their acquisition does not exceed that limit; (d) technical assessment of material assets. The proposal for a new limit for the definition of separate material movable items as tangible assets is intended primarily to enable accounting units of the integrated rescue system, or the Police of the Czech Republic, the Prison Service and so on, to make faster depreciation of financially demanding equipment and equipment. At the same time, it will help the business sector significantly in particular in terms of building a digital state. The harmonisation of the tax regime for these categories of assets will then contribute to the clarity and manageability of the income tax. This valuation is proposed after 21 years, as the current level applies from 1998. The proposal for a new limit of CZK 100,000 is set accordingly if we compare it with the government proposed 100% by increasing the fee for the proposal for the deposit of real estate, which comes after seven years, which is justified by inflation. So I guess that's it. So I ask you to support this amendment, because I think that this kind of management in accounting, where you're running a business that's already been consumed, it's gone, it's already been destroyed, it's replaced by a new one, so we're still running it as entrepreneurs, or other accounting units of the state, so they're still keeping it in the books, and it's written down over and over again. I think the state will not lose anything, because if this thing is to be written off for, like, five or ten years, the state regularly gives relief to the taxpayer in those tax write-offs anyway, so this proposal only increases the amount that can be written off immediately, and so it will not be included in the accounts for the next few years. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u19	I thank Mr Radek Koten. Now, colleague Jan Hrnčíř, Mrs Krutáková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's bill amending certain tax laws in the context of increasing public budget revenues, House press No. 509, we cannot support it, because despite the promise of this government in the programme statement that it will not increase taxes, this bill makes life significantly more expensive for citizens. On the contrary, we in the SPD want to make life cheaper for people. This government proposal increases, among other things, the excise duty on alcohol and tobacco, including the burning of growers, increases gambling tax, introduces the taxation of lotteries and bets above CZK 100,000, without dealing with the cost of betting before winning. It also interferes with the exemption of natural gas used in domestic boiler rooms from gas tax, which will lead to an increase in heating to about 400 000 households, including retirement homes, etc. It also increases to double the deposit fee in the real estate register, although we also have a senseless tax on the acquisition of real estate. All this at a time when we have historically the highest economic growth, and thus the highest tax revenues. On the Committee on Budgets, Minister Schillerová said that wages have increased for the Čech in recent years and thus their purchasing power. That is largely true. Tax collection has also grown with this. But it's still not enough for the government. On the other hand, almost everything has increased - housing, energy, food, services, and more. That's what needs to be said. We therefore propose to increase the basic discount on the taxpayer and the discounts on the spouse under the Income Tax Act to CZK 27,400 from the current CZK 24,840. This increase responds to steady growth in minimum wages and average wages in recent years. The increase is proposed minimally so as to avoid a fatal threat to the revenue of the state budget and, at the same time, compensates particularly for the workers' jumping increase in consumer and other taxes contained in the Government's proposal for this law. We also propose an increase in the amount for the exemption of occasional income. The Income Tax Act allows no occasional income to be subject to taxation, which does not exceed CZK 30,000 per year. Typical income is rent of movable goods, income from cultivation, breeding or sale of unnecessary property e.g. Mommy's on maternity leave. It belongs here, for example. as well as revenue from the operation of small electricity generation plants up to 10 kW for which no licence is required by the Energy Regulatory Authority. The limit for non-taxing occasional income of CZK 30,000 was introduced in 2014, with an increase in the prices of movable goods since then, as well as a general increase in prices and inflation. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to increase the amount to which income does not have to be taxed in the form of income, to CZK 36,000. The estimated loss of revenue in the state budget will be completely marginal, against which it is worth strengthening the financial situation of low-income families or pensioners who improve their life situation by selling them on occasion. We also propose a reduction in income tax for small companies, as in neighbouring Slovakia. The tax burden in the Czech Republic is one of the highest in the European Union. The tax reduction for small companies whose annual income does not exceed CZK 3 million will allow the saved funds to invest in another business, which will ultimately be a positive asset for the Czech economy. Small firms and businesses are one of the important pillars of a functioning economy and it is therefore necessary to support them. The state budget revenue shortfall, which occurs after the proposal has been approved, can be compensated effectively by other tax measures, which may result in a higher rate of taxation for multinational corporations or the introduction of effective rules for the outflow of profits from the Czech Republic. I hope, fellow Members, that you will support our proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u21	I thank my colleague Hrnčíř. Now, Mrs Jana Krutáková, Mr Radek Holomčík will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to introduce you to my amendment to the Government Bill amending certain tax laws in connection with the increase in public budget revenue. My amendment is simple: in the first part of the article. The amendment point of Section 4 of the Real Estate Tax Act is set out here under point (k) of the Land and the use of the land, where landscape elements will be exempted, inter alia, from real estate tax. I propose that in point 3, the words "a group of trees on other areas" be added. My reasoning is as follows: Farmers demand that the land tax on so-called land tax be reduced. landscape elements. The importance of landscape elements has been constantly discussed lately. These are elements that retain water in the landscape, prevent erosion and also provide refuge for animals and plants. The proposed change will result in the abolition of the obligation to pay the tax on landscape elements on all types of areas, i.e. on other areas, thus removing complex evidence of whether or not the area is excluded from agricultural and other economic uses. In a detailed debate, I will then sign up for this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u23	Thank you, Mrs Jana Krutáková. The next performer is Mr Radek Holomčík, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to two of my proposals here. One is an amendment and the other is a motion for an accompanying resolution. The amendment is quite simple. Me and my colleague Ondřej Polanský served it once. It's about home cooking beer. Currently, if you want to cook beer at home, you have an annual limit of 200 liters, you have to report it to Customs and you have to keep and archive records for ten years. Our proposal - originally we made a proposal to increase to 2 000 litres, abolish the obligation to register and cancel the obligation to register, eventually after some discussions that took place here last time, we left there the obligation to report to the tax authorities and we shortened the period of obligation to conduct, respectively. archive records from ten to three years. What remains is an increase in the limit from 200 liters to 2,000. The quantity has been discussed. I've heard some comments here that it's too much and that it doesn't make sense. It makes sense, of course. On the one hand, in principle, we do nothing but harmonize domestic brewing of beer with homemade wine production. The winemaker can make 2,000 liters of wine. Of course, it has other restrictions based on the wine law, but that is another discussion, another matter. So one of those senses is to harmonize home-cooked beer with homemade wine making. And the other thing is basically logical, or rather factual. The limit of 2,000 liters is essentially set so that it doesn't happen to the homemaker, or it probably couldn't be that he exceeds the limit, but at the same time it's not lucrative in terms of some illegal sale. In our view and in our opinion, we have had discussions with people who are engaged in domestic production of beer, actually some reasonable boundaries, so that the two conditions are met. [[11.30 hours]] At the same time, we consider the support of homemaking to be quite important. Sometimes it's clear, we give citizens another way to get to cheap alcohol. This argument will not stand. We were given from the very homemakers who are cooking, some quantification of the cost of recipes, and the prices were actually there from CZK 17 to 30 for these more normal types of beer, and now I'm talking about the price for a pint, CZK 17 to 30 for a pint for the more standard recipes. For some special, where you need some special kinds of hops and malt, so it's even more. And if you take the cheapest beer in the store, it's significantly cheaper than the 17 to 30 crowns. So this argument won't hold. Importantly, in the last few years, they have experienced a large boom of micro- and mini-breweries. And there's quite a shortage of brewers. And if you talk to people who are already engaged in commercial activities, microbreweries, mini-breweries, you'll find that actually a small number of brewers who are now brewing commercial beer pay off taxes, possibly employing other people, so they came out of the very homemakers. Because they learned that, they understood what beer production was about, they understood how individual recipes and ingredients behaved, and they began to pursue it professionally. Another important thing. If we're talking about alcoholism, it's basically that you don't choose what you drink, it's about ethanol. When you talk to homemakers, they tell you that since they've been brewing beer, their tastes have changed fundamentally. They started to choose more, they started to understand more, so it also has a positive impact on some, say, consumer cultivation. And one last thing about the homeowners. For God's sake, I find it completely absurd for us to limit people to something as natural as home-cooked beer. It's been done in history a long time ago, it's got a tradition here, and I think if we want the citizens to follow the law, then there should be a point to these laws. So much for the homeowners. The other, this accompanying resolution also concerns the production of alcohol, but in the production brandies. That's where the situation is a little more complicated. Basically, it's now that some alcohol tax rate is commercial and half, 50 percent, is the rate for alcohol produced in the production brandy. With an increase in the excise duty on alcohol, the commercial one, logically, there's also an increase in the price for brandy. Unfortunately, this cannot be done by simply amending our law, because it is based on Directive 92/83/EEC on the harmonisation of the structure of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages that has been in force in the European Union since 1992. And my resolution is heading in the direction that we consider it a good idea to open up a debate about how these rules should change. Because it just doesn't make sense. Unfortunately, in March of this year, the government was sabotaged or killed, involved in killing the debate on changes in the conditions in the EU for domestic alcohol production, possibly even for the cultivation burning. So the rationalization, unfortunately, if any comes, has somehow drifted away. But we think we need to talk about this, and I will explain the reasons afterwards. Now I would like to read the motion for an accompanying resolution: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. notes that the cultivation burning is a traditional way of producing alcohol in the Czech Republic and that the realistic tax regime for this method of production is part of a rational drug policy that leads to a reduction in the total amount of illegal and uncontrolled alcohol production; II. Points out that the current design of excise duty rates determined by European law lacks sufficient flexibility; III. It calls on the Government to address the issue of excise duty rates at European Union level and to familiarise the Chamber of Deputies with the steps it has taken on this matter by 1 December 2020.' That's based on one simple fact. To think that the increase in alcohol, even in the production of brandy, will reduce the amount of burnt alcohol, is nonsense. All that happens is that the amount of alcohol produced illegally increases. If we want - and I repeat what I said to those homemakers - if we want citizens to obey the law, these laws should make sense. Production in growers' brandies is a way of producing non-commercially controlled alcohol, both in terms of taxes and in terms of some quality. Even those brandies are treated in some way by checking that the leaven that burns didn't come from some stolen fruit. If we don't want those numbers of illegal brandy to go up, we should try to make it as simple as possible to do it legally. According to estimates, which are relatively complex, it is the amount of alcohol that is produced illegally in our country, somewhere between 50 and 100 percent of the amount that is made in brandies. So we're talking about a pretty big number here. Then I will discuss it even more in the third reading. Now I would just like to ask for your support afterwards and, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for my amendment and also read the text of the motion for an accompanying resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u25	That was Mr Radek Holomčík, now Mr Václav Klaus, who will be prepared by colleague Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u26	Hello. We're at second reading, so I'm going to make a general statement on this law. I'm gonna start a little wide. I am trying to approach all the proposals in this House without prejudice. So let's say the pirát are pretty far away from me, but when I signed the law to give the cyclists a break, the watermen, and they could have a beer on the boat, I'm all for it. If they want to introduce a prosecutor-police state by preventing executive powers from controlling the prosecution and the police, I'm against it again, and that's how I approach it. I'll just explain. We have too much legislation, it's you, the courts, it's independent courts, and then we have the power of executive, which comes from the people, which includes police and prosecutors, and no matter what's happening right now, it's not supposed to interfere. Right now, today, I would speak to the government majority here, to your ruling movement. I like many of you, there are many interesting Members and politicians, Christian Juchelka, Liberal Nacher, Professor Rais, very considerate always on the school committee - but forgive me, the mainstream you deliver is a little different. Because the purpose of the state is to let people be able to let people work because this country has become rich because of people's spontaneous activities, not because of government activities, bans and orders. And one of the key things that affect this is taxes. And you keep raising taxes. You raise taxes, the economic crisis will soon come, or worse. You refused to cut the property tax, you're raising another package of taxes today, and it's clear that the company is already on the verge. You know well that when you increased taxes on so-called taxes in 2017. Gambling, so it didn't bring you any more money, but on the contrary, you're down three billion. And you're going to try again and throw another group of people on the black market. [[11.40 hours]] The same applies to alcohol. After all, the Czech liqueurs and legal manufacturers are already on the edge, and the tax is huge from each bottle. So you're going to increase it, and you're going to have some general benefit. Here, please, if it's any good, we'll ban it. We can talk about it, the flashing machine is such a horrible thing that the law just lets them break, and no one can play it under any fines. But you put taxes in it. Same in terms of cigarettes. So now you're trying to make this box cost 200 crowns or how much to these citizens, and you're arguing their health. So it's a completely inaccurate thing again. We will certainly not support this law because, first of all, it will raise taxes, push a lot of decent operators out of the market, whether they bet or not, it will move them to the black market. Same thing happens with alcohol. What happens to cigarettes, I don't know exactly, because I don't smoke myself, but I'm sure there'll be some attempts to get around it in some way. So it doesn't make any sense. And you won't even get the money, the proper contribution of the state budget won't be, and then the effort to bribe all possible electoral groups will come across the coming economic crisis. So it's in your own interest not to make such attempts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u27	I thank Mr Václav Klaus. Now with the factual remark Pavel Plzák and then Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I don't want to delay, but I was listening to the previous speaker, and he said the interesting thing that the liquors he makes are already on the edge. I don't know where he got it, but what puzzles me as a consumer is that when I go to buy a bottle of adjective wine, today the seven is more expensive than the seven of hard alcohol. If you've noticed. Thank you. So I'm thinking maybe the reserve for some kind of auction might be there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. With a point of fact, Mr. Václav Klaus. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u30	I'm a math teacher. I don't want to be a tax expert here, but wine is not a good example. There's no excise duty. So it's a little off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u31	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and now Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Leo Luzar will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Because we're at second reading, I'm not going to focus on the details of the amendment to this tax package today because I did it last time at first reading. However, before I introduce my five amendments, let me say a few words in general on this tax package. I have listened carefully and carefully to the Minister of Finance and its explanation, and it has once again proved that the government is trying to hide this tax increase by a kind of godly activity that some of these taxes go into harmful activities. But let us look at the very title of the present law, in which the motivation is indicted, the only motivation the government has for this amendment, and this title of the law is a government bill amending certain tax laws in the context of increasing public budget revenues. In fact, with that name, the government admits the only incentive it has to submit, and it's an increase in taxes. An increase in taxes that you want to collect another 20 billion from taxpayers' pockets in the coming years. By the way, the government is violating its own government statement saying that it will not increase the tax burden. And in order to cover it up marketing, the government interprets it as a goddamn thing, and so, at first sight, tax increases go into, say, unpopular sectors. Bad insurance companies, bad smoking and alcohol, gambling, winning lotteries. But there are also a few housing proposals. If the motivation really was what you say here and what the secretary here called it, the government would put forward a tax-neutral solution. Which didn't happen. Why is the government proposing this? So the management of state finances, as we can see, has deteriorated steadily over the last few years. Despite economic growth, the future is eating through deficit budgets, little investment is being made, and in particular the operating expenditure of the state is growing, even at the expense of investment. The total volume of the budget is increasing, but we have a structural problem here in the long run, because the operating expenditure of the State is growing much faster than capital expenditure. Even in the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office, the budget is prepared for a possible recession worse than it was ten years ago. Even though you were so lucky that you were making up the last budget in economic growth. And yet state finances are worse prepared for a possible recession and cooling than they were ten years ago. And I am very sorry about that, because it is a shame for our entire state and our entire economy. Moreover, the compound tax quota is growing steadily. While it was 32,6 percent in 2015, we are now crossing the 36 percent limit. This means that it is redistributing more in the economy, and unfortunately, the government still does not have enough. Unfortunately, you have narrowed it down to the question of how much more money you can squeeze out of people. I'm afraid that's what it looks like. I would like to be wrong, I would also like to acknowledge that if I were wrong, if you would support our amendment, which I would allow you to imagine. My colleagues will present the next one. The first amendment, which is under number 3374, is your favorite and our favourite cancellation of the property acquisition tax. There was a lot of discussion here last night. But I just feel that it isn't fair for a earner to pay taxes, plus he has to pay a 4 percent tax to the state for wanting to take responsible care of his own place and get his own apartment. This tax is simply absurd and meaningless. Housing becomes a problem for the middle class and we can at least partially relieve them by abolishing this tax. For ordinary citizens, for young people, this tax of 4 percent is a few extra months' work. Instead of investing in their housing, young people will have to pay to borrow foreign property, because their need to live will not decrease, and if they don't have such expensive properties for today, they won't have to pay for tax, they won't have to have mortgages, so they'll just have to be, even if they don't want to, in rental housing, which is also growing, thereby narrowing down space for their own savings, which they can then use for participation and tax. Let us be the first problem to address the housing crisis to abolish this tax. Those tens of thousands of crowns, which people have to pay the state de facto for nothing, can use themselves more effectively than to dissolve them in the bottomless state budget. We are presenting this to our club because I am optimistic because I believe that in the end, you of the ANO movement, social democracy and KSČM will look kindly at the fact that it is really pointless to collect 4 percent, 4 percent more from buyers, and ultimately support the proposal. Another amendment, which I have uploaded to the system under the designation 3372, is the proposal to increase the VAT registration limit to CZK 2 million. VAT registration is such a significant leap for entrepreneurs in terms of their administrative obligations, whether it concerns keeping tax records or reporting checks. Since entry into the European Union from 1 May 2004, the VAT threshold has not increased, and between these years, due to inflation, economic growth in recent years, the number of obliged registered entities has increased due to exceeding the current limit of 1 million out of 43 thousand persons to almost 116 thousand registered entities. If you really want to reduce the administrative burden for the smallest entrepreneurs, let us move together the border where the most administrative obligations relating to the payment of taxes arise. [[11.50 hours]] By agreeing to this proposal, you will complete your own programming statement by the government, promising that the government will take further steps to minimise the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. I expect the Minister to tell me that it is impossible to move this line because of the Council of Europe directive (?). But by saying we can't, we'll get into such a vicious circle that it'll never happen. Sometimes it's easier to say it's impossible, but whoever wants to, looks for ways and doesn't look for reasons. We are looking for ways, which is why we have looked up, for example, the example of Slovenia from 2013, which successfully discussed an increase in VAT from EUR 25 000 to EUR 50 000 at European level. By the way, in the Council of Europe decision (?) It is stated that the Commission intends to set the right value for the VAT exemption up to EUR 100,000 in its proposal and therefore the Board agreed with Slovenia's request. Even Article 395 of the existing directive states: "The Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, may authorise any Member State to introduce a special measure derogating from this Directive which aims to simplify the procedure for the collection of tax or to prevent certain types of tax evasion or avoidance.' And I do not see the reason that Slovenia was able to negotiate this, why this should not be done to the Czech Republic. From my point of view, it is only a matter of the will, taste and negotiating abilities of our representatives. I also have the accompanying resolution prepared for this, which I will read in a detailed debate. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] The further proposal I propose for the ODS is an extension of the deadline for submitting a control report from five to fifteen days. Lately, we see that the state of affairs has often behaved in a stepmother's way, and some of the deadlines it is planning for them are indeed gallows. And just the five-day period for submitting a corrective inspection report is such a gallows time especially for the smallest ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u33	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. If you are having debates other than the question of tax change, it is crucially in the foyer. And anyone who wants to join this debate will certainly get the floor. But I would really like it to be quiet here so that whoever has the word can also use it in a dignified environment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. A period of five days is really a short period of time and can lead to complications in normal situations such as a holiday entrepreneur or unexpected illness of his or his or his accountant, where such an entrepreneur easily gets into conflict with the law. In particular, in the case of traders and small enterprises with limited working capacity and the fulfilment of all administrative tasks imposed, they do not have representativeness, even if they have only one accounting officer, the current five-day period is completely disproportionate. I therefore propose an increase in this deadline from five to fifteen days. In fact, the aim of the control report should not be to punish for administrative misconduct by failing to comply with short deadlines. The excessive restrictive approach of the State to tax entities whose main activity is not the pursuit of administrative activities for the State, but the creation of, in particular, value added within the national economy, leads to a reduction in the quality and level of the business environment. And my aim is at least to straighten out this unequal position of the entrepreneur and the state within this time limit. Another proposal, under the heading 3343, is a proposal that changes the filing of the real estate tax. We still have a duty, or citizens have a duty to report, not only to the State, a change of ownership to the Land Register, not only to grant a real estate tax return, but to submit a new real estate tax return.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u35	I really don't want to name my colleagues, but I would very much like you to let Mr. Munzar finish his speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u36	Thank you. Even though the state has enough information in its registers, it still forces a citizen to file this tax return, even under the threat of fines. In most cases, however, the state would be able to measure the tax without the citizen having to give this additional tax return. I therefore propose by the amendment a model which will lead to a significant reduction in this obligation and thus to a reduction in the administrative burden on the part of the tax entity and citizens. It would work on a voluntary principle that a person who wants to be sure would file a return on his own who would not want and had no exceptional situation, for example, so the tax would be measured by the State from the data available to him. In this case, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance for providing legal support on the basis of my initiative and helping to prepare this proposal legislatively so that it is factually correct. So I do not know what the final position of the Minister of Finance will be, but I believe that we can push this together to reduce tax bureaucracy for ordinary citizens. Another proposal, the last one I have, which is under the heading 3344, is the abolition of part of the tax package, which increases the administrative fees of the type of proposal to double the deposit. Because the original proposal is again expensive to purchase own housing and it is de facto a hidden taxation, and the government argues only by inflation in the submission of this proposal, but we did not even get in the background to quantify the actual cost of these actions, so without this it is just another price increase, without having to agree on the first proposal to cancel the real estate tax. That is why I propose this annulment. These are all my proposals that I have read, led and motivated by the aim of reducing the tax burden on citizens and reducing the bureaucratic and administrative burden on citizens and tax entities. I trust you'll support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u37	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. There is one factual point by Mr Václav Votava. Leo Luzar will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, when I keep listening from the right, ODS, about how the property acquisition tax is outrageous, amoral, friends, in 2013, I think the Minister said it yesterday, you yourself, at that time it was the real estate transfer tax, increased from 3 to 4 percent. Why didn't you cancel it then? I mean, did you have the strength to cancel it? And today you're criticizing it? Isn't that hypocritical? It's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I still have two factual points, one from my colleague Munzar, then Patrik Nacher. Now, then, Mr Munzar, with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u40	I have defended my amendment very briefly here, because yesterday we enjoyed the debate, but we can continue to do so, my colleague, through the President. You keep forgetting in your argument that you have made a very fundamental change in this tax here in 2016, so that you have transferred the tax burden from who receives the funds from the sale of the property to whoever is buying it, which is a very fundamental change. Because the one who sells gets the money from the sale, whereas the one who buys must earn the property price, or at least the participation, he must earn the administrative fees you propose to double, and he must earn the tax where his duty has been since 2016. That's a very fundamental difference. At least since 2015, the ODS has proposed the abolition of this tax. And we're in a different economic situation than we were a few years ago. First of all. And secondly, you have to realize that real estate prices have grown so much today that 4 percent are unbearable for many even in the middle class. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher's factual remark, will be prepared once again by Mr Votava. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, nice noon, exactly. I originally wanted to say what Mr Votava said. I would have extended it by one more element, which means that the tax, originally the real estate transfer tax, has been here since 1992, if I remember correctly, or 1993, now I've been looking. That means there's been 20 years to cancel it. Twenty years! I've always criticized it because it feels immoral in principle. But 20 years! That means you've had 20 years to cancel it, and you haven't canceled it, so now I understand, of course, that from the opposition position, the abolition is easier to propose than when a person is in government. Otherwise, when it comes to Vojtěch Munzar's argument that the construction had changed, it was actually before, too, when you look at it that the real estate transfer tax was paid by the seller, but the buyer was a guarantor, so when the seller didn't pay it, the buyer paid it anyway. Notaben, if the theory is that they are always the same and one money, now I don't want to give a lecture on the economy, so also the seller, also the seller, even the seller, even the buyer makes the money. That's how it's all... Maybe in another time. He made money, he bought money, then he sold it to somebody, then he got some money out of it. While the guy who buys it makes money when he buys it. But they both make money. So if anything, let's make a fair argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u43	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Votava. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u44	Mr Munzar, through Mr President, I agree with you on one thing: that it is wrong for the acquirer to pay the tax. I agree with that. I wasn't here for the last term either. On the contrary, I was against it, and yesterday I explained why. Because it's costing the property. And it was supposed to stay the way it was. The real estate transfer tax should have been paid by the guy who sold the property. I agree with you on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u45	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Munzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u46	Thank you. By your means, I would like to respond to my colleague Patrik Nacher. That's what was said when I read the tapes from the last parliamentary term, when I was not part of the Chamber of Deputies, the argument was that it was just a transfer of money and that it would reduce property prices by 4 percent because it would be paid by the buyer. This assumption was not fulfilled. The transfer in a tax entity did not lead to a reduction in property prices. And we can talk about the '90s or the past, but I think we're in some kind of economic situation right now, some kind of situation is in the flats market, which really isn't pink for the middle class. And what we can do for them, so we should do. And that is precisely the abolition of this tax. I really don't understand why some of you don't suspect that Mr Nacher, who supported the abolition of this tax, but some other government MPs, I honestly don't understand why you're spending blood on one percent of the state budget revenue when your government revenue is growing ten times as much year on year as your income from this tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u47	Thank you. Mr Luzar will now be speaking in the debate. Mr. Skopeček will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u48	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the justification for my three amendments on one subject. I am not an economist's education, and I will not be overly concerned with economic issues relating to the tax quota, or with matters relating to the tax burden on the population, but I would like to draw your attention to the problem of perhaps purely technical. I apologize to everyone else who doesn't see the technical problems so far, but it's partly related to this material that we're discussing today. In its negotiations, when the Economic Committee proposed and prepared the documents relating to the tax burden on industry, it proposed certain measures to help - I stress aid - in a commodity that is, say, less perceived than fuels, compared to energy as nuclear, and this concerns heat. We can characterize heat as three-component. The first component is heat, which is redundant for technological reasons, that is, in the production of a product you create heat and you have to consume it, release it or use it somehow. Of course, the heat is some kind of energy, which means it's some kind of value. The second case of heat is classic energy companies that produce electricity. And it doesn't matter if they use coal, gas, oil products or nuclear power as fuel. And they have the heat as waste heat, please with the quotes waste heat, because it is quite a big problem for them to process the heat. After electricity generation it heat, eventually the steam temperature decreases in generators and is usually cooled, which is why we often perceive a high chimney in power plants, if it is a classical power plant or cooling towers, they already have all the power plants, because of course the water from the steam will have to be cooled somewhere. So it's the heat that's leaking into the air, and the energy of the heat is completely destroyed. And then, of course, it's the classic heat that we all know, which means we have some boiler where we attach to keep warm in the winter and not freeze to death. These are three types of heat that we consume and use. I would like to focus on the first two I mentioned from the point of view of use. When you're technically engaged in using heat, you find that it would be ideal to consume the heat in some way for the benefit of the citizens. In that philosophy came with the so-called terminus technicus central supply of heat. At the time, large enterprises were forced to use and force their heat sources to connect the population to the planned economies, so that, of course, the resulting price of heat for citizens would be as low as possible. This has, of course, been the case for both manufacturing companies and electricity-producing companies. And to this day, there are large areas, and now I am talking about my region, the Moravian-Silesian Region, all the major cities that had an industrial enterprise, and believe me, there are a lot of them, mostly connected to central heat supply. This heat is often guided over long distances and often inconvenient modes of transport, i.e. a pipeline that also has its age and would need an exchange. But it may still be the most efficient, but certainly the most environmentally friendly heat production, because these heat plants that supply the heat must, in turn, meet quite strict environmental limits. At present, this idea, which has historically been quite common, is being dusted again and there are plans to connect to the remote distribution of the heat of large cities, I am talking about nuclear energy, and plans to connect the nearest large cities within up to 50 to 70 kilometres, which could use waste heat - again with large quotation marks - waste heat in the production of electricity to heat citizens and save the classic fossil fuels that are used for heating. Of course, the competitiveness of the heat thus produced is a multi-component problem. The problem is not only in the fuel that you consume, but also, of course, in the cost of distribution, in the cost of production and in the cost burden of these companies, businesses, in new ways of eliminating either fossil fuels, or the elimination of environmental problems caused by these producers, especially in these days by emission allowances, which you know are quite considerably expensive, but also of course by input raw materials and other tax obligations that these companies have. Here I am aiming, for example, at the obligations of businesses to have filtration and similar matters, which, in turn, the classical self-government in their surroundings, such as the regional authorities, impose on large businesses to desulphurize, to put filters on these large sources of heat, thereby achieving the high economic, but mainly ecological, standards that are needed. [[12.10 hours]] This, of course, is also related to the issue of the price of this heat compared to what we are able to achieve in modern times of technology in the individual processing or production of domestic heat. Here I want to draw attention to the issues, and I will look away from the personal boiler rooms or from the boilers that we have everyone who owns the family house, possibly. You're either drowning in classic fuels or gas or electricity at home. This is an issue in itself. And, of course, everyone realizes that neither the state nor large enterprises are able to provide individual heat transport for larger distances for individual owners, and there is a great need for the state to help in the environmentalization of these boilers, and we all know the boiler subsidies, we all know from the other side also the problem a little pejoratively called Ostrava rockets, when in these boiler citizens burned anything and of course it very polluted the air. It may already be a long time ago when you come to the village, a small village, and you find yourself in the fog caused by the flue gas that compresses the air pressure down, and you feel what citizens are capable of burning in the boilers. I'm heading to that group of people who can, of course, benefit from subsidies and use the ability of modern technologies, get an individual boiler like this, and join as if on a wider scale. Now I'm talking about most of the owners' communities, possibly. The housing companies that make their own boiler room. If it is such a boiler room, which is built in locations where there is simply no possibility of using other heat sources and it is not possible, as they say, to connect them to a larger source, then of course it is a completely justified function, because the heat must be. But I am talking about the possibilities that most Czech cities offer today, emphasising most Czech cities and large communities that are connected to the central heat source. Most municipalities manage these central heat sources themselves, and here, certainly, colleagues and colleagues, you will be right to know many cities from around you that have their own heat source and use it effectively, if any. part of that heat source had some other owner invested, but mostly they own those heat distribution parts to participate and participate in those heat supplies, but of course they are also directly connected to the production companies, which is the case with my heat supplier, who is supplied from the production company as loss heat, and is heated and he is still supplying it to the citizens. This heat supply has a certain efficiency, and of course we can think of those who supply it to us, how efficiently they manage it and how much they overpaid and how much they have different other costs that count us in heat, and what losses are caused by transport, yet it is one of the most efficient sources of heat compared to the sources that we are able to give effectively. Unfortunately, the last few years, it's not a question of last year, it's really a question of the last few years, we're witnessing these associations of owners being addressed, possibly. teams to start disconnecting from central heat supply. Of course, this is certainly possible in justified cases, and preventing people from going more efficiently and we will say even cheaper to get heat to their homes is certainly a problem. But here, of course, there is also social interest. It is not only the individual interest to save perhaps a thousand crowns here, perhaps two thousand crowns a year, perhaps somewhere more, but also somewhere less, but also from the other side the effort to environmentalize and improve the environment, because even the smaller boiler rooms, even if supplied with gas, which is now considered to be fossil fuel, is in a way considered to be more environmentally friendly heating than coal, and so the height of the chimneys they have is usually the height of the building at which they stand, and we are talking about the heights of about 12-15 meters compared to, for example, chimneys that reach significantly higher heights and, in the case of inversions in the cities, are above the inverse layer, whereas the very heating sites and domestic boiler rooms, which are at the height of the chimneys, are partly involved in these cities. That's one, that environmental problem I want to raise on this issue is that it's a problem. The second thing, of course, is that the efficiency of central heat supply is also related to the number of customers that have these resources. I don't want to argue at all, I say, with the operators, but we're talking about this whole social interest that I think we all understand here is. And now if you imagine that you have a man and a company that goes around your tenants and says, here you pay a certain amount of money, we build you a boiler room here, that boiler room goes on the gas, you just ask to disconnect from the central heat source and you save every year. And now the funding models: we'll give you a discount and at that price, if you pay as much as you have so far, you'll pay for it. These are all business methods of convincing those people, in effect only and only leaning on it - you save against those who now give you this heat, you get cheaper prices and you get benefits. I understand these people, and I am very clear about their debate, which I am aware that they are right about. Yes, we want cheaper heat. In a way, we push the heat supplier, the original one, to think about efficiency, so that people don't leave. On the other hand, these customers are also supported by subsidies. And here's the problem that I'm going to be talking about in this law that we're discussing, and setting the level of subsidies or possibilities for the advantages that these heat sources in domestic, domestic boiler rooms - not domestic, domestic - are talking about the plural of the customers - in those domestic boiler rooms they're taking up, to those who now represent the backbone of the heat supply, and these are the boiler rooms, the large heat sources that supply heat to most of the households in that central supply with heat energy. These are, as these heat sources are usually above 25 megawatts, affected by emission allowances that I have already mentioned, but also, of course, by tax disadvantages to these domestic boilers. That is why, as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, we have stood up to the fact that they should be preserved for those citizens who have this opportunity and who are using it, the possibilities of a certain advantage that they have switched to gas, but it is quite a problem for us, firstly, speculation about the price of this heat, and the signals we have appear that many who not only use the heat for their own consumption but also trade with it, which is also quite interesting because they supply not only themselves, their families, but they supply the heat to other customers, or respond in a certain way by simply having a boiler room like this, but we are not ours, we have sold it to someone who runs it, and we are actually in the same role, only in another dimension with existing boiler rooms. They're taking advantage of this. We consider this to be a problem, and that is why, if we want to keep it from paying the environmental tax for these boiler rooms, we would still like to prevent those speculative overselling of this energy, in other words, so that those people, those tenants, can't make any more money and put it at a disadvantage by central heat supply, because when we look at the numbers, there are about 400,000 of those customers, those home boiler rooms, over 1.6 or 1.7 million of those households supplied with a central heat source, they are exactly the numbers that say how we assess efficiency and how we assess the impact on citizens of our Republic. [[12.20 hours]] My three amendments are on the verge of one topic, namely the topic of the environmental gas tax. In the first amendment, to which I will apply in detail reading, I suggest that... let me put it on the table... so that the environmental tax, the exemption from the environmental tax, should apply only to the existing one. Those who had already undergone the Martyrium, who had undergone some steps and realized it because it felt like a need. Yes, we got it. I don't think we're gonna make them come back in or deal with it, so, yeah, there's gotta be a way to make sure they're able to use it. But what I would be up against personally is that the spread of the offer should spread, in other words, so that more and more people can disconnect from the central heat source. The second amendment is aimed at those speculations with this heat that has benefited. And here we'd be aiming for that advantage to go to VAT, because they're the tenants who live there, and they're not VAT payers. So in order to maintain this exception only on VAT non-payments, and this would very quickly distinguish those who are residents, that is, those who have the domestic boiler room as tenants, from those who use this for speculative reasons. And the third option on the same subject is to postpone the validity of this proposal here. That doesn't make me feel like an emphasis, because it just puts off the problem that we have here. But I think it is worth considering - and all these three proposals point to one thing, that the Committee on Budgets looks at it at second reading and consider the other side of the matter, that we, as Members, really want to help people and allow them to use energy cheaper, speculate on our consideration, try to put one source of heat at a disadvantage against another and make money on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u49	Yes. Mr. Faltýnek is claiming priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u50	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to make a procedural proposal for the suspension of this item until 14.30 today, on the basis of Article 63 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, with a view to negotiating today's second reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u51	President Stanjura on the procedural proposal. I know I should vote immediately, but I have a problem with this procedural proposal because I am not sure if it corresponds to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have two notes. One political and one procedural. I propose to President Faltýnek - and I really mean it to propose and abolish the Gremium of the Chamber of Deputies. The first thing we agreed on on Tuesday - and quickly, I have to say - is a 14.30 program. So make political agreements with Jaroslav Faltýnek. It's really worth it. Then we can't trust anything. We're ready for this, we all have afternoon programs, you're breaking the deal. If there wasn't a deal, I wouldn't say anything. That's a political point. Now, a comment on the Rules of Procedure. The proposal is not voteable. If the proposal sounds after the fixed interruption points, it's okay. But we've got 14.30 fixed points. If President Faltýnek means that he will start the chair at 14.30 and say: Here we are, we continue at a point, but since we have the points, I interrupt this point - that is all right. But I understand he doesn't mean that. So the proposal, as it has been said, is not voteable and is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and to what the Chamber of Deputies has already approved, which means that it has fixed the points, I think five or six, which are to be discussed today from 14.30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u53	Thank you. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip on this proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u54	Thank you. Mr President, members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen. The way I see it is that, under the Rules of Procedure, we will vote twice that there are reasons for which we will be changing the approved agenda for this day. This means that the House must first approve that such a method is voteable, because, of course, the time for which the change of the programme is reserved is from 9.00 to 9.30, respectively. 11:00 to 11:30 on Thursday. In this respect, the reference to § 63 para. 1 is not enough. You have to say, the time we're changing the agenda is different. If that's how it's gonna be, there's nothing else we can do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u55	Mr. Chairman Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u56	Thank you for the floor. Yes, I agree with what Vice-President Vojtěch Filip said. This is a procedure which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Then my objections to the Rules of Procedure no longer apply, only those objections to political agreements apply. But this is a procedure which fully corresponds to the Rules of Procedure. If the House recognizes extraordinary circumstances - I would like to hear what they are, I would be quite interested. But then when most decide that they have occurred, it is truly legitimate and can change the program actually, which has been approved until now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u57	Okay. So if there's a consensus, we'll vote first about... [[Messenger. The Faltynek is speaking to the President off the microphone.]] Yes, so there is only one way we can proceed, and that is that we will vote first on... I don't want to talk to the Prime Minister... You may, Mr. Vice-President. We have a very difficult situation because I cannot vote on something that will bring us into conflict with the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u58	Thank you. As the first vote, the vote will be that the House agrees that there have been reasons for voting, beyond the time for changing the agenda of the meeting, to change the agenda at the moment. Then, if this vote goes well, it is possible to vote on the proposal of my colleague Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u59	President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u60	Thank you. I agree with the procedure of Vice-President Filip. However, given the fact that this is a very non-standard instrument, I expect President Faltýnek to give proper reasons for the exceptional circumstances that have arisen in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u61	Chairman Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u62	I, of course, agree with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, as President Filip said. But I don't think we can vote on that first point because someone would have to suggest it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u63	Yes. Here was the proposal from Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. A proposal which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I had the impression that Vice-President Filip was saying how we could proceed, but I did not see it as a proposal. That means I just need to be more specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u65	The second time he said it was his proposal. I'm just explaining. I did not vote on President Faltýnek's procedural proposal because I considered it unvoting, and I allowed this debate on how the House would proceed. President Kalousek, on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u66	I understood it as much as President Bartošek did. So, excuse me, I take it this is what President Filip suggested. But in order to be able to vote on this well enough, could President Filip please state the reasons that have arisen... It's kind of an emergency... What is the reason, because the House is supposed to vote off the regular agenda to change the agenda of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u67	So ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to President Filip, please welcome to the guest gallery the delegation of the Committee on Foreign European Affairs of the Parliament of the Republic of Cyprus, headed by the chairman of the Giorgos Lillikas Committee. [[The MPs have risen. Let's hear it.]] Thank you. President Filip has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u68	Thank you. I'm glad we can say hello to our colleagues from Cyprus. Therefore, I shall repeat this in a procedural manner once again - I propose a vote on the fact that there are reasons for which the House will vote outside the ordinary voting deadline on changing the agenda of the meeting. The reason for this is that this law has a fundamental relationship with the state budget, and I would like to discuss it before setting a timetable for the state budget hearing in the Chamber of Deputies, which is then the first afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u69	There has been a procedural proposal that needs to be voted immediately. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the 193 vote, 188 Members are enrolled, for 90, against 72. The motion was not accepted. [[Let's hear it to the right.]] It's 12:30 p.m., I'm interrupting a government bill that changes the tax bill. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and we are moving on to the firmly assigned points, which are the electoral points. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can focus on the polls. [[No response. Ambassador Mašek reporting for word.]] Are you applying for a vote? Yes, so I give you my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u70	I voted in favour, and there's nothing in it for me, like I got held up. So I was on the scene, and I voted. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u71	Okay, there's been a motion to challenge the vote. We'll vote on him. There's a motion to unsubscribe, I've checked you all out. Before I vote, please, before I vote, there is still a request for a vote to be checked, then I will vote on the Member's objection. [[A Member of Stanjura controls the stifle.]] The vote is still being taken by President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u72	Mr Mašek is on drugs, so he can't say he has anything on drugs other than what he wanted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u73	Yes, thank you, then we cannot vote on the objection, as you have raised it, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor if you wish to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u74	I was the one who made the objection because I inspected it visually, didn't look into the junk, so I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u75	Okay, so you're dropping the objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u76	If it's the right thing to do, then of course I'm withdrawing the objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u77	Yes, thank you, I understand. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u78	Thank you, just for the record, Mr Vice-President, that we had a tight vote at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u79	I have already opened or opened the negotiations for fixed items, but I have had to give room to the Members who have been monitoring the votes. Lady to check on the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u80	Mr President, my colleagues have told me that I am supposed to be on drugs, that I am abstaining. Can I take a look at this because I know how I voted?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u81	This cannot be done, Madame. I'm taking your word for it. [[Let's hear it to the right.]] President Kalousek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u82	Mr President, forgive me, but with all due respect, it is 12.34. If you do not immediately start the fixed points, I am afraid that you are in breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I will object to the President's procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-002-031.u83	Mr President, I am not in breach of the Rules of Procedure because I have to comply with the objections to the review of the vote. I am acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I have, however, taken the floor of a fellow Member who has not acted in questioning the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We will now continue to discuss the fixed points. The first is
