ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u1	155. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 66/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and other related Acts, as amended by Act No. 290/2017 Sb. House print 302/ - third reading I thank the Minister of Health for taking the position at the rapporteur's table, as well as thank the rapporteur for the guarantee committee, Mrs Věra Adámková. I note that the amendments are in the Houses of Press 302/8, which was delivered on 10 May 2019. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 302/9. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] I am asking the Minister of Health if he is reporting before the debate is opened. Yes, it is. I'll give him my word as soon as the House calms down. Those who are discussing the last bill that aroused interest, please in the foyer. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch has the floor to the Act on Medicinal Products before the debate is opened. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just briefly remind the motion put forward that its aim is primarily to anchor the superstructure functionality of the eRecipe, the so-called pharmaceutical record of the patient, into the pharmaceuticals law. With regard to the individual amendments that have been read in the second reading, the Ministry of Health can only support those that affect the issue of the patient's drug record and continue it conceptually. However, it will not allow me to comment on at least two amendments before the vote on individual amendments, which I cannot support for the Ministry of Health. This is, on the one hand, Mr Pávek's amendment and Mr Pawlas's proposal. Both of these proposals seek to adjust the question of ensuring the availability of medicinal products. I disagree with them for several reasons. The first reason is the fact that Mr Pawlas' amendment was, on the basis of Mr Pawlas's statement by the Office for the Protection of Competition, identified as being incompatible with the right to protection of competition, so I cannot support it. The second reason which leads me not to support either of these proposals governing, in particular, the provisions of Section 77 of the Act on Medicines, is that these proposals are not conceptual, these proposals are actually partial and cannot actually lead to their intended purpose, on the contrary, the concept of ensuring the availability of medicinal products is being prepared by the Ministry of Health at the moment. The comprehensive amendment has already been passed through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and by the end of June I intend to send it to the Government and the Legislative Council of the Government. It will be the so-called allergenic system and other downstream elements, so it will be a separate amendment, which will undoubtedly have a deep debate. For this reason, therefore, I cannot support either of the amendments that I have mentioned and which we will therefore vote on in a few moments, among other things. Ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of the drug record, which is the primary purpose of the House's press, we had a big debate both at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and on the floor of the Health Committee. Therefore, allow me to conclude by asking for the support of this proposal, as amended by the Ministry of Health supported by the amendments, in order to ensure better, safer and better care for patients through the drug record, because the actual drug record means a significant qualitative shift in terms of patient safety, in terms of preventing unwanted drug interactions and duplications. I think that patients deserve it, that doctors are calling for it, and that it will really be a significant move forward. So thank you again very much for your attention and I beg you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u3	Thank you, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. I am opening a debate in which Mrs Věra Adámková is the first to join. Again, Madam President, let's wait a bit. I'm gonna ask my colleagues to really bring the debates outside the law on pharmaceuticals into the foyer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before discussing this very important matter, let me introduce you to the fact that we are withdrawing the amendment under C2. There were only two of us - me and colleague Nacher. This was an advertisement for food supplements. Although we have, of course, followed the developments on the legal stage until the last moment, it became apparent after this amendment was read that several court cases were in operation and there was no clear relationship between other matters to Law No. 1169/2011. Moreover, there is one legal opinion, of course it is not yet over, that we would also make it impossible for the performance imposed by the State Agricultural Inspection Authority to supervise food because there is a coincidence. We will, of course, continue to monitor this issue, but since we cannot bring about a state of legal uncertainty, we are therefore withdrawing this amendment. And I will ask the President, after that, to be able to express his consent to this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u5	Thank you, Mrs Adámková. Mrs Richterová is also enrolled in the debate and Mr Profant will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to draw your attention very briefly to the three amendments made by my colleague Tomáš Vymazal, who is unfortunately ill, cannot be here today. They're under the letters H1, H2, H3. I understand that the substance of the matter to you may be, in a way, that you are breaking up with her. One point is the 100% reimbursement of cannabis treatments, as is common among other medicines. However, at H3, I believe that this is indeed a consideration for those of you who may simply not agree with us on other matters. This is about specifying, in order to avoid really guessing when, in what situations it is going to take place. It's a really precise proposal. If a tender has been announced in any way and it has not been successful, our state will actually take all the situations into account. So Amendment H3 I really recommend your material attention. And at point H2, I just want to point out that if this change does not pass, there will be a curious situation where we, for all other medicines, leave ourselves on doctors to determine the amount of medicinal product the patient needs, and only here would we put two special limits - one limit, as much as the doctor can prescribe per month, and the other limit of payment, that much less will then be paid by the insurance company. It's a novelty that we don't really think is appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u7	Thank you. Mr Profant will speak in the debate. Mr. Pawlas will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u8	Beautiful noon, colleagues. I would just like to briefly revisit my colleague Benda's amendment, which is in the procedure under the letter E. This is a change of the opt-out principle to opt-in. The Ministry is currently proposing that everyone fall into the system automatically and only those who are active can get out of it. And we would like it to be backwards to be voluntary, because, as I have already explained in detail at second reading, I think information systems must be so welcoming that people want to use them themselves, they must bring such benefits. And if we do it opt-out, then it's just gonna be another faggot of people who can't use it, it's gonna be difficult for them, because actually the Ministry won't be forced to do it simple enough, which, unfortunately, this is going to be de facto happening to all government projects in the area of digitalization. Those projects aren't done. We need to look at private services that have millions of customers, how simple they are, and, of course, they also have to deal with security, like banks in their internet banking, etc. But still, when I enter the bank's online banking that I use, I can de facto click everything if I want a new credit card, if I want a new account, send money, transfer money, etc. It's all worked out there. And I think there's probably a lot to deal with, too. And if we do it in such a legislative way that everything is a problem, everything has to be stated in the law, it will never be user-friendly. And I really wouldn't like that. And I would also like to protect the privacy of patients.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u9	Thank you. Mr Pawlas will wait. With a point of fact, President Bartoš is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u10	I would just like to briefly add my previous speaker Ondra Profant about this opt-in and opt-out. I understand it's so easy to just turn it on to everyone, they're gonna have to go there, and then somebody's gonna be able to unsubscribe. But even in the legislation that is valid in the commercial sector, we've all learned that it's not that we automatically get ads when we sign up for some kind of service, but we have to have explicit opt-in, I want them. And I want to say a simple example from Finland compared to Denmark. There was a question of whether the citizen wanted to communicate exclusively electronically. And while Finland simply asked the wrong question and it fell to them that 80 percent of the citizens still, even though they handle taxes electronically, receive the same taxes in paper in the mail, Denmark asked the other way: even if you already get it electronically, do you still want to get it in paper? And the ratio is 80 percent to 20. Only 20 percent of people still want that paper communication in the area. So the fear that people wouldn't take advantage of it is really what moment we're going to ask in that conscious consent to use the explicit opt-in. I don't think it really has to be the element of volunteering in all things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u11	Thank you. Mr Mašek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u12	Mr President, colleagues, to my previous speakers on the pirate side, I would like to say, through Mr President, that this is not about some IT exhibition, who is able, who can apply where, if he receives any unsolicited advertising and so on. This is about a significant extension of the eRecipe project, in fact, about what we have been watching very closely and what we are looking forward to, and that is the added value. It's an added value for our patients. It is an added value in reducing unwanted drug interactions, so that we can take better care of patients, so that we can coordinate treatment - outpatient specialists, practical doctors and others - and prevent even unwanted deaths. So I think the system here, when most or everyone is doing it and they can log out regularly, is just the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u13	Thank you. The following are the factual points in this order: Mr Janulík, Mr Profant, Mr Ferjenčík and Minister Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On Margo's foreword, I'd say that when two do the same thing, it's not the same thing. Do not mix pears with apples. And please, you've never been, and you won't be in a position to sit behind a desk and write to someone, expose the recipe. And you can't even figure out what we've been doing for decades. So please stick to your hoof. And this really isn't your hoof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u15	Mr Profant - factual point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u16	I would like to point out that to help them with the problem they address, that is, to determine drug interactions, etc., they would have to have all medicines there first. But the Department of Health didn't suggest it. There'll only be a few medications. For example, there will be no medicine for the so-called blue prescription. So, anyway, it's just fake information that confuses you to the max. You're not gonna get a full overview anyway. And that's what it takes, and that's what we need to work on. And at the same time, you have to start working to make people really want to use it, and so that everyone knows the limits of the system, and those limits are very significant today when you don't have all the drugs. I was very detailed in my second reading that, of course, there are no other types of medications, not just blue strip recipes, of course there are no medications without a prescription, and of course there are no medications that are given in specialized facilities. But, of course, these are all things that you're going to have an interaction with, and you need to know about the patient as well. So the system showing you selected prescription medications won't help you ensure the safety of your patients on your own.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u17	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík - factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would simply like to respond briefly to the previous speaker, Mr Mašek, who was just talking about the added value of the system. So if the system has such added value for patients and doctors, it is in their interest to apply. And again, people who may consider privacy to be a very important thing, so they won't sign up for it again, because medical documentation is extremely sensitive information. And stuffing the entire population across a digital system isn't the right thing to do. The correct procedure is to convince people that it pays to be in the system, and at the same time, the voluntary system leads the Ministry to build it more user-friendly for both doctors and patients.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u19	With a factual remark, the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a few notes. First of all, everyone here is chasing personal data protection. We discussed the proposal very closely, in detail, with the Office for Personal Data Protection, which is probably the highest authority in this country, which really aims to ensure whether or not the protection of personal data is being implemented. The Office for Personal Data Protection supported the opt-out regime. It's just a point of fact. The question of being able to use. Patients in this direction will not use the drug record in any way. The drug record is primarily used to share information with a physician who sets up pharmacotherapy. It's not an app for patients to fill out or anything like that. So this isn't about setting it better and making patients use it better. This is really about whether we want safety and quality of care or not. And let's remember that we're not just talking about the doctor in the office, we're talking about the medical emergency services, when the medical emergency services find the patient on the street, the patient is unconscious, and there's just no information about him, or what medications he uses, what medications he can then administer to him, etc. So I really think that in this regard we maintain the maximum protection of personal rights in that we say who doesn't want to share the data, very simply can step out of the system. But the fact that we're going to be alienating it in some way, making it user-friendly, that's not what we're talking about here, because it's not some kind of app that can be better or worse. This is really about the principle of whether we want to share data on prescribed medications or not, plus I have to say... [[Sorry, Minister, time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u21	Thank you. Mr Kasal, Mrs Procházková, then President Bartoš, will now make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. By your means, I would like to respond to my colleague Profant and Ferjenčík. It's very simple. To be more precise. If you're sitting in that office, there's a kid or there's an older person, they're gonna be hard to check out. And I'm responsible for correctly prescribing a cure. And the moment I have an app where I see if there's an allergic reaction, I'm gonna protect the person in my life. As far as I know, maybe the Minister will confirm it, in this way, up to 400 people can die every year. In a situation where, as has been said, there isn't exactly everything, so blue stripe medications are mainly opiates, so I don't think that opiates are each of the patients, but almost everyone knows antibiotics, and there are a lot of allergic reactions. So from this point of view, if I save only one life from the 400 people, but in this case it's going to take 350, that's progress. So I don't think what you're saying here is adequate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u23	Thank you. Mrs Procházková, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, everyone. I've been on this subject several times and again - everything starts sometimes, so does the drug record. And, of course, other functions will follow up on that in the future, so it has to start. And with the volunteering, we've been over this before at eRecipe. How much talk was there? It took ten years for the eRecipe to start working, and that's only because it was mandatory. The same thing will be here, and I think that patients who are of course older, and I'm experiencing it every day in an ambulance who don't remember their medications, even though I'm telling them, write it down, put it with the I.D., so they don't have it anyway, and then I'm pulling it out of them in the office, so they're gonna be really happy that the doctor's gonna touch it and find out, so he can even check it out, discuss it with him. I think it's a huge asset to them. Of course, those who do not apply or take advantage of their refusal will have to realize that the functionality, the positives that the drug record has, will not be able to use. It's a shame. An example is an ambulance. If we come to the patient and find out, we can reach there, we can learn basic information about him, so even if he's unconscious, thanks to the medications he'll have there, I'll know what he's treating for, and of course I can proceed much easier and in his favor. So if anyone refuses, then of course they have to realize that they won't be able to use the benefits. And I think anyone who could possibly... [[President: I am sorry, Madame, time is up.]] Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u25	Thank you. And President Bartoš, after him Mr Profant, Mr Kasal - factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u26	I would probably just look at it with that look -- and so the state is clearly failing to promote useful things in the long run, because in the finals, I don't dispute the project at all, I want the citizen to have the opportunity to say it, I really want my -- and I'm sure I'll use it when I'm free to decide -- medications could be seen by anyone I come into contact with in some kind of treatment, so I don't have any contraindications, even if my doctor always asks me, "Are you allergic to something?" And I'll tell him, I guess, to dust. So I'm young, I remember what I'm having trouble with, I can tell. But I would like to know, just as the state doesn't control doctors, architects, lawyers, and here are all the data of all people at once not just the eRecipe, exposed by someone, a doctor, some equipment, but there are all people. So there's a big difference: Mrs Nováková, Mrs Brodská, whatever, do you want your data that I have here about medication to be stored in the system and shared? Because I was wondering if maybe my mom, who doesn't even have a contract with an operator because she doesn't want anyone to have her data, that they have them, that's another thing, so she just doesn't want it, so the doctor will ask her, and Mrs. Bartošová, since this visit, all your medications you're taking, and my mom, she's already 70, everyone will see who she's gonna be with - to every doctor you go to, do you want that? So will the doctor ask if my mom wants it or if she wants to check out? If this is the same as GDPR, sign DGPR, fine, but you can log out. You want to check out? And I don't think this will sound from doctor to patient to tell them the opt-out option or tell him what the benefits are, because there's a lot more that time. While, as has been said here when you say: and here I will click you that this information about your medicines will be available to those, those and those, so I think it's even less work than explaining to people the possibility of opt-out from the system, because there are reasons why someone in the Czech Republic doesn't really want them to know about his medication... [[President: Mr President, time!]] I'll fill it in one more factual one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u27	Thank you. Mr Profant, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u28	Well, I'm just gonna make this brief. Already today you can download the drug record through the Citizen's Portal. So maybe I'll bring it to the doctor because today it's not shared in any way. But what I still consider an important question for the Minister, if I may, is when will the remaining drugs be there? When there'll be central medications, when there'll be blue strip medications, and maybe we'll talk about other substances that may be interacting with them, because of course, drugs without a prescription can have interactions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u29	We continue with factual remarks. Mr. Kasal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm just adding my previous post. There you must also realise that these are legal consequences. You're talking about the law here, and I'm not questioning anyone who can step out of that system. But the doctor who's gonna use it, it's a question of that... or, virtually. The patient who doesn't want to use it is also a question of legal consequences, because he has a right, but the moment the allergic reaction occurs because he doesn't say what it is, who's gonna answer for it? The doctor? Or the patient that he wasn't in the system? And he had the chance. That's another question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u31	Thank you. Mr Mašek, with a factual remark. After him, President Bartoš, after him, Minister Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I to Mr Bartoš through Mr President. That's the question. You're the one who said something about mommy. So, of course, you can recommend that she stay in the system or get out. Any citizen of this republic can do this. In the previous post, or Dr. Kasal, it was said that 400 people die a year in connection with drug interactions. Of course, the assumption that everyone will be able to step up means that we can prevent a large number of deaths. On the other hand, here we can quote that it will gradually be rolled up like a snowball, that we will be leading some big media ads so that people will approach it, and some people will die in vain when the possibility is here today. And that's just the way it is. There's no need to discuss it. So I would ask you to consider all of this. I've been a paramedic for 30 years, and I know what that means when it helps me on the spot, and I know what the patient who's unconscious is treated for. It'll make me wonder if she's taking blood thinners, if it could be a brain bleed, which means a completely different direction, etc. It could save his life. I won't convince you of that. Just like I don't understand IT, so please accept experts at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u33	Thank you. President Bartoš, a point of fact. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u34	Through Mr President, I would have responded to this - and how has it been so far? I'm a little surprised that if the citizen wouldn't have mentioned it, it's his fault he's having an allergic reaction. I mean, the contraindications have been dealt with in paper form so far. Well, if it was the doctor you're seeing, then somehow he's got the records filed. I don't take that argument very well. But I was gonna say one more thing. It's just... The Czech Republic, where information flies through different airs and everything is linked through its birth number, is in itself quite unpleasant, and politicians know especially what falls out of some database on you. But for example, I've got practice cases, I've been talking to people who deal with, like, psychological and psychiatric problems, and, like, how many people are suffering from some attacks, anxiety, and just so they don't get into trouble sometime in the future, so they're scared and they're having sleep problems with that psychiatrist. As people, they're ostracized for a lot of things, and I just understand the moments when you have some unpopular disease, and it can be a disease from venerology just to some seriously infectious disease. You can actually have some problem that you really don't want anyone other than your doctor to know about it and deal with you. And you're gonna make this guy, the implicit opt-in, that we're gonna pour everyone in there, just so he has to deal with whether or not it's gotten anywhere. And my point is, there are just reasonable moments when this guy doesn't want anyone to know about it. When's the relationship with the doctor and the patient? And this option right here, if this isn't actively told to the patient that from now on, you're there and you've got a problem, we're just gonna interrupt this guy. And I know people who have psychic problems, who would have problems at work if that company looked at them in some way, and it's just the risk of accessing that information not for doctors, but generally it is. He's tall, and I feel like the explicit opt-in to the system is significantly disrupting this, which is why I disagree with him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u35	In fact, the comments will continue. I'll introduce you to their order so you can prepare. Minister Vojtěch, Mrs Adámková, Members of Votava, Brázdil, Kasal and Mrs Gajdůšková. It's Minister Vojtěch's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u36	Thank you for the floor. A few notes. To President Bartoš through Mr President. You were talking about your mom going to the doctor. But even today - and mommy, when it comes to the doctor, all the data goes to the health insurance company. Anyone who receives paid care in the Czech Republic, its data is stored somewhere, because otherwise it would not be possible to pay the care. The system is somehow set up like this. It's also shared between insurance companies. So it's not like we're creating something new here, there's gonna be some new data here. The data's already here. The data is already real here, just because of the electronic recipe, let's say it's going to move on qualitatively, because here we have a system that is actually able to use the data to share between the attending doctors. And only those attending doctors. Not every doctor, not every pharmacist. Only where there really is a relationship between the patient and the doctor. And take it we actually have medical records today. We have medical records of all the health problems of the patient. Do you agree with your doctor today to look into your medical records? You don't. It's legal like this. The doctor simply, there is some confidence in the doctor that they will not abuse the information, and doctors have the right to consult the medical documentation without giving any consent. And there's everything in that medical file. So let's not paint a little devil on the wall here that there's going to be some massive abuse. Only the doctors and the pharmacists will see the information, no one else will. The information is in a system that is a critical system, state information system, controlled by the SAOKIB, the highest possible security that we have from legislation. So I think that... [[Time warning]] There's a little bit of a presentation here that's more hypothetical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u37	And Mrs Adámková - a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only have a few answers that have come to mind now. To President Bartoš through Mr President. The optimal system to enable the best care of patients, of course, is searched by many countries, searched by many insurance companies. I absolutely do not address the English health system, I point out. However, for certain types of higher middle class insurance, there the health documentation is completely managed by the insurance company, which opens the card for the doctor who provides care. And it's even so that because everyone sees everything in this case, even a little bit in another system, when the patient doesn't completely accept the recommended treatment from the previous control, he completely pays for the next check. The insurance company doesn't pay for it at all. So, of course, this is a relatively large repression that no one here is expecting. And as far as the medical records are concerned. I must say, of course, that this is protected by law, and only a doctor who gives you care can look into it. And even now, where the electronization is running, there's no way anyone in any hospital could have said to themselves, and I'm going to see who's lying here. Please nicely, it is very hard to watch and very hard to sanction. So really the protection is trying to be ad maximum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u39	Thank you. Mr Votava, with a factual remark. That's what Mr. Brázdil was after. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, he's already taken the wind from my sails by the Minister, because the Minister basically said what I was going to say. We're all insured, or we should be insured with a health insurance company, and the health insurance company has that data. Always refer here to some personal data, personal data protection - friends, I'm sure you know, or I don't know if you know how many of your birth numbers run around our republic, maybe even the world. All you have to do is look. The tax identification number is composed of individuals from what? From the birth number. We are constantly playing at some kind of protection of personal data. So I'm going to raise my hand for this novel because I think it's useful. I even think it should be a duty for everyone. We're insured, there should be an obligation for everyone. And I'm sure it's not wrong for a doctor to treat me to know where I'm taking my meds. No matter what happens to me, there's an accident, there's an ambulance coming, a colleague might be able to tell you about it, so he'll know - and maybe I won't be able to tell the ambulance because I might be unconscious - so he'll know what I'm taking. Even that's a way to minimize the risk of being affected somehow by the intervention of an ambulance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u41	Thank you. Mr Brázdil made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u42	Thank you. You set me up beautifully, colleague. Please, especially for viewers who watch this, viewers, listeners, simply and well patients. Please, don't just bring phones, laptops and stuff. Carry an I.D. card, too, 'cause in the pre-hospital emergency care, when you're unconscious, if we don't know your name, who you are, it won't work. I need to know at least the name, last name, so I can even get on the drug record and help you. Please don't just wear laptops and cell phones, okay, it's important, but also the ID card, at least the ID card. This will be very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u43	Thank you. Before we proceed with any further factual comments, I'll introduce you to my apologies. Mr Dolínek apologizes for today's meeting between 11 and 16 o'clock due to his participation in the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Czech University of Agriculture. Vice-President of the House of Pikal apologizes from 11.40 to 12.45 for work reasons. Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes from 11:30 to 14:00 for reasons of work and for family and work reasons Mr Václav Klaus apologizes from 12:40 to 18:30 from today's meeting. We continue with factual remarks. Mr Kasal is next, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u44	Thank you for the floor. I will still respond to President Bartoš through you. I'm gonna say one more thing that might not have fallen again. The groups you listed, I understand. Of course, there must be protection. On the other hand, there's a combination of drugs that, for example, hate each other. [[Nesroz.]] So that's one thing. But most importantly, we're not in a situation where we're in some sort of circle around our doctor. Take that we are here from all over the Czech Republic - and we have our doctor here? And it's the footage that's gonna happen, so even if you go to a doctor here somewhere, he's gonna find your meds in that footage in case you get sick and you can't communicate. That's what the system's important about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u45	Thank you. Mrs Gajdůšková. Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, I would like to thank the Minister for explaining and stressing who will be able to enter the drug record. That's what I think is crucial. And especially for the patient. Mr. Kasal beat me a little to the point that we're moving, that we're not just on the spot. We've been dealing with tourism here this morning. That's where it's important. And when we add that our patients are taking the drugs 15, 20, and there are no exceptions, and it's especially in those older age groups, it's very important that the doctor who treats the patient at that point, who comes to him, knows what the patient is taking, and from that he also deduces what he's being treated for. But the doctor has access. I, for the patients and for the moment and for the Association of Patients, say that we support this proposal, which we are discussing, for the benefit of the patients.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u47	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, after him Vice-President Pikal. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would simply like to respond briefly to my colleague Votava about the tax identification number. This is, of course, a huge mistake that the birth number is part of the VAT number. That's a mistake we have to make right. Unfortunately, the government keeps putting it off. I agree with you that this is a complete mistake and that it is unbelievable. But I don't think it's possible to use it as an argument that if the state here massively violates the privacy of citizens, so that it should do it somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u49	Thank you. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, with a factual remark, so far the last one registered for a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u50	Thank you. I'll fix my apology first. I'm here. The meeting was shorter than I expected. My colleague Ferjenčík said most, but I would like to point out that there are some personal data in this I.D. or in our native number, but they are incomparably less sensitive than our drug data. Maybe that's why we're talking about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u51	Thank you. We will now continue to speak to those who are written in writing for the general debate. In addition to those who are registered in writing, Mr Nacher is still in office. It will be his turn after those who have applied in writing and who have priority. Mr Pawlas is next, followed by Mr Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u52	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would like to ask you to support my amendment, which is under point J, which I have tabled as a counter-proposal, which my colleague Pávek has put forward. What led me to do this? I think that the distribution of medicines in the Czech Republic is not in a state that shows the quality of distribution that patients deserve. What makes me say that? I think that my amendment is necessary because it will ensure the supply of all patients in the Czech Republic in pharmacies at their place of residence. Minimizes the risks associated with the failure of deliveries secured by a single supplier. I think it is fully supported by the Czech Pharmacy Chamber, state and professional associations and associations. Furthermore, I think it is verified because it is written on the basis of experience with similar systems in Germany, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and other countries of the European Union, both in Member States with a strong economy and high prices of medicines, as well as source states for reporting. Furthermore, I think that it is euro conformal because it fully respects the opinions of the European Commission and is based on the Commission's recommended concept of voluntary public service obligations. Furthermore, I think that it is proportional because it does not limit the free market beyond the necessary level and requires only those distributors who volunteer to supply pharmacies. What is important is procompetitive because it does not exclude existing or new market participants from the system of distribution of medicines. And what I think is very important is that it creates a competitive environment from which both pharmacies and patients can benefit. It repeals the monopoly of supply and the vertical cartel, which is here between the manufacturer, the distributor and the pharmacy, and will allow the public procurement law to be implemented, because let us be aware that one-quarter of the supply of medicines to hospitals is not competitive as a result of the fact that there is only one supplier of the manufacturer. I think it is a compromise proposal because it removes the legally criticised concept of market share. [[12.40 hours]] I am also surprised by the opinion of the Ministry of Health, because I think the current system is not good. The Minister says that they will work on the system, but I think that there is nothing to prevent my amendment from being accepted for the sake of equalising this unequal relationship on the market. I am also quite surprised by the change in the position of the Minister, who supported the proposal of my colleague Pávek and changed that view in the morning. So I can see from this point of view that it is not okay and that something should be done about it in the future. I think that my amendment is the first step towards remedying this situation on our drug distribution system. So I'm asking for your support. On the other hand, I'm letting the Minister know that I think it's right that they should be working on it, but I think it's quite late and that it should start right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u53	With a point of fact, Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think that we are really discussing a rather fundamental standard, a standard that has a fundamental impact on the life and health of all of us. And on this occasion, I would like to ask, following what has been said here before the last contribution, what personal data can be entered into. I would like to ask the Minister, after this debate - which is why I am responding to the facts - what is the situation with the paramedic authorisation. Because unfortunately the practice on the street is that if someone collapses, there is a quick rescue service where there is no need for a doctor present, but there is a paramedic present with all the courses, so he doesn't even have the authority to request, if the patient is able to communicate, a citizen's ID. He must even invite representatives of the Police of the Czech Republic to do so. I know it's probably happening on the street, thank God -- here I'd like to stand up for the paramedics -- that it's happening differently, that they're probably not dealing with this bureaucracy, but what about the access to the database? If those paramedics can get into that database that doctors can get into, they can, too, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u55	Thank you. Mr Válek now, Mr Svoboda will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u56	Thank you, Mr President. The drug record and the electronic recipe were created hand in hand. When I looked into how ten, twelve years ago the first debates in Parliament and in expert committees were actually about it, the justification for the creation of an electronic recipe was the drug record. In order to be a drug record, an electronic recipe had to be created, not the other way around. That means, I don't think I'm quite happy to discuss whether or not the drug record is supposed to be, when the electronic recipe was actually created so that it could be a drug record. But I totally understand that the drug record is some kind of system where the drugs are archived. It fell here repeatedly, not all of them. And the side of the allergies that President Bartoš mentioned through Mr President, they will, of course, not be there. There will also be no allergic reactions to iodine contrast agents. Well, I'm not gonna know from the drug record that the patient had an allergic reaction to the iodine contrast agent and was in a coma and had to resuscitate it, just because the iodine contrast agent wasn't there in the drug record that he was getting it, it wouldn't be. It won't even say what type of iodine contrast agent it is. And you, who are health professionals, well know that allergic reactions to iodine contrast agents, but also to other contrast agents, such as magnetic resonance imaging, are extremely common. The same problem is the administration of radiopharmaceuticals and this information is of course important for carrying out examinations. And unfortunately, for some reason, the patient doesn't remember what iodine contrast agent he got, but he doesn't remember what type of contrast agent it was. And I'm not gonna get that information from the drug record. Sometimes in the future, yes, but not now. I'd consider her serious. But what the paramedics are going to find out from her, which I'm not, but they're some of our colleagues here, and it concerns all of us here, is that, and it has been said repeatedly here, I'm just going to repeat that if they deliver the sick - we accept the law for the sake of the citizens, the vast majority of citizens aren't health professionals, so if they bring this person unconscious, they can't communicate, so I'm going to find out from the drug record what interactions he has, like what he's taking, and so I can easily determine why his condition is what it is. Whether it is not a complication of chronic disease and so on. That's why I'd be very inclined to have access to the drug record with the first person to come in contact with the patient. I follow the question that my previous speaker had here through the President. But what is a much larger group of patients are those who come to the doctor and are not unconscious, communicate, and normally talk to the doctor. And here's my third problem or confusion. So what's going to be the dominant? Information in the drug record, or information from the patient? I don't expect these questions to be answered now, either. First of all, I don't think there's room for that in the two minutes that the Minister has to answer. I'm gonna put them all in the form of interviews that I'm gonna put in writing tomorrow, and I'm gonna want a written answer from the Minister. But so far, I'm repeatedly assured by the Ministry of Health's lawyers - that didn't come out here, if I'm wrong, if I'm misinformed, I'd be very happy to find out - but so far I'm informed that the patient's information is central and binding. That means when a patient says no to me, the drug record says no to this medicine, but I don't take it, so what the patient says is important. And on the contrary, when a patient says, well, I don't have this medicine on my medical record, but I'm taking it, it's important what the patient says. This means that even for this reason, the information in the drug record is a tool for acute conditions, but they are no idol, they are no dogma. Because in my field of radiologist, in the field of nuclear medicine, I'm not gonna learn anything from the drug record - well, I'm not gonna know because I just don't have it there, the drugs I need to know about. [[Objection from the petitioner.]] From the point of view of the doctor to whom a patient who is not unconscious comes, it is important to me what the patient says. I can compare it to the drug record. And if I don't look at the drug record, I'm gonna blow off the drug record, and I'm only gonna proceed based on what the patient told me, so I'm repeatedly assured by the Ministry of Health legislation that I'm not and I'm not gonna be exposed to any punishment, because what the patient is telling me is important is what the patient is telling me, and the drug record is extra. It's some kind of tool. And I really welcome this device very much in case of unconscious patients and in case of patients who cannot communicate with a doctor. In all other cases, what I learn from the patient is essential because it is binding. And that's how I get my information repeatedly, so I've said it ten times, because no one here has ever said it so clearly. So let's divide it into two groups - unconsciousness and the rest. The rest of what the patient tells me, and I don't have to look at the drug record at all. If I wanted to talk about techniques, of course there are recipes that are still being completed in writing. Ad usum meum, my grateful subject, which has not been resolved until today, but it does not bother me and I have accepted it internally. And of course, these medicines, which are written, are very difficult to get into the drug record. If there's a pharmacist, yes. But that's the only way they're gonna get there. But I really wouldn't do that. I wouldn't be there if all the meds got in, if all the meds didn't get in. I would really focus on two fundamental things for myself. The patient - because the drug record is always about the patient. It concerns each and every one of us because each and every one of us is a patient. Some already know about it, some don't know about it yet. But each of us is a patient. So either the patient is unconscious - and then there was heard from members of the coalition as well as from the opposition, doctors and non-medical professionals, every information I get from the electronic system is useful in such a patient. I can get that information from the hospital's information system, but the way to get that information is extremely complicated, complex, it's not the time. If I have a simple way of clicking, clicking, I'll find out what patient is taking the medication, it'll be an advantage so I can intervene at that point. In all other cases, when I'm talking to a patient, I don't have to look at a drug record, it's not a drug record, because information from a patient is important. And so the information from the ministry, from the legislative department, is repeatedly heard. The fourth problem I have, or confusion, is about the log-ins, the log-ins. It's basically bothering me, any system - it doesn't matter if it's a pharmaceutical record, if it's a banking service, if it's anything - where whoever sets it up invents some complicated trick so I can't simply log out of it or simply log into it. Basically, it always makes me mistrustful, and it bothers me. And that's what I blame this system for. [[12.50 hours]] In my opinion, it is nonsense for citizens to apply gradually, because it will be a long-term journey, an unfortunate journey and a waste of time. But there is a need for a simple way of unsubscribing for those who want to check out, and at the same time there was a campaign that all health professionals must be responsible for. Don't do this, it's in your interest to stay logged in. But okay, there's a group of patients, a group of people who just don't want to be anywhere. So why don't we make it easy for them, if they want to check out, they'll check out. I think it was easy to simplify. The last point, and there I am completely confused and unfortunately was not discussed enough, it is therapeutic cannabis. Healing cannabis, though it's something we keep bringing up, so it's just one of the many drugs, yes, in this case it's cannabis and it's therapeutic, but it's one of the many drugs, it's a cure, it's not a support device, it's not even a nutritious remedy, but it's a cure. And I'm completely unclear, and I'm not able to figure out why this only drug is part of this law, why its approval doesn't work in the same way as any other medication that is palliative that treats symptoms, because this is a drug that is used in paliative medicine, in medicine symptomatic. I don't understand. I understand that for a number of drugs, the payer is simply a payer under the approval of the SÚKL, because the payer is an insurance company, he will always decide that he will not simply pay for the drug in its entirety. Part of the drugs for reasons that only the insurance company knows and God apparently are paid in part, some are paid in full, some are paid in excess, some are lower, some are not paid in any way, just so it is. Why in the case of medical cannabis is paid 30 grams and no more is paid, I have no idea. And what am I to know if it's right or right? But I don't understand why the debate on how to pay and how to pay didn't go exactly the same way as any other drug. I totally agree with what was said here. It's just a group of patients -- and we know it, and I think any of you doctors here are gonna give me the truth-- maybe it's not a big one, but it's that needs more medical cannabis. So surely there is still a part of the medical public that doesn't consider therapeutic cannabis to be the optimal treatment method, and so does the lay public, part of the lay public, because it still sounds like cannabis, joint, marijuana, and I don't know what everything is. But gros to the public, and it has repeatedly been said here, data, hard data in PubMed and in scientific publications clearly support this, it is simply a respected treatment, palliative, symptomatic, which helps those patients greatly improve the quality of their lives. So I'm totally missing out on why this particular drug is not the same way as all the other drugs, and why it's part of the law. It would have been easier for me, the debates would have been resolved, the complications would have been resolved, and there would have been peace. Anyway, part of the patients will have to give more than 30 grams just because they need it. And the larger amount will pay. Well, it's legitimate to say well from health insurance, solidarity health insurance pays 30 grams. If your doctor prescribes a larger amount, you have to pay for it. And there's going to be the same debate between the patient association, as is the case with other medicines, the manufacturer, and I don't know, the insurance company, which, on the one hand, we wouldn't want to pay as much, and on the other hand, it's going to say no, we want to pay fully. Just the standard conciliation procedure or how it goes. Why didn't it work in this case, I don't know. And that's the last, fifth doubt about this law. In conclusion, in order to end up optimistic and positive, I will vote in favour of this law, I will gnash my teeth, but I will. Because I think that if I manage to save one patient a year by using a drug record, and my colleague here said it quickly, a number of my colleagues said it here, if through this law can save even one patient a year simply because I find out what medicine he's taking, he's unconscious and I can offer him adequate and proper treatment, I can just as a doctor - and at this point unfortunately, whether the voters are angry or not, I feel more like a doctor than a MP - I can't afford to vote against it. I just have to support the law because I took the Hippocratic Hippokratův, that's all I have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-005-155.u57	I thank Mr Válek. I will now recapitulate what situation we are in. With a point of fact, Minister Vojtěch is registered. With factual remarks, Mr Mašek, Mrs Adámková, is registered. In the debate, Mr Svoboda and Mr Nacher are registered in writing. At this point, I am interrupting this point in accordance with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. It's 12:55 a.m. and we're going to focus on the fixed item number
