ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u1	3. Draft law amending certain laws in the field of taxation and certain other laws /public press 206/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We have received the resolution as House Press 206/6. We have information on the amendments in our mail. I welcome Senator Vladislav Vilímec here. I ask that the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the Senate proposals that have returned the tax package for 2019 back to the Chamber of Deputies. The tax package from the Ministry of Finance workshop contains fundamental changes to tax laws that are due this year. These are, for example, measures against aggressive tax planning, particularly by multinational groups, but also measures that reduce the tax burden on entrepreneurs, natural persons, businessmen, such as flat-rate spending or simplification of tax deductions to support research and development. Last but not least, the tax package responds to the threat of an increase in heat prices by reducing VAT from 15 per cent to 10 and also introduces the taxation of so-called heated tobacco. The Chamber of Deputies approved the tax package on 21 December 2018. As I recall, it was a majority vote, about 150 votes from Members. However, the senators returned the law to the Members with amendments with which the Ministry of Finance disagrees and whose adoption would have adverse consequences. Let me sum them up. One of the Senate's amendments is to include in the tax package a reduction in the VAT rate in selected sectors, such as catering, some craft and professional services, water and sewerage. However, this reduction in VAT for the same activities is contained in the amendment to the Sales Recording Act and is an integral part of it, although the legislation is divided into two separate laws. This reduction is intended to compensate entrepreneurs from the remaining stages of the start-up of the EET for the costs of its introduction and also positively motivate them to carry out their tax duties properly. The adoption of one change without another would be inconclusive from the point of view of tax policy, making no sense to move it into another government proposal. Therefore, I cannot agree with the Senate's amendment. The amendment to the Sales Recording Act, which includes a reduction in VAT to selected services, has been in the Chamber of Deputies since last June. So if it really mattered that these changes would be effective as soon as possible and that they would fall on taxpayers and payers as soon as possible, there would certainly be a number of different chances of being effective and paying today. [[17.50 hours]] Similarly, the Senát's proposed reduction in the rate of excise duty on beer would not have fulfilled the original intention of the Ministry of Finance to support hospitality by reducing the VAT rate to 10 per cent, with which the amendment to the Act on Recording of Sales also counts. A large part of the price of draft beer consists of a separate restaurant service serving drinks, thus reducing VAT will also reduce the burden of this work. On the contrary, a reduction in excise duty would be particularly evident in the case of bottled beer, which is more risky from the point of view of the excessive consumption of this alcoholic beverage, since its price is several times lower than the brewed beer. The reduction in excise duty would thus transfer the centre of gravity of the intended aid from hospitality to beer producers, especially large breweries, while the relatively most important benefit would be the measure for cheaper bottled beer. Except for the negative budgetary impact of about one billion, the Senate proposal would also lead to an unjustified advantage for certain size groups of breweries. The highest reduction does not affect the smallest family breweries, but the medium-sized breweries of the industrial type. While excise duties are now graduated on the basis of the amount of beer produced per year, the Senate proposal would abolish and disrupt this proportionality. The proposal to shift the efficiency of the reduction of the VAT rate to heat and cold by six months to July 2019 is also unfounded. The reduction in VAT to heat and cold is due to an increase in the price of emission allowances, which is expected to have a major impact on prices for citizens only in 2020. In addition, when delivering heat and cold, the rate effective at the date of deduction from the measuring equipment usually occurs in the year following the year in which the supply of heat and cold occurs. In many cases, the customer will receive an advantage under the Act effective from 1 January 2020, even if they effectively address consumption in 2019. In the case of a standard reading process, this change in efficiency would in principle not be a difference from the version approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The last substantive amendment contained in the Senate amendment is an extension of the time limit for electronic submission of income tax returns by one month. We discussed this quite in detail last week when we discussed the proposal of the pirate party. Well, I've been making my point here, so let me get this straight. Electronisation of tax administration is one of our key priorities, but I believe that this proposal would not lead to an extension of electronic submissions. Lawyers are already making their tax returns electronically in most cases. And for natural persons who have overpayments in more than half of the cases, that would mean delaying the payment of the overpayment, which is certainly undesirable for them. Over 60 percent of these taxpayers, as I mentioned last week, are asking for a refund of the overpayment. The deadline for filing a tax return shall also be reflected in the information systems and deadlines for the health and social insurance statements. This comprehensive adjustment with effects on a wide range of subjects should therefore be passed through standard reminder management. Otherwise, this change could result in unexpected consequences that could negatively affect the lives of a large number of taxpayers from tradesmen and employees. However, I remind you - the last sentence - that we are working and within the framework of the online financial office package, I will send an amendment to the legislative process by the middle of this year, which will include, among other things, this change, but we will discuss it properly in the commentary procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u3	I thank the Minister and I ask Senator Vladislav Vilímec to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u4	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, honourable Members, Madam Minister, allow me to justify the amendments adopted by the Senate to the 206 Chamber of Press, the Senate press 32, the so-called tax package, the bill amending certain tax laws and certain other laws. I must say that the Senate has examined very closely the bill passed by the Senate by the Chamber of Deputies. He has a positive view of the fact that there are some changes compared to the current situation, which are mainly in favour of small businessmen. This is, for example, the increase in the limit for the application of tax flat rates, to the level before the effectiveness of Act No. 170/2017 Coll., which reduced the limit in half compared to the previous text. It also feels positive about other things, I do not want to talk about them much longer, including moving heat and cold distribution from the first reduced rate of value added tax to the second reduced rate of 10 per cent. However, the Senate proposed some changes, respectively. adjustments which, according to the Senate, are missing in this tax package. These are changes that the government itself is preparing and preparing and only have not yet been approved or discussed, and we do not see why these changes could not already be approved within the current tax package. It should be noted that taxpayers and, in particular, businessmen are not waiting for a declaration on the necessity of their support. They are waiting for concrete measures and concrete actions. I would like to remind you that most of the proposed amendments were adopted at the Senate plenary by a significant majority of votes, when only the absolute minimum of votes were against. koneckonců all, the final vote on the return of the law passed by the Chamber of Deputies with amendments went through 59 votes when only one vote was against it. And I want to point out that the 59 votes were not just from the perspective of the government. opposition Members. For example, when I look at the Social Democracy Club, with the exception of two abstentions, all the Social Democracy senators voted to return the bill. I will go in chronological order after the changes proposed by the Senate, as the Minister has also actually done. I will start with the amendment to the VAT Act, and I will actually allow myself to add a brief explanation at the same time and respond to the Minister's objections. The objections were the same type in the Senate as they were now, even if I could track them, they were basically the same way. When I read the article of the Ministry of Finance, yesterday, which concerns the tax package, the wordings were exactly identical, which are in the article. But I have to say, I consider many of these claims to be a lot of purpose. If I take the transfer of the VAT rate to the so-called the second reduced rates on heat and cold distribution, i.e. the Senate proposal with earlier effect to 1. 7. 2019, here we have to mention, and in this we will probably not differ that in the area of heating, or generally in the last year, so called jumping increased. emission allowances. In principle, the price from the average price level of CZK 144 in 2017 increased to CZK 400 in 2018. This year, the price of allowances will be even higher. For this year, the heat plants have already partially reflected an increase in the cost of allowances in line with the regulation for heat prices. This increase is not only due to this increase in the price of these allowances, but also to a further reduction in the share of allowances allocated to heat production free of charge under European legislation. The state budget received CZK 15 billion from the sale of allowances last year, I think this is the right number, while the planned revenues in the proposal, or in the approved budget for last year were counting on CZK 6 billion, which means a 9 billion increase. In the approved budget for this year - I also looked, it is in the chapter of the environment - revenue to the state budget of CZK 7.5 billion is planned, but it can be assumed that the volume of auction of 30 million allowances will re-establish revenue in the range of CZK 15 to 20 billion. In such a situation, the former efficiency of the transfer of the VAT rate to the heat distribution is indeed appropriate. The Minister in the Senate - she did not do so here - speculated that earlier efficiency could lead to agreements between suppliers and customers to shift advance payments and to shift the final applicable deduction at all. I would like to oppose this speculation. [[18.00 hours]] First - and I think, or I'm not quite sure they didn't exactly describe it in that article of the Ministry of Finance. Firstly, a lower rate of VAT would and will always be applied to the surcharge above the remuneration received, not from the advances, the remuneration which is subject to the tax rate currently in force. Secondly, I do not consider it realistic that there will be any massive displacement or abandonment of the remaining outstanding advances. And thirdly, such a situation can also arise with any effect of the law, whether it is effective from 1 January or 1 July. Of course, we can discuss it with regard to the public budget blackout. For the entire public budgets, the blackout will be approximately CZK 900 million. However, in the case of the state budget, it will be more than offset by the increase in revenue for allowances. The second substantive change is the transfer of VAT rates for sewerage and aqueous services and some other services, to the same extent as foreseen by the amendment to the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales. Here it is worth pointing out that tax changes should be part of an amendment to tax laws, not entirely other legislative proposals. The Minister spoke of this, I do not think today, but also in the past, that this transfer is an expression of the support of the tradesmen, who have actually been set up by a lot of bureaucratic obstacles in recent years, whether in the form of a control report or an EET. But let me ask myself a rhetorical question: what is the link between the reduction in the water and the sewer rate to the EET? None. The impact of the sewer and the water is 2.5 billion out of 3.5 billion crowns, which means the greatest impact. Indeed, if we do not want to just talk about supporting businessmen, but we want to implement these promises in real terms, then there is no reason for these tax changes to be delayed and shifted into completely different laws. We know that the impact of moving to the second reduced rate is about CZK 3.5 billion. Therefore, the Senate also proposes that this amendment should come into effect on the first day of the seventh month following the publication of this law. The budgetary impact in 2019 therefore relates to the real last quarter and will be somewhere in the state budget at CZK 550 million. The third substantive change is the reduction in excise duty on beer. Here the Senate took note of the fact that there was a leap increase in this excise tax in 2010 in connection with the Act on the Stabilisation of Public Finances. This amendment was proposed by the government of Jan Fischer and approved as so-called temporary change. From the performance, and I remember it, because I was a Member at that time, the withdrawal of then Finance Minister Eduard Janota made it clear that this was a change valid for 2010, which was supposed to help on the income side to prevent the risk of reaching a state budget deficit of more than 150, 200 billion, at a time of global economic crisis. The then government was also aware, it follows from the performance of Eduard Janota, for example. In particular, the increase in excise duty on beer will affect the income of the least wealthy citizens. Years went by, and the amount of excise duty remained at a time when the economy was on the rise or on the rise. Moreover, the amendment is tabled in such a way that it does not return to the original rates. The proposed rates of excise duty are higher than they were before the economic crisis. At that time, the government was counting on an increase in tax revenue of approximately CZK 1.2 billion. As is the case, the reality was not the same because, like most similar adjustments, this change in the law has undergone a change in consumer behaviour. The net blackout, if this proposal were adopted in the proposed modification, can be estimated up to a maximum of CZK 600 million for the whole year. To make it clear how much the price of beer or excise duty would go down, they're ten-halers. For a pint of Pilsner beer it is a reduction in excise duty of about 30 cents. The amount of the tax on beer shall be calculated as the product of the quantity of beer in hectolitres and the corresponding percentage of the concentration of beer expressed as a percentage of the extract of the original youth and the basic or reduced rate. For Plzeňský Prazdroj, at the basic rate of CZK 32, the rate that is now being paid is the excise duty of CZK 1.76 for a pint of beer. According to the proposed change, it would be 1.45 crowns. I guess that's the kind of session we're in. Yes, the amendment contains a greater reduction in the excise duty rate for smaller breweries, but there is really no significant tax differentiation that the Minister has mentioned. The Minister argued in the Senate and here that this promotes greater availability of bottled beer and increases health risks. I cannot completely agree with this argument because it is indeed penny items. The last substantive change, and I will make it short, is the promotion of an electronic tax return on income tax. This proposal has already been made during the discussion of this bill in the Chamber of Deputies. It was actually rejected in about last week, as I found out, as a proposal submitted by the pirate party. First of all, the change concerns natural persons, because legal persons now usually submit tax returns electronically. This proposal favours electronic submission by extending the general deadline for submission from 31 March to the end of April. Madam Secretary argues that this will delay the return on the overpayment for natural persons. But it must also be added that there will also be an extension of the deadline for payment of the tax. That also needs to be added. So we have to really look at this from both sides. I just want to admit that when compared with other European Union countries, the deadline for submitting a tax return is very short in our country. This amendment is also proposed only after the submission of the tax return in 2021, the Minister did not mention that for the tax period of 2020. There are therefore no reservations about lack of legisvakance, time for technical adaptation Financial administration of this change, there is a lot of that time. The debate on the Senate has shown that this change is not a problem for the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and again we do not see why to wait for probably a new tax code, which is not even yet in the legislative process. Other proposed changes, and this is only very briefly, concern the displacement of the general effectiveness of the bill by one month. The text referred to by the Chamber of Deputies shall be the first day of the calendar month following the date of its publication, which the Senate considers to be an excessively short legisvacanci. Other changes are only legislative technical amendments to some of the provisions of the draft law proposed by the legislative department of the Senate. Members of Parliament, the Senate has made changes in the text that are either being prepared in other legislative proposals, or that have been discussed for a long time and are in line with the government's publicly declared intentions. It's nothing beyond the government's intention. On the contrary, the senators have abandoned other changes, even though we were called upon to do so by the Chamber of Tax Advisors. It was about municipalities and a big problem of how or whether to tax real estate sales. Whether it is an economic activity or not an economic activity. And while I believe that the amendment proposed by the Senate committee would be consistent or coherent with the European Union, we have abandoned this amendment so that we do not unnecessarily give up any cause for rejecting this proposal. These are, therefore, changes which do not mean even major impacts on public budgets this year, because the effectiveness of some changes is shifting until the end of this year. These are changes that will help taxpayers and businessmen immediately after their adoption. That is why I believe that you will support these changes without the disapproval of the Ministry of Finance in your vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u5	That was Senator Vladislav Vilímec. I therefore ask now whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee of the Budget Committee, Mr Jiří Dolejš, wants to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate. You're not interested. I hereby open the debate. I have the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura with priority for the debate and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Well, if you'll excuse me, I'll just read one more apology, so I won't forget. The Prime Minister apologises from 6:00 pm to the end of the meeting and Minister Dan Ťok apologizes from 18:15 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, colleagues, I would begin by saying that the Senate has most opposition parties from the Chamber of Deputies. The Senate could proceed to discuss the tax package - although the name is rather bombastic on the fact that in the original government proposal was only taxation of heated tobacco, which is not a political dispute, it is supported by everyone, otherwise it is not much tax package. The Senate could approach two ways. Either he could enforce it, and we had the strength in the Senate, the flagship of our economic program: the abolition of supergross wages, the uniform rate of income tax on dependent activities of 15 per cent of gross wages, the cancellation of the third VAT rate, etc. If we were to pursue politics, we would have fiery speeches here, defend our party economic programs, and definitely go through the House version. Or the second option chosen by the Senate, and I'm glad to try to do something smaller, but something meaningful, especially for small businessmen and businessmen. I will stick to my speech, as will the Minister and the Senator, Chairman of the Senate Economic Committee, the individual ones, I would say that there are four basic topics - let us ignore the legislative technical amendments proposed by Senate legislation as a whole and not by individual senators. I might start with a beer because it was my amendment to the Chamber of Deputies. He missed two votes. That's too bad, 'cause if those two votes came, that would be both versions. Senator Vilímec has already spoken of this. In response to the economic crisis, the former bureaucratic government came to the Chamber of Deputies, proposing, on the one hand, an increase in taxes and, on the other, a reduction in expenditure. The Chamber of Deputies - I did not sit in it at the time - took no more for its tax increases and reductions in expenditure. So the only measure at the time to respond to the global economic crisis - to be fair, not to the crisis in the Czech Republic - was to increase taxes. On that debate, and again, the senator quoted it, it was said that the tax was transitional. As the classic says, I give it a year or two. And it's been nine years. We wanted to meet mainly mini-breweries. Unfortunately, the excise duty on beer is partly harmonised. Madam Secretary knows that as well as we do. This means that in order to reduce the excise duty on beer to the smallest, we must reduce the basic rate paid by the largest, because harmonisation is that the relief for small ones can be a maximum of 50 per cent of what the largest ones pay. And that's what our proposal is based on, and I'm glad the Senate adopted it. The structure of beer production has changed. At this time, more than 400 mini-breweries operate in the Czech Republic. The average number of employees is ten to fifteen, as in which. So figure out how many people work in mini-breweries. And these are people and owners who will not go to other countries for investment incentives. These are not people who will leave for tax holidays in other countries. These are those who contribute to the diversity of supply to consumers. The estimated blackouts on the public budget side are about CZK 800 million. We can argue. Maybe about 200 million, the Treasury estimates more, but in fact, if the state budget ended up on the income side or spending side with a one-billion deviation, it's more like a miracle, because if you count it as a percentage, it would be 99 whole things that would fill the state budget. I think, even though the government made those promises, and I don't know if five or six governments came after her, we could keep them by supporting the small and small ones. I told the Minister that I was smiling to notice the ANO movement's opinional highshow, which, after five years, finds it difficult for businessmen, as the Prime Minister said. Now we've noticed how difficult these businessmen are. But mini-breweries are run by really small and tiny businessmen. I told you, you can see the volume, the number of employees. And when we were discussing this for the first time in the last parliamentary term, the representative of the Association of Mini Breweries - unfortunately, I don't have it with me, but if you're interested, I'm still able to trace it and read it - gave me a list of possible controls that could come to the mini-brewery in one year. If memory doesn't deceive me, that number was bigger than 20. So that's how we treat small and small. And here the proposal actually brings their tax back to a level slightly higher than it was until 2010. He doesn't even copy it. I understand there's some inflation from 2010. In my opinion, the proposal is correct, there is no threat to the stability of the state budget and it deserves support. Electronic tax returns. I am one of those natural persons who do not do business, who, no later than nineteen or twenty days from now, have to file a return on personal income tax, and I would certainly welcome it myself, and not just me. I'm not gonna set up a data box for this so I can have that option. The argument "we are against it, because legal persons already have it" seems odd to me, when the authors of this proposal say that it is supposed to relate primarily to natural persons. You know very well that those who do business can add tax knowledge to 30. Six, if that's what they're gonna do. This is where we see the problem. And one of those arguments is said to be that it is not enough to become a state and the Financial Administration to prepare for it. But, as Mr Vilímec rightly said, if we were to approve today, the state has almost two years to make it to, let's say, 1. 1. 2021 available, although I don't know anyone who would give tax 2. 1. when theoretically can, or 3. 1, but I don't know anyone who's done it. Even employers need a receipt of income, they must come to him if he has a mortgage, a confirmation from a mortgage bank, if he has pension insurance, a pension, so he must bring confirmation etc. The proposal's really right, and it's a good thing the Senate put it there. Now I'm getting to the part where rationalizing the secretary that he's against is the most ridiculous. When we discussed the tax package, I and many others criticised that the VAT reduction was not in the tax package, but in the EET. Politically, it's clever. I understand you're trying to tie up the EET's approval by some kind of tax cut. But this can be paid for two months, as the senator said. When the EET pays, I don't want to guess. Well, I hope it won't be soon, it won't be in the fall, maybe in the winter. Then he's still there for six months. So I'm turning to colleagues from the left side of the political spectrum who are ready to vote against the VAT reduction on water and sewerage. I really don't understand. Ask your constituents if they'd welcome it or not. You are ready to vote against the reduction of VAT on heat and cold from 1 July. I don't know, Madam Secretary, I actually read those invoices, and I haven't noticed yet that from January 1st there wouldn't be another energy price until December 31st. We know very well that these are mostly regulated prices, and they change very often as of 1 January. The argument that if VAT is lower from January, that it will apply to the period until the end of the year, I don't think it will last. A higher rate of VAT will be paid for the heat collected if you support the House version or 10 per cent VAT, a reduced rate if you support the Senate version. When the Ministry of Finance explained the unflattering results of the two-month period, it spoke of extraordinary effects on the revenue side of the state budget in 2018. We agree on that. The first and largest extraordinary income was actually a supplement for the programming period 2007 to 2013. Madam Secretary will fix me, I don't know the number in my head. It was around 30 billion, a supplement for this period 2007 to 2013, which was the income of the state budget in 2018. [[18.20 hours]] But the second, actually, extraordinary income that the government didn't deserve and that no government could earn, whether left-wing like this or right-wing, was an increase in revenue for emission allowances, and that was plus 8 billion. Mr. Senator here once again showed the prices in 2017, 2018 and the forecast for the price of emission allowances in 2019. So it's simple. If we want citizens to have a reduced rate of VAT on heat throughout the heating season, we vote for the Senate version. If we do not want to, we vote in favour of the House version. We'd better take the money away from them so we can contribute something to the selected groups. When you look at where the central heating is, I think it's appropriate to reduce VAT there, because those end-users are not able to influence the price of emission allowances in any way. No way! And when we translate emission allowances into the Czech language, which is such a very complicated one, it's actually a payment for environmental pollution. Otherwise, I can't call it, if I had to simply explain what an emission permit is and why the companies are paying for it. In fact, they buy that they can pollute the environment to the extent permitted by law. If we want to help businessmen, we will vote today to reduce VAT rates for selected groups. The senators did a clever thing. They took the government's proposal and they projected it into the tax package. On March 12th, the Minister against. I don't know when the third reading of the EET will be, I would guess sometime on October 12th, and the secretary will say: I recommend that you approve it, it's an excellent thing. Our government is proposing tax cuts. The question is for you who want to vote in favour of the House version, why should we wait? Either tax cuts are good, and we believe that it is good, and we have not added anything to the government proposal of our good ideas so that we are not blamed for playing political games here, only the senators have taken what is written in the EET Act. And we can approve today, and then it'll be effective if I have to guess, since May 1st, it might be possible. We'll see when it comes out in the Collection of Laws and how quickly the President will sign it. So, when I sum up the reasons that the Minister said, I'm quite surprised, because most of the time, the Minister in these debates, whether here or on the Committee on Budgets, is using expert arguments, it was purely political today. The senator has clearly shown and expertly described the problems, explaining why the Senate as a whole considers it a reasonable proposal. I'd remind you of the strong majority in the Senate. It is not quite usual for the tax law that the right-wing senators and the left-wing senators are actually voting for the same wording of the law that is returning to the Chamber of Deputies. And so I return to the beginning of my speech that it shows the Senate's responsibility to accept sensible things that do not have a purely right-wing solution, as we would like, whether Members or Senators behind the ODS, but also suit the vast majority of left-wing senators from the ČSSD. We consider this a reasonable compromise. So basically there are four things: The VAT reduction that the government wants, but elsewhere and other times, but otherwise it's exactly the same. There is no expert argument. The electronic tax return that the government should prepare, and the Financial Administration, in two years, and the government says again: we are not opposed, but we will do it better, but we will do it anyway. Then there's the debate about the seven months of VAT on heat and cold. And try to answer for yourself what invoice that comes next April will have VAT on heat. I think it's pretty simple. Either there will be a lower rate according to the Senate or a higher rate according to the House. Madam Secretary is wrong when he says it doesn't matter that the invoice will be for the same amount. I'd quite like to see such an invoice that there'll be ten VAT when the legislation says it's not ten. I think that's something those companies just can't charge and they won't because they have to follow the applicable law. VAT. And as part of that package, I want to remind you, in particular, of the water and the gutter, where we see years of paradoxes. Although it's a regulated price, the more we save, the more we pay. It's kind of like mobile data: we're wasting a little water, which is why we have so high prices of water and gutter. So we have to turn off the taps and turn off the wifis and it'll be better! I don't completely understand. I don't think so, but it is a coincidence that I am looking at Mr Nacher. [[Fun.]] I apologize to him so he doesn't think I'm quoting him. I'd quote him with all the good stuff. I don't think he shares that view. He's just sitting so convenient that I'm looking at him right now. So the Minister's expert arguments are missing. I'm surprised because it's not usually like that. They're political, they're legitimate, I'm not questioning it. In other words, dear entrepreneurs, do you want to cut your VAT? Only for the price of EET, dear businessmen! We know it's hard for you, but we're gonna make it harder for you with the EET, the painters and the hairdressers, and I don't know who everything is, but we're gonna cut your VAT. Not six months ago, as we could, but when we wanted to. That's the first argument. Second - digitization in practice. Nothing. Set up a tax deposit box, then you'll even have an obligation to file it electronically, then you don't have a choice anymore. Who would do that from a natural person? I don't know if any of you as a private person - I know some do, because I've been debating this with Members, they have data boxes. I find it incredibly uncomfortable and user-friendly, but nothing against the DOS world and my young years as a programmer. I feel like the development hasn't moved anywhere when I open my data boxes. That's about 2008 or 2009, maybe 2010, if I turn a blind eye, but we're certainly not in 2021 where we could have new, modern options. Madam Secretary tells me to try the EPO system. Report I tried it yesterday. I'm not gonna use it, but okay. It's also a little bit - it almost reminds me of the DOS to be for those who navigate. The políčko, the graphics are just like the DOS I loved. It's quite nice. So, in conclusion, quite seriously. If we want to at least do something for small businessmen and businessmen, let's support the Senate version. She's reasonable, she's compromise, she doesn't bring any revolution into tax law, and at least she has the right, the Senate version, to call herself a tax package. The House version doesn't exactly resemble a tax package. This reminds a much more tax package of the EET Act, whose fate is, and I hope that still, on the other hand, that some of you will be convinced by our repeated arguments, I look forward to the debate. I think we will bring a lot of stimulating amendments to think about this one more time. And I'd ask the Minister if she held on to the expertise, so I think she has to say a minimum neutral position. If she gives a negative opinion, as she said in her opening speech, and I fully respect that, then know that this is not an expert view of the finance manager and financial administration expert, but a purely political view of the policies of the YES movement. I understand that, and I respect that. The fact that she is not a member means nothing, but the important thing is who makes the policies of the YES movement, not whether she is a member of the movement or not. I think it's important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u7	Now, apologies. Minister Dan Ťok withdraws his apology, stays in the Chamber, and Mr Ivo Vondrák apologises between 19 and 22 hours for reasons of work. Mrs Olga Richterová also apologizes until the end of the day for health reasons. So we are now in the general debate, so I call on Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík to prepare Mrs Věra Kovářová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like, first of all, to respond to the Minister, who spoke about the alleged extension of the time for the refund of the tax return on our proposal, which is one of the main reasons why we support the Senate version. So, as we suggested, if the taxpayer makes a tax return by the end of March, he gets a refund of the overpayment at the same time as at present, so there's no delay. And as for the fact that if he gives it later, he gets the return later, that's logical, but the taxpayer decides whether it pays him off or not. We want to give people a choice whether it is better for them to file it by the end of March and if they have an overpayment, to get the money sooner or to file it by the end of April and the money can be received later. However, the decision is entirely up to them. [[18.30 hours]] So there's no extension. On the contrary, the basic advantage for the taxpayer is that people who fail to meet the deadline to collect all the documents for tax returns by the end of March are forced to hire tax advisors. The deadline for the end of March, which we have in the Czech Republic, is relatively short compared to European countries, which is why it is appropriate for us that people have the opportunity to collect the documents until April and to file a tax return during April. As a result, they will not have to pay for tax advisors' services, if they are able to file the tax return themselves, they simply fail to meet the time limit. This is the basic motivation on the part of the taxpayers why this instrument is appropriate. And on the side of the state, it is convenient simply because it is easier to process a confession that has already come electronically in some structured form than a confession that comes in the mail. So our proposal is advantageous for both taxpayers and the state apparatus. So here we really don't see any substantive argument against. After all, none fell when it was discussed in the House. The only argument is that the ANO movement will propose it itself and better. So the moment the Treasury worked it out or helped us process it, I really don't know how it's gonna get any better. Anyway, I'll be surprised. Furthermore, we encourage the changes in VAT from the press to the EET to be allocated and approved within the tax package, which is much more logical. The tax package is to be used to change taxes, the EET press is to be used to discuss the third, fourth EET wave. I don't think it's appropriate to assume that this is relevant. On the contrary, only if we approve this separately will it be possible to determine how much impact it has on the admission of sales by reducing taxes, and it can be assessed separately from the impact of the EET. Today, the motivation is not to admit some of the income very strongly given that the entrepreneur is afraid of falling into VAT and that he will have to make it significantly more expensive. This is a very significant concern for today's entrepreneurs. If the fear decreases significantly by reducing the VAT, then logically, they'll be more open to the sales. And if we do not separate the VAT reduction effect - the positive motivation of entrepreneurs to admit revenue, because those taxes are reasonably low - from the introduction of the third and fourth waves, we will never be able to make a meaningful assessment of which influence prevails. So that's another argument for approving both measures separately. My colleague Stanjura has already mentioned that there will be a number of arguments that the opposition will make against the third, fourth wave of the EET. It will certainly be at least the same as Mr Bláha lectured against the revision of the work on the holidays. We can expect a very turbulent House debate, while people would certainly welcome that tax reduction earlier. Last comment, especially here on colleagues from KSČM. Are you really able to defend with your constituents that you did not vote to reduce VAT to water and sewerage? I think you should realize that you're on your own, too, at the border of entry into this honored House. And I don't think it's a complete disgrace to the Communist Party to not support the reduction in VAT to aqueous and gluttony. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u9	So I will now ask Mrs Věra Kovářová to speak and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will prepare himself. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u10	Dear colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the Mayors' Club and the Independents, to comment on the tax package which, respectively, this law has been returned to us by the Senate. The original law was expected to be a little different. We expected that this law would include the abolition of a supergross wage or a slight reduction in personal income taxes. As we know, the abolition of the supergross wage from the bill has fallen and a slight reduction in the income of natural persons is also not taking place. We thought that if this was in the government's statement, it would also appear in the tax package. On the other hand, we are pleased that it fell out of the original proposal to modify the definition of a subsidy to a price which should have affected a number of entities whose subsidies from the State would have been taxed. And we expect the Ministry of Finance to prepare a methodology as promised by the Minister, to define the entities involved, and also to assess the fiscal implications of this measure. Since we are the only country that does not yet have a new definition of the price subsidy, which is included under remuneration, and thus burdened with VAT, we do not have in our legal order. However, two interesting proposals have been made in the House version, namely the increase of tax flat rates to CZK 2 million, and also an amendment which reduces VAT to heat and cold from 15 to 10 percent with effect from 1. 1. 2020. The Senate proposal and the senators went even further and propose that the effectiveness be changed, starting from 1. 7. 2019, and the reasons are clear. It is those high emission allowances prices, which have been reflected in the prices of heat plants and, above all, can affect consumers, that have led the senators to give efficiency to 1. 7. 2019. An interesting proposal, which cannot be agreed with, is precisely the filing of a tax return. If the payer submits electronically, the deadline for submission shall be postponed by one month by the end of April. We think that every motivation for a taxpayer to file tax returns electronically is correct, even because in the Czech Republic taxpayers submit electronic tax returns in 20 percent, while in Europe there are usually 50 to 60%. Furthermore, the senators have removed - this has already been mentioned here - the reduction of VAT rates according to House press 205. The argument that this is tax matters must also be accepted. As far as beer rates are concerned, I believe that one option is to reduce VAT rates. The reason was to help small pubs, i.e. as part of the mitigation of EET measures. It's an argument. Another argument is the reduction of excise duty as aid to small breweries. I personally believe that, in this case, the reduction in beer rates is indeed a political issue. I think that, as we explained here during our discussions with the Minister of Health, whether he had abstained or abstained from voting in the Government on the reduction of VAT or excise duty, he stated that he had abstained and had his reasons for doing so. Because we are a country where alcoholic beverages are widely used, and I think lowering any rate is not entirely correct. However, overall, it can be said that the House version brings a number of positive changes and, for this reason, the Mayors and Independents Club will support the Senate version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u11	I will now request a speech from Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Mr. Jan Skopeček, Mr. Jan Skopeček, is the last one so far. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to follow up on what the Minister said here in her report, virtually. the negative opinion and the explanation of the negative opinion. Interestingly, the Minister said the following in October last year: Obstruction with the adoption of an amendment to the Sales Recording Act prevents a significant reduction in VAT, which should be part of the amendment. However, the House can reduce VAT at any time and the government can propose it at any time. He really doesn't need an EET for that. VAT is not subject to Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on the record of sales, nothing common since VAT is handled by another law, and this is directly the VAT Act. So if the government, Madam Secretary and Government Party, is serious about reducing VAT, they will certainly not block the reduction today, which is why I am surprised at the negative position. Because today, no one can see the end of the negotiation of the sales record bill. We haven't even had a second reading yet. We do not know what the amendments will be, and we do not know what the final shape of the law will look like, and the VAT change, because the change, the proposal for the VAT amendment, is actually an adhesive to the amendment to the Sales Recording Act. Unless government parties support tax cuts, they just confirm my theory, my words, which I said here at first reading about EET, that this is just a marketing move. Not a real, real, conceptual and systemic change and a proposal to reduce taxes, but a real marketing move that the government wants to pursue in the long term against tradesmen restrictive policies, so it wants to fit in front of them in a more favorable light, and those proposals to reduce VAT serve in such a case only as such a screen to cover the expansion of a restrictive tool, such as online monitoring of small businesses, so that the government can say that it wants to accept the EET in order to reduce VAT. But that's nonsense. It's just a marketing connection of pears to apples. Personally, I would also imagine, as one of my previous speakers said, President Stanjura, that VAT would change systemically, would fall across the board, the two rates that we have today would change 15 and 10 percent, the two reduced rates that would be one reduced rate at 10 percent. But okay. We do not have the majority, our political party in the House, we are not in the government, so this proposal brought by the Senate, I take the Senate version as a reflection of the government's original proposal. And now it's about to show how government and government are talking about tax cuts, if they really mean it. The Minister mentioned a change in VAT to heat and cold at 10 percent. She said that the January 1st 2020 was elected because the effects of the amendment to the Emission Trading Directive were expected only in 2020. já was one of the authors of the original proposal, which was given by representatives of six parties. And the date of 1 January 2020 was not chosen because we expected a change in the prices of allowances to heat prices in 2020. We chose that term for precautionary reasons, for the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, and for the support of government parties. I am glad that the House overwhelmingly agreed with this reduction of VAT to heat from 15 to 10, which (?) it intended to compensate for the artificial increase in heat prices due to the increase in emission allowances prices, namely compensation for final consumers who could not do anything to compensate for this administrative increase caused by the amendment of the directive at the beginning of last year, so they cannot influence this. By the way, the emission allowances prices went up to five times that one year. The Senate has chosen an earlier date, which has its internal logic in order to make the whole heating season of 2019 and 2020, so already throughout the season has been compensated for artificial price growth caused by the amendment of the Directive on emission trading. That is why I needed to come forward to explain to you here that the deadline for January 1st 2020 was not chosen because we were expecting impacts in 2020, but because of precautionary measures, because of the Ministry of Finance's opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u13	Mr Jan Skopeček is the last to speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u14	Thank you for your word. Just for a little while. I will return to the Prime Minister's journey to the United States in the last few days, where we could record when we met President Trump, as the Prime Minister says, how much he likes President Trump's plan to make America great again. He also told him that he had a similar plan prepared for the Czech Republic. All those who have read Donald Trump's pre-election program and plan know that the main part of it and its purpose is to reduce taxes more strongly in the United States. I want to ask you, after Prime Minister Babiš praised this plan in the Oval Office and said he had a similar plan prepared for the Czech Republic, why the ANO movement in reality is unable to approve even a very partial and minor tax reduction when the Trumpův plan meant a really strong reduction in the tax burden in the United States. As has already been said here, the ODS could have taken advantage of the situation in the Senate and brought here a number of our proposals, which we have repeatedly put forward here and which would have led to a really significant, severe tax reduction. We could try again to cancel the supergross wage, we could try to cancel the road tax, real estate tax, or the acquisition of the property. That was pointless, because the ANO movement blocked last week. In all this it is easy to see that the YES movement, the Prime Minister and the Minister like to talk very much about low and simple taxes, but when it comes to breaking bread, when it comes to any vote that is supposed to reduce the very partial tax, which is not important for the state budget, then the YES movement will refrain, say it will do better sometime in the future, or vote against it so that it can speak and talk again in its party forums about how it wishes simple and low taxes. Here comes a package dedicated to VAT, excise duty on beer, simplified filing of tax returns, things that simply have their rationality and which those who think well with the Czech Republic can very simply support because they will not mean tax simplification. But as I saw the Prime Minister at President Trump, I feel - and now I'm going to use the words I don't use, which the Prime Minister uses. It's just when the ANO movement talks about simple and low taxes, they talk and talk. And I think the next vote will show that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u15	That was Mr. MP Skopeček. He was the last one to be logged in to the debate so far. I'll look around the O.R. to see if anyone else is interested. I do not see interest, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking for final words. Are you interested, Madam Secretary? Senator Vilímec will be interested, too? Yeah, yeah, Okay. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate that was rich. I'll try to sum it up. First I'm gonna take the facts and then I'm gonna comment on what resonated most here. I felt as if some Members from the right side of the spectrum were discussing a package which is at first reading and not that has the whole legislative process behind it and is, on the contrary, at the final stage of its approval. I'm not going to repeat what I said in my opening words. Just excise duty, reducing excise duty on breweries doesn't help the smallest. He'll help the middle and the big ones. It will, in essence, disrupt a kind of proportionality between the groups and reduce the price of already available and cheap bottled beer. [[18.50 hours]] As regards the submission of tax returns within an extended period. I don't want to lecture here what I've been lecturing all my life. The deadline for filing a tax return, I repeat: The tax is due within the time limit for filing a tax return. The tax is paid, either a fixed period is fixed, or it is possible to submit a statutory tax return within the so-called extended period when it is processed and submitted by a tax advisor, or it is mandatory or audited entity. And, of course, there are certain responsibilities that arise from the administration of electronics, but they no longer affect it. And I explained that in principle, we're not against it. We helped write it at the Treasury Department. That's what we do to anyone if they happen to pass the legislative proposal, so at least it's legislatively good. I said we'd put it in a package for an online financial office. But precisely because it has an impact on the maturity of the tax, so it has to be linked to the penalty system, with the deadline of the assessment, so that there is no preconceivement. And the efficacy period is the same. We're gonna be 21, you're gonna be 21. Then let us go through the ordinary legislative process. I just said I wasn't against it. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] But don't make any promises about it. Lawyers have a data box -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u17	Madam Secretary, I'm gonna interrupt you for a second. I'm asking for peace of mind so the secretary can be heard. I've got requests from the O.R. to calm down the O.R. a little bit. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. - So you don't get your hopes up. Yet we will put it in the tax package to the online financial office, or My taxes project. And now the most important thing - a reduction in VAT. I was polite in my opening words, I don't like too pejorative expressions, so I avoided them. And I don't know, Prime Minister Stanjur, whether my speech was professional or political, I'm not measuring it. I don't have a meter for it. I'm trying to make my speech logical, to be consistent, and to talk about what I believe. But now I'm gonna use that expression. And you didn't just say it, other MPs said it. Just your speech on VAT cuts is hypocrisy. It's just simple hypocrisy! And I don't care if it's political or not. That's just the way it is. Because the fact that the VAT reduction is linked to the EET has total logic. That's where they support... Just as in the first wave we reduced VAT to catering services from 21 to 15 percent and now we are reducing them again from 15 to 10, so we supported the first wave then. And we continue to do so. Come in. Those selected services are related to the third, fourth wave. And we have, of course, attached an aqueous, wavy. You guys left it here for eight months! You guys have been boycotting this for eight months, and now you're gonna talk about us stalling? Even by discussing the third, fourth wave of the EET, we are thus balancing the business environment and helping businessmen. This was logically bound because tax collection will improve, so it will be for this reduction. And that taxes didn't go down? Taxes have fallen by 100 billion in the past. I had that tablet here several times. And this reduction presents another 3.4. And long ago, our citizens could have been less expensive for an aqueous and awkward price if you hadn't left it here since June 2018. So I say hypocrisy. And I don't care how you qualify. Marketing move - sticker. What else is there that, in the final phase of the legislative process, and we are in the final phase of the legislative process, will the measures be removed from the draft EET Act and read into the version of the Act which the Chamber of Deputies approved in December 2018? What's that? Surely I do not think you can call this a transparent legislative process. So I'm not changing my mind, it stays negative. And I consider your views in this regard, I repeat, hypocritical. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u19	Now I'm going to read one apology. Until the end of the meeting of the House, Mrs Levová apologises for reasons of work. Furthermore, with the replacement card number 15, the President of the Chamber of Deputies votes Radek Vondráček. Although Mr. Senator had an interest in the final speech, the President of the ODS MP had priority rights. Now, then, only priority rights, please, because we are not in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u20	I don't have it on me, but I'll bring it to the secretary wrapped up tomorrow. I have to turn very hard against this hypocrisy. I understand you don't know the political agendas of other political parties. We have two VAT rates in the programme for the long term, with a reduction of 10 percent. So every proposal that transfers services here from 15 to 10 is in line with our political agenda, with the program we ran for the Chamber of Deputies. This has nothing to do with hypocrisy. Hypocrisy is to walk five years after the tradesmen's throats, to say, "Oh, those poor people have it hard. That's hypocrisy! The fact that we defend our political agenda and the interests of our constituents is completely legitimate and not hypocritical. Read the program, I'll bring it to you tomorrow, wrapped, printed, from 2017. And please apologize for this. We may have different opinions, I respect that, but defending the program with which I ran for the Chamber of Deputies is simply not hypocrisy! Maybe you want to restrict the senator's right to propose changes in tax laws. Imagine, tax changes are an adhesive! In tax laws! And that's based on how she studied the rights, how she understood the law. Where else are we supposed to change taxes than the laws in which taxes change? What nonsense is this? That was your political decision to put a tax change somewhere else. It's okay. I get it. It's politically quite clever. But denying the senator's right to propose changes to tax laws in tax laws, and saying that it's an adhesive at the end of the legislative process... Well, the Senate is always at the end of the legislative process. If you want to change the Constitution that the Senate is discussing it first, and then the House, it'll be at the beginning. Then we'll be at the end. You said yourself how long it's been here. It's already been heard here today by another Senate vomit. Senators have 30 days. In those 30 days, they processed it, improved your proposal that you had to rewrite it, too. Your proposal, which you have in the EET to reduce the VAT rate for selected professions and for selected activities, as proposed, is not possible. It is legislatively flawed, because in the meantime, imagine that tax laws have changed and the VAT Act has changed, and therefore the Annex, which concerns the second reduced rate, has changed. Senators had time to work all this out, fix the Ministry of Finance's mistakes. But to the Minister, it's hypocrisy, a label, and I don't know what it's all about. It's just not like that. If anyone changes the program based on what they read in the morning and what they do in the evening. Let us remember who was against Karen's time and who then approved it. Let's remember who promised there wouldn't be a Karen's period until she was an incompetent. He doesn't mind today. And this way, I could continue until 20 o'clock so that there's no vote today if I were to calculate all the views of Andrej Babiš and his faithful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u21	I will now request the final word of Senator Vladislav Vilímec. Before you get to the counter, to the microphone, I'll read two apologies. Member Přemysl Mališ from 19.15 pm apologizes for family reasons and doctor Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from 18.50 pm to the end of the day for health reasons. All right, Senator, you have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The honourable Member, Madam Minister, at the beginning of her opening exposé, the Minister of Finance stated that these amendments were causing undesirable effects. She didn't say what it was. Indeed, the debate has shown that there is no expert argument against the amendments tabled by the Senate. There is no expert argument. [[19.00 hours]] As far as the gunfight is concerned about hypocrisy. You know, it doesn't bother me so much that the secretary here, although I wouldn't expect her to, when the secretary here calls the Senate legislator's procedure hypocritically. It bothers me if he writes it in the Ministry of Finance's press release. That's what bothers me. And while I'm here, I called it an article, the Treasury Secretary corrected me for a press release. And that's what bothers me. And when I was here recalling Eduard Janota's former finance minister, this could never have happened at the Ministry of Finance in his time. That's all I wanted to say. As far as the amendments are concerned, I am convinced that the Senate has worked very responsibly. He didn't put anything in there that contradicts what the government is preparing. When I came here before, I don't know, two months ago to defend the cancellation of Karen's period, I knew that even if I was in favour of not having that period canceled or those compensations being higher, I knew it wasn't much of a chance. When I came in today and waited for those four hours or how many, there was some sober optimism in me. Because voting against something where there is no expert argument is very difficult to vote against things that will improve taxpayers' lives in the business situation. This is very difficult, although of course I understand some of the political games that exist here in the House. Now, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, it is up to you. You decide whether the situation will improve for small businessmen, businessmen, and other taxpayers, or will be waiting for years for one or more laws to be discussed, even if we know that they are laws that have barely passed the first reading. That is why I believe that my mild optimism is quite appropriate today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-003-003.u23	Good evening, and we will now proceed to the vote under Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I'll check you all out. Please register with your voting cards. I'm gonna sing. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation and certain other laws, according to the Chamber of Press 206/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the Chamber of Law 206/6.' I'm opening the vote, and I'm asking who's in favour, raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting order number 215: 173 Members of Parliament, in favour of 70, against 47. The motion was denied. I note that we have not accepted the proposal approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. I'm gonna need you to set up... Yes, it's already set. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves a bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation and certain other laws, as amended by the Senate, according to the House's Press 206/5. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 216: 173 Members and Members signed in for 158. The motion was accepted. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] I state that we have adopted the bill. We will now proceed to discuss another point which is:
