ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u1	5. The draft law amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright, Copyright-related Rights and Amendment of Certain Acts (Authorisation Act), as amended /Departmental Document 175/4/ - Returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 175/5. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in the mail. I welcome Senator Pavel Štohl among us. [[Senator Štohl is not present.]] Well, Senator Zdeněk Nytra, I'm sorry. I ask that the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled... Yes, I have a note here, Mr. Culture Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes, and I have a mandate here for Secretary Klára Dostálová to represent the Minister of Culture. So please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, an amendment to the Copyright Act, which is exclusively an implementing regulation responding to the approval of two new European Union regulations, a regulation and a directive implementing an international treaty to facilitate access to published works by blind people, persons with visual impairment or reading disabilities, is being presented today. The aim of this adaptation is to improve the availability of copyrighted works in the form of books, periodicals, newspapers, magazines, musical scores and similar documents to persons visually impaired, including blind people and persons with read disorders, such as: severe dyslexia. The deadline for transposition expired on 11 October last year. The amendments adopted by the Senate aim at completely different provisions of the copyright law than those of the amendment. The opinion of the Ministry of Culture on both is negative for the following reasons. The first amendment concerns the Institute. communication to the public and it is really about what use of the author's work is to be paid to the author. It is laid down that where the work is made available in publicly accessible premises, there will be no reward for authors if communication to the public is of no economic importance. Such an arrangement is contrary both to international law and thus to the World Intellectual Property Organisation's treaties and to the relevant Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. According to settled interpretation, the work is communicated to the public whenever it is communicated outside the family and friends of the communicator. Therefore, the criterion of economic importance is not and cannot be relevant for assessing whether or not public communication is concerned. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the criterion of economic importance, of course, applies under the current legislation to the conclusion of licensing contracts and has and must have an impact on the level of remuneration laid down in the tariffs. In connection with this amendment, it is often referred to as an example of a hairdresser's establishment, but payments in these establishments are also common in other Member States. The second amendment concerns copying notes. According to the provisions of § 30a para. 1 is supplemented by an adjustment according to which it would be possible, without the author's consent, to produce a print copy of such a record which is not known by the author. This proposal also runs counter to that directive, since this directive allows printing copies to be made for certain types of works, but this exception is excluded for sheet music records. The exclusion does not mean, however, that it is not possible to obtain the author's consent in a simplified way to obtain print copies. The provisions of § 97e para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (j) the valid text of the Copyright Act, according to which consent to the acquisition of print copies of non-profit-making notes can be obtained by a licence agreement with the relevant collective administrator. Madam Members, for these reasons, I would like to ask on behalf of the Ministry of Culture for the approval of the proposal adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u3	Thank you. I apologize for the noise in the House, but it's calming us down. Now I ask Senator Zdeněk Nytra to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, my task is to present and try to justify the amendment adopted by the Senate at the last meeting of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. As the Minister has essentially recapitulated, our regulation consists of two adjustments, namely the extension of the provisions of Section 23 of the Copyright Act, which provides for exemptions from the payment of copyright to collective administrators, when we propose extending this exemption to other publicly accessible establishments for which the disclosure of the copyright is of no economic importance to patients in the provision of health services in health establishments. And then the already mentioned specification of the provisions of Section 30a of the Copyright Act, where basically it would be permitted to copy a musical work or a musical dramatic work in public libraries in cases where the author of the work is not known. I will try to justify these proposals. First of all, about the simpler, i.e. the specification of § 30a of the copyright law. Let me ask you a rhetorical question. Who does this copyright law protect when the author is not known? I'll leave the answer to you. I will just add that the existing wording de facto prevents the free distribution of, for example, folk culture, where the unknown author occurs most often in the works. And now to the media-speaker, the extension of Section 23 of the Copyright Act. If musical production is not of economic importance for the activity of a publicly accessible establishment, then again a rhetorical question. Why should the owner, or the operator, pay for this production? Surely each of you will find a lot of examples where you personally go shopping or enjoy some services regardless of whether music plays there. And frankly for myself sometimes despite this musical production. 'Cause frankly, sometimes shopping in stores gets me in a lot of trouble. Madam Secretary clearly mentioned the hair salon. I can deliver, for example, a shoe repair shop. It's a public establishment, it's got a radio on, and it's got to be paid for. But mostly every radio operator or television operator has to make a contract with the collective administrator of copyright works and work on hundreds of thousands to millions of dollars. From our point of view, there is a de facto duplicate fee. Once the collective administrators of copyright works have received this fee and, in turn, the authors have received it. There is no way that this is an attack on authors and artists, as I have seen in the media. These deserve to be properly evaluated for using their works. But what's the logic of paying for one and the same twice? Last night, I got my hands on a little children's book at the age of 12 months. There were beautiful photos of animals and the authors of the photographs were named right at the start of the book. I suppose the publisher or publisher had to deal with the authors of these photographs. If a mall places this publication in its children's corner, it will, of course, improve this equipment or the quality of this children's corner. I don't suppose this mall will have to pay those photographers again, because they've already been dealt with by the publisher. That's just one example for all of us. A mentioned contradiction with Czech or European legislation. I'm sure there are plenty of judicatures that go against our proposal. On the other hand, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court for the benefit of the operator of the establishment, in this case a bicycle sales facility in particular. There is also the caselaw of the European Court of Justice, once again in favour of the operator, in this case the dentist. Then there's Article 5 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Finally, there is also Section 30 of the Copyright Act in the current form, which assumes that economic importance is taken into account. To the very end. 56 senators voted for the Senate amendment and no one opposed it. Therefore, honourable Members, I politely ask you to support it and approve the amendment as amended by the Senate amendments to the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u5	Thank you, too. I have here a factual comment by Mr Bláha and Mrs Válková. However, we are not yet in the debate, so I cannot accept your applications for factual comments yet. Does the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Petr Gazdík, want to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate? He's not present, so I guess he doesn't want to. In that case, I am opening the debate and Mrs Lenka Kozlová is the first to be included in the debate. Please, madam. And I would ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make a brief comment on the amendments and the form of the law, as it came back from the Senate. Pirates support amendments coming from the Senate. And it is because they introduce important elements of copyright harmonisation, which the pirát have long dealt with. One of them removes the obligation to pay fees for the use of the work by businessmen and operators of publicly accessible facilities, as the Senator mentioned before me. None of them profit economically from the use of this work. That means the authors aren't reduced to their rights. I would also like to say that there will therefore be no restriction on the rights of authors, since the operator does not make the work available with the aim of its financial assessment, but only as an accompanying effect. In practice, fees must be paid, for example, by the hairdresser, who has a radio on in her premises, and basically has it on for herself rather than for visitors. Therefore, we find it pointless to burden her with another financial charge, which she must pay, even though the person who visits the establishment is already paying fees elsewhere. Another Senate amendment addresses copying notes for own use in works the author of which is not known. The exception currently applies which prohibits the production of copies of musical works. As a result, for example, merely playing for joy is pointlessly limited because of the increase in the sheet music record. In practice, there may be absurd situations where it is possible, for example, to copy a musical record for playing the guitar at home. It is precisely the multiplication of notes for our own use that we would like to allow citizens, in the best case, to make them available across the board, regardless of whether they are known by the author. But we also see this Senate proposal as a step in the right direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u7	Thank you, too. And now we're going to deal with factual points. As the first Mr Bláha, Mrs Válková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that this is just how we make the laws. Without starting a debate and discussing how the copyright law actually is, we will make amendments and plunge into change. I also perceive the copyright law from the position of musician because I am 40 years old, actually 50 years of musician, even professional I was one time, but also from the point of view of the operator of the device. There's a lot of things that aren't true. If I use the radio for my needs, no one can enforce the copyright from me, because that's just the way it is. At the moment, if I sound the place where the customers go, it's a different matter, and I have to realize that. A lot of things can be filtered out, like wireless earphones, if I have it for myself, etc. But that's not what I want to talk about. I want to talk about the fact that the copyright law definitely needs to be changed. Many musicians are dissatisfied with it, many people who have copyright are dissatisfied with it. It is decisive that the OSA manages a billion that will not end with those who created the works. But we need to launch a discussion of experts, those people who are involved, who know something about it, and not do it here on the bench, like we want to do it. So I'm definitely not gonna back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u9	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mrs Válková, if she is present. If it is not, please ask Mr Stanjura with a factual remark and then Mr Pávek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask you to take a break at the meeting of our club after the end of the debate, at such a length as to meet us back at 6:00. It depends when it will end - I hope it will be about 5:30 at the latest - the debate. We need some time for a meeting, I'm sure we want to vote today. And after the end of the debate, so that we can consider all the arguments that will be raised in this debate. But speaking of which, I've got one more minute to go, so I'm really upset that the Minister of Culture isn't here. We've got a Brexit - the Secretary of State is missing. Culture doesn't have enough laws to have five laws here at every meeting. I expected that the negative opinion of the Ministry of Culture on what the Senate is proposing, I expected a well-founded, long, detailed speech by the Minister of Culture. I won't bother the Minister, it doesn't make any sense, she probably read the material prepared by the Minister of Culture, but there's no serious debate about which of the two versions is better. There's nothing we can do about it, but it's just contempt for the House. We all know we have Senate vomit, I say, culture is a resort that - I don't know if it has three laws a year. And one of them is just missing the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u11	Thank you. Therefore, a break for the end of the debate within 18 hours. Okay. Mr Pávek, please, Mr Bartoš will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, I will suffice with a brief remark. We are moving in public space, so we have seen the pressure of artists to approve the version presented by the government, and we know the situation with businessmen and operators of public establishments, who, of course, feel under pressure from collective work managers when they collect copyright fees from them. The thing that bothers me is that they're missing out on the artisans, they're the parasites, they're the ones who are collecting incredible money from all sides who are deceiving the artists. They're the artists who should stand up to the way they're basically abused and robbed by the collective work managers. That's the problem. Those aren't the businessmen and operators of the small establishments. These are the leeches that lobbied the law that lobbied today, which simply manipulated the artists to act against the Senate proposal. So I will definitely support the Senate proposal because it brings some element of harmony and balance into this milking system, thanks to which basically everyone suffers except those administrators who are shamelessly richer and richer at the expense of everyone, especially those artists and, of course, public space operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u13	Thank you, too. I would like to ask the Members to perhaps settle down or move their meetings outside the House plenary. And Mr Bartoš, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u14	I would like, through Mr President, to respond and extend what has been said here by my previous speaker. I probably don't mix words like that, parasiteism and all, but one thing's true. Some artists are in favour of even tightening the copyright law and collecting more charges from a number of other things and mobile phones. They're the most performing artists who actually get the money. While when you look at the server like Band Zone, where there are amateur bands, which are far more than prominent top artists, who have access to television, who lobby, who are the most heard, they do not benefit from this way. So we also support the Senate law, as has been said here, or the Senate version, by Mrs. Kozlová. And I would ask Mr Bláha through Mr President, I do not like to define myself, but we, for example, have been engaged in copyright and professionally for 15 years, and if there is an amendment coming to the House, even in the Senate, it has not been sucked out by Members or senators from any impressions heard from Mr Srstka or Mr Strejček. These are simply legal texts, which are overworked, as opposed to OSA and DILIA are real data and experience. Do not throw down the work of those who propose legislation in every speech you make. We're not really people sitting here making up laws, writing them on their desks. These amendments reflect the reality of the copyright law and among the pirát are a number of experts on copyright law. We are also creators, we publish lyrics, we publish music, we deal with it for some over 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Bláha, then Mrs Melková, is now on the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u16	I've been meeting the copyright law since my professional career, when I was a professional musician, it's 1988, so a little longer than my previous speaker. But I don't want to define myself as having a patent on reason. No way. I just want to say that if we want to make a difference and make a good change, we shouldn't rush it. And certainly if we had any change today that we learned about yesterday or the day before yesterday, we couldn't have had any debate over her in the long run. And I'm certainly not thrilled about how the copyright law is - for example, when I'm playing ball, the Ose fees cost more than my band. I'm certainly not thrilled about that. But I certainly don't support deciding from the table that it's going to be this way or this way. And believe me, these things are more complicated than just meeting somewhere at the club and talking about it. I participate regularly in all possible negotiations and often after half a year we are unclear. Yesterday, we had a clear debate about insolvency. We talked about them for over six months, ministers prepared them for three years, and yet we did not reach a common goal. So these things aren't as simple as the pirát see them because a bunch of people are using them. Why shouldn't artists be paid to use his work in an establishment? Yes, the fee should be in some way really not liquidation, it should just be... [[Help from the diaper: Symbolic.]] Symbolic, right, right word. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] So that's what I want to talk about. But it's obvious that the pirát have the brains for everything, they know everything best. So that's about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u17	Please, Mrs Melková. Mr Bartoš will be prepared, then Mr Blažek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u18	Good afternoon, everyone. I certainly have a need to express myself on this issue as a professional artist, because we have heard a lot of different opinions here. Personally, I think the biggest problem is to even understand what intellectual property is, because that's why we come across who has and who doesn't have the right to play music in their premises. What I would also like to say is that the artist, whether he sings, records, or composes a piece, doesn't have to be interested in him, if he's in public space, whether the goal is an economic result or not. He's just interested in the fact that his music is played in public space. That's all. Let us really return to understanding what is and who has the right to intellectual property. If we understand that, then maybe we'll get better writing and creating copyright laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u19	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Bartoš. Mr Blažek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u20	I would still like to have a brief response, perhaps, to Mr Bláha and to my previous speaker, through Mr President. If there are people here who vote on copyright and don't, they don't know the legal definition of intellectual property, or how public production is seized, then I might give Mr. Bláh the truth. It would be a table vote. But if you're talking about it, and I've heard it there that the pirát are questioning the rights of artists in some way, then I'm at all shocked - to get paid an adequate reward for their work - so I'm amazed that you're even defining yourself against us. And read, for example, ten years of our publications in copyright matters, because that is not true. And I really think that since we are already going in the field of the Chamber of Deputies with a proposal, this is not some debate that is going on, like, on professional grémies. We have represented dozens of establishments in legal disputes. We discussed that when someone has exposed radios as decorations in a pub, the blackmailers from the OSA, mainly from other organizations, from the Intergram, want to pay for every machine, even if it isn't involved. If the pirát are experts in anything, it is a matter of copyright, patent law at European Union level. And we have courts in the European Court of Justice. I just don't really pay by myself here. I'm judging by you. Please. We can have expert discussions about this. So I hope you'll be the right partner. But it's just not that it's not unfair, it's just an obvious lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u21	Thank you. Mr Blažek, please. Mr. Bláha will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u22	Thank you for the floor. I have to admit, I'm pretty embarrassed about this law. And I'll tell you why. And I don't like simple solutions like that, or simple stickers. Unfortunately, sometimes what is called the cultural front, or artists generally exaggerate their ingenuity into political events, thereby creating some aversions that can sometimes come back to them in some way. That's what I think I smell a little bit here at the House part. Maybe I'll just tell you what the cause of our nation is. This probably results from the national revival, when we didn't even have the nobility properly. And then they were writers and others who were so - called Awakeners, and then it worked for us for a long time. But what I wanted to say is that this time I personally can't see a cultural front, because when I saw the press conference, it wasn't the aggressive artists or how to say it, but when I see Petr Janda or Michal prokop... You know, these are the people I grew up with. That means I don't give a damn what he thinks about this law. And it would be hard for these personalities - and these are personalities, because a lot of their songs will be here when we may not be here in the world. It's gonna be a game all the time. So I have to think a lot about whether or not they're right and whether it's good to go against them on this matter. And I'm starting to think it's not. And I'm not gonna take that as being subject to some kind of cultural front.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Bláha, please. Mr. Pávek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u24	As I have said several times, I am not satisfied with the form of copyright. But remember yourself, when you bring some thought to the Chamber of Deputies, some suggestion, some law, how you all sway: that's mine, that's what we brought, that's what we did, or that's what we did, that's what we did. That's what it is. But we have our own money for it. The author at the moment when his work is being released and there's no charge, so he has absolutely nothing to do with it. It's just that he invented it. So we should look into that, too, and help. And I definitely believe that we should narrow the path from the taxpayer to the author. The money can't stay in the agencies most of the time. And that's what the charges are gonna be less. It's simple. We have digitization. You're the experts in this. Then suggest how we do it all. And I'm just gonna be so excited that when I play fun, I'm not gonna have to be ashamed that the organizer has to pay more for the songs I play than I do for the authorial OSA. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u25	Thank you, too. Please give a factual remark to Mr Pávek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u26	Thank you again for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is going exactly the way I warned it. That means it's either you or them. And we're kind of forgetting about the agencies that just finish it. And it's all over the place. This isn't about questioning intellectual property and claiming his reward. Every artist whose song, every singer or band whose song is played, the transmitter, that's the radio station, that's what the agency's gonna pay for. That means it's already paid for there. Why does the hairdresser pay again or the shoemaker? That's the problem. The fact that the agency keeps most of the money and cheats those intellectual property holders means the artists, that's completely different. That's not what we want to do here, and we don't want to get into a situation where we're going against each other. You know what? I have to go on the radio when I come somewhere and listen to the comments of some jokers besides the songs, who may not seem funny to me. I have to endure it. Those people must suffer our speeches too. I mean, we're all commented on it, too. We are also aired in public space. Well, what? Just like we're gonna pay for our talk? As part of the news? [[Laughter and entertainment in the hall.]] And now, please, I don't want to hear that you have intellectual property. Just like let's narrow it down a little bit and say good, the Senate proposal just puts it on the plane that we won't pay twice for these things because it's already paid. And if artists have a problem with being robbed by those agencies, let them just deal with them. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u27	Thank you. Let me point out that our speeches are public by law and are not subject to copyright as official works. [[Report to the O.R.]] And now, please, with a factual remark from Mrs. Oborná. Mrs Oborná has a point of fact here. No? Well, no. Please, Mr Michálek - with priority rights I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, this bill is not about whether or not we recognise intellectual property or copyright. We all admit that. This bill is about employee radios and televisions and the fact that the fees of OSA, Intergram, must be paid for staff radios and televisions. We have all received letters from Intergram lobbyists who have been lobbying here for 20 years, and therefore the law in the Czech Republic is just as rigid as one of the worst laws. This law is about hardware stores, dentists. This bill is about the lady at the reception sitting downstairs with the TV on and watching TV Barrandov, and the OSA must charge for this TV. We can ask the Chancellor how much the Chamber of Deputies is taking. We're talking about this marginal use, the greed of collective administrators who want to choose for such marginal use. We're not talking about someone making money off of it, about business centers and about using music for commercial cases. [[17.10 hours]] Let me get below the surface right now to talk specifically about the two changes that are being proposed. One. Madam Secretary here - I admit - from another ministry, but I understand that the government is in need of personnel, I think it has other tasks right now - she said that it is not possible to introduce an exception for copying sheet music records. I dare to quote from Directive 2001/2009 of the European Communities, Article 5 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. [[correct:29]] 3. It contains two letters, point (a) and point (b). Point (a) does not really allow copies to be copied and point (b) allows copies to be copied. I will read it to you: Member States may provide for derogations or restrictions on the right to reproduce in accordance with Article 2 in the following cases: (a) in the case of copies on paper or any similar medium, which are produced by the use of any photographic technique or by any other process having similar effects, except for musical instruments, provided that the right-holders receive a fair remuneration. And now point (b) - beware: for any reproduction on any medium created by a natural person for private use and for purposes which are not directly or indirectly commercial, provided that the right-holders receive a fair remuneration which, in respect of the work or object of protection concerned, takes account of the use or non-use of the technological means referred to in Article 6. This point (b) allows Member States to introduce an exception so that if your child goes to the library, he can copy the sheet music. All they have to do is keep it in our law, which we're discussing now is that it's for private use and that it's not for commercial use and that there's supposed to be a fair reward, which means that it's getting a percentage from each copy today, some dime, twenty-year-old gets DILIA, which is again a special organization that collects fees for copying musical works and other similar ones. Of course it's possible. It is not true what has been said by the Ministry of Culture, and unfortunately, it is because the Ministry of Culture is obviously crawling with lobbyists of these organizations. I know, I've been watching this for about eight years, and we've seen the proposals, the proposals prepared by OSA and DILIA, which, of course, were not in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic, who were only in favour of these collective administrators to recover. There were also people like - Mr Janda said something. I mean, Mr. Janda is the former head of the OSA, so, of course, he's gonna support every other proposal that the OSA brings in more money so she can get a little more cash on it. It's not true what the D.O.D. said we couldn't put it in place. Under European legislation, we can implement this and it is up to us. The Senate has brought it to us, they've processed it, it's been properly designed, it's not at the last minute that we're here to masturbate, and it's just us, as we decide. And now for the other part. It's about those employee radios, televisions and other similar media. I would like to start by saying that the Court of Justice of the European Union has already ruled in one such case, in the case of dentists, that if someone goes to the dentist to fix his teeth, he does not go there to enrich himself by listening to radio or television, and that in such a case there is no need to pay fees because it does not have an independent economic significance. In addition, our Constitutional Court also dealt with this in finding II. The ÚS 3076/2013 and it is in this finding that, in the case of non-economic use, but these televisions, OSA and Intergram have no special right to collect, circumvent, collect additional charges for this use. I would ask you, fellow Members, not to give in to this brutal pressure from lobbyist groups, collective administrators, who are only trying to feed on getting another thousand for the TVs and the radio for the small workers, the tradesmen, even here in the Chamber of Deputies, and to support the motion made by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u29	Thank you, too. I have two factual points here. First Mr. Bláha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u30	I have to respond to my previous speaker, because it's not really what you're describing here, that there's something paying for employee radios and television. It's not like that. As I said, I don't like copyright, but I don't. Several times in my premises, I was approached by the OSA and others, that they had noticed from their correspondents that music was playing there. After I texted them that the employee was playing it, no one asked me to do anything. That's not how it works. If someone paid for it, it was all out of his bullshit. Normally, you can watch anything in the workplace. Through it, the employee who plays it is responsible, but it is different when it is released in public spaces, which means that in the premises where customers go, it is different. Yes. And in that moment, you have to separate it somehow. And I'm not allowed to play radio and television in my shops, and it's not taking anything away from my business. It doesn't matter at all. And if the employee wants something to watch, let him go home. He's supposed to work at work, not play a radio. Like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u31	Thank you. Now I ask Mr Klaus, Mr Klaus, with a point of fact, to prepare Mr Vácha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u32	Good evening. I would take the liberty, and not for the first time, of agreeing with the pirát, because I am generally in favour of individual freedom, I am in favour of as little as possible, but when something is done, let it happen. For example, in Norway, I completely condemn the fact that Barnevernet's private company runs child-taking, because that's what state social services is supposed to do when someone doesn't care about children. And just like when something's collected under the law, it's meant to be done by the state. And I just reject private taxes. As headmaster of the school, I've become almost an object of extortion that we have a prom where the school band will play, some college students, and now I've been getting some lists and fees and stuff. I think the move or the world is so shifted that the Senate version is okay that we're supposed to really stand up for the businessmen, for example. shavings and bakers and others playing the radio. I think that's what I'd like to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Vácha, Mr Benešík will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two comments. I'm in an amateur band, and we've been haunted by the OSA for playing our own songs, and they've even sent me bills for playing our own songs, and then they asked us to send them the names of the songs we're gonna play, so we sent them the names of the songs. I'm not gonna repeat those here. [[Fun in the hall.]] I'd be blushing if I was somewhere alone. And then we changed it, that the songs are called songs about love No. 1 and songs about love No. 2, About Love No. 3. That's one thing when the OSA somehow exploits its position. The second thing is, and the second thing is, we're still talking about places, pubs, or hairdressers, etc. It's not just an establishment where businessmen make money that a customer comes in and listens to radio music. We have to realize that they are also schools, primary schools, kindergartens, they have televisions, they have radios, and they have to pay for them. And these are, like, televisions where we have a screen outside the dining room, where it shows what the food is, but because it's got a TV in it, it's got to be paid for. And this is a fact that no one here mentioned that these are schools that have to pay. I just checked with our Lady Quaestor. And it's thousands, thousands of crowns that only one school has to pay. And how many schools we have, I'm sure you can imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u35	Thank you and please Mr Benešík, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I do not question the right of authors to protect their works. But the way in which their mental works are charged seems rather strange to me. I have a lot of experience as mayor, when our village owns and runs a guest house with a pub and a restaurant. It seemed to me that it was the collection of firearms, not that we were paying a fee. As far as copycats are concerned, we don't really copy any works of art at the municipal office, but we copy for example. He owns the documentation that we paid hard, and we're paying someone for it. You buy a carrier, it used to be a CD or DVD, today it's a flash drive, and it's already included in the price that you're going to download something significant there. And the artists, or the agencies, rather than the artists, are making money out of it. I've never downloaded anything on it, mostly pictures of my family or anything. I don't know why I have to pay for it like this. So personally, I think that the Senate version is better and that we should think about how to really protect the true authors of these works, not how to spend more money on those who charge in such a way that every normal person must find it completely illogical, sometimes immoral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u37	Thank you. That was the last point in fact at the moment, so we will return to the general debate and please Mrs GajdůGajdůšková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u38	Thank you, finally, for the floor. Mr President, the honourable Chamber of Deputies, Madam Secretary, Senator, I have been enrolled in the debate and I have been waiting for more than half an hour, so perhaps at this point in time, because I can also reply to some of the things that have been said here. So, first of all, Minister Staněk has been sitting here all day, and since, as far as I know, he has a serious duty, he's represented by the Minister. [[It's stable.]] And I'd like to put in a good word for the opinion of the Ministry of Culture. To sum up, this is what it sounds like: Let us approve the implementation amendment that is submitted, it was submitted as a government amendment to the copyright law and solves the issues it is supposed to deal with. What we are talking about here today and what the Senate has brought into this amendment is a long, different debate. And I'm kind of interrogating myself for the debate. I confess that I am not a great supporter of the OSA, as the former head of the Education and Culture Department, I also have experience with this. On the other hand, it was said here that the authors were not reduced to their rights. But the authors don't think so. You have all probably received letters, addressed me directly by letter from the Actor Association, where the president is Ondřej Kepka, and behind the Association of Authors and Performers Jiří Vondráček. I will allow myself to quote a shortcut in this letter to prove that the authors do not really feel that the Senate amendment is not being reduced to its rights. "Music, performance and other recorded artistic performances and records are the personal intellectual property of authors - authors of music, authors of texts, performers, actors, dubers, directors and publishers. It's an investment in their artwork. The authors and singers were not paid for the musical work at the time of its creation. On the contrary, the publisher invested considerable funds in the recording. It becomes the owner of this record. The reward for all rights owners is then tantiémy, fees to rights holders for the public use of recordings. It is therefore our right to offer and sell our protected content, for which a priori we do not receive an employee's salary." And I'm going to add one more sentence to that from the text that was sent to us. "The businessman has a free choice if he wants to provide his customers with a musical background in his shop, business centre, hotel or restaurant, fitness centre or lift." To that end, there was a sea of talk about lobbying. I think it is fair, therefore, if we are talking about the lobbying of authors, it must also be said that the original plaintiff in the Senate was Senator Valenta. And we all know he's a gambling operator. So I guess there was more lobbying here. Thirdly, I recall, or maybe I am telling you what you may not yet know, a petition was sent to the Senate Senate Committee of the Czech Republic, which, as far as I know, was signed not only by the representatives of the copyright associations, as I mentioned here. The Committee on Petitions should recommend negotiations on this petition, and then we should go back to dealing with copyright, productions in those really small establishments. And I am agreed, I have a promise from Mr Kepka at least in the sense that they are prepared to act on this subject. But let's do it really well, as Mr. Bláha and some others have said about it. At this point, I'm intercede to approve the MP version of the copyright, as the Minister of Culture and the Minister here asked us to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u39	I, too, thank you, and now Mr Bláha is reporting again with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u40	I'd just like to respond to a colleague who's been talking about education. You're making a mistake paying for this. The moment you state that you're using a TV as a monitor, you just don't have to pay anything. It's just ignorance. And that's what just kind of sounds in our ranks all the time. That's just the way it is! Try to contact the OSA and you'll find the situation is different. He wants it, since you're buying this thing, you need to state what you're gonna use it for. And not buy it like a TV! The moment I buy it like a TV, it's obvious I'm buying a TV. But if I'm buying from the company, she's gonna ask you, "What are you gonna use it for?" And the moment you use it on that thing, that is. You're not gonna pay a penny for it. I have ten establishments. Ten. And I don't pay a penny in either. The OSA goes there regularly for inspection, regularly there for inspection. And nobody wants anything. So it's just about the interpretation, about working with these people. They gave them what you have to present, then it works. And of course, they're gonna try to get as much money from those people who aren't able to defend themselves. It's a normal thing. That's for a fine when you walk down the street, when you build the wrong car, etc. It's all about the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u41	Thank you. Two factual points have been added. First Mr. Třešňák, then Mr. Mr. Baxa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u42	Have a nice evening. I would therefore like, through Mr President, to ask Mr Bláha to share with us the know-how in which other owners of establishments can actually circumvent the system in this way. I'm sorry I called it that. If it isn't bypassing the system, you're actually lucky, because I can now find out a lot of examples where an employee of an establishment actually played a radio for his own purposes with his own purchased music, like from some digital service, and yet the owner of the establishment was subject to sanctions. If you have this know-how, how to get around it or how to explain it, you have that statement from the collective administrators, I'd be happy if you would share it with us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u43	Thank you. I beg Mr Baxa to make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I would probably just return briefly to what my colleague, the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura, said here a while ago. We are now discussing, in my opinion, a very serious issue concerning regulation and, at the moment, the proposed fundamental changes to copyright and intellectual property regulation. And like you, of course, I have been approached by a number of associations and individuals, and I understand the arguments they bring. Since there's some stable copyright system, there's some kind of copyright treatment, intellectual property. And in my opinion, the individual collective administrators of copyright or copyright works are quite legitimately turning around in this situation, when a proposal comes from the Senate, which may impose great restrictions on them. And it would certainly be important if we had an important discussion about this. That's one plane. The other plane is that e.g. Here, the President of the Pirates' Club, Michálek, made quite serious claims, which I do not know as a person who does not know this issue in detail legally, in any way to comment, to contradict. But at this point, there should be a competent representative of the government, the Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic, and with the appropriate preparations and with the proper erudition to disprove this. I understand that Madam Secretary Dostálová is here as a representative of the government, but we will certainly not ask the Minister for Regional Development to comment on whether the current regulation is or is not contrary to the law of the European Union. And when Chairman Michálek says that what the Ministry of Culture claims is not true - it seems strange to me that experts at the Ministry of Culture are so wrong - someone should assure us. And I really consider it a big and serious problem that at this important moment, the Minister of Culture is not here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u45	Thank you. Mr Bláha's factual remark will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u46	For the last time, really. It is in what should just be the task of our Members - to unite the interpretation of the law. To unite what is walking in our republic. Imagine that hygiene wants something else in Liberec, something else in Hradec, something else in Budějovice. That's right. The interpretation of the Food Act is simply different. It's based on what kind of deputy is in there. And, of course, what you allow him to do as an operator, how you behave, how you approach it, if you can defend yourself. As I was saying, I have several establishments, and in one of them I have a screen that is 6x3 meters, every day it comes to a thousand people who pay at least. But since I'm putting on my stuff, my ads, no one can ask me to do anything. And no one's asking me to do anything. But if I were to play hockey games or music and other things, it would be different at that point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u47	Thank you. Mrs Válková will speak in the debate, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I think I'm going to disappoint you because this time it won't be a very big legal analysis or any legal analysis of the issue that's really difficult. I join the previous speaker, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, through you, Mr Vice-President, that the problem needs to be dealt with systemically. And what she has indicated, as chair of the Committee on Petitions, I will complete by reading you a very brief petition against those comprehensive petitions that have arrived at the Committee on Petitions, and for which we will certainly also act in the Committee on Petitions, adopting a resolution, a news report. However, I think that before each of us makes a decision - and here I believe it will be difficult to decide, because just as the representatives of the pirate party, the MPs for the pirate party, have generally warned, so the current situation is not satisfactory. On the other hand, I do not consider the solution proposed to be optimal either. It's out of context. It's an exception, as has been said repeatedly. Exceptions are never good, especially when they're supposed to fix the system. So the petition received is signed, but about 2,000 electronic signatures are not checked, so we do not really know how many there are, I do not doubt that it represents the opinion of a number of artists - it is as follows: We ask the Chamber of Deputies not to accept the House's proposal to amend Section 231 of the Copyright Act, because it is contrary to the fundamental rights of copyright owners, EU law, the case law of the EU Court of Justice and threatens the protection of intellectual property. The Senate proposal from Senator Valenta's pen is based on the fact that certain establishments and other facilities should not be legally obliged to pay for the use of music and audiovisual works by the owners of these rights, i.e. authors of music, lyricists, performers, musicians, actors, writers or directors or publishers who have put their own money into the production of the work. Rewards for intellectual property rights holders in the Czech Republic are undervalued several times in comparison with other countries in Europe when compared to gross domestic product, and yet the Senate comes with a modification of the amendment, which would mean a sharp reduction in the remuneration for the right-holders, an intervention in personal rights and private ownership. - Then I'll spare you the interpretation of what is intellectual property, which I think we can read either in law, commentary, textbooks. However, what I think is essential in this petition is the conclusion that the petitioners make when they write that accepting this proposal would mean that prices for a product or work of material or mental would affect the state according to the wishes of an influential user or group of users directly by law. The Senate proposal was not discussed with any authorized right-holders or lawyers on copyright and representatives of authors and performers and was not taken into account in international conventions in the field of copyright. We therefore appeal to the Chamber of Deputies and the Government not to allow this break in our legal order, and this proposal has not been accepted by the House. - Then they refer here to a closer explanation. I was limited to part of the petition, the essentials. I only add to this my own remark that copyright is one of the most complicated areas of civil law and that I do not think it would be appropriate to intervene in this way and in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u49	Thank you. And a factual comment will be made by President Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u50	Thank you for the floor. I have to apologize, but I find it really inadequate how the government defends its government's designs here. Even the speech by the Chair of the Committee on Petitions did not put forward any real arguments, only the President submitted a petition to several members of the OSA. We have learned that copyright cannot be regulated by law, which is, of course, nonsense, because the law normally specifies the scope of this copyright and its conditions of enforcement. And there was no reaction at all to the Constitutional Court's verdict in the case of VELO, where it was just some TV or radio in some bicycle repair shop or where I quoted here under file number II. ÚS 3076/13. There was also no controversy about the decision of the EU Court of Justice. [[17.40 hours]] So let's have a specific conversation. I think the government should have at least one competent representative here to deal with it. It shouldn't end just by saying, copyright, it's a complicated material that no one understands. We got a petition here from the OSA members, so we're going to approve the way it was originally, which means simple implementation without Senate proposals. So I don't think that if it goes on like this and the representatives of the government aren't gonna say anything about it, which I don't understand why they're actually here, if they're not talking about it, then I guess we're gonna have to stop because there's really no way that the only defense of the government's proposal is that Mr. Bláha is gonna come out here, that he's gonna get it done in his bakery somewhere in Liberec. That's really not enough!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u51	Thank you. A point of fact will respond, I apologise, first Mrs Válková is signed up, then Mrs Minister. [[Messenger. Can I put her first?]] You may prefer. I'll give the Minister my word. Are you reporting, Madam Secretary, with a factual remark, I presume? [[Yes.]] Otherwise, I couldn't give you my word right now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u52	Yes, in fact. Thank you. I'm just responding to Mr. Michálek. Of course, I have the answers prepared, but I kept it until the final word to sum it up, but I'm really going to respond to you. So the directive states that the author's work can be copied on paper, but not on sheet music. On this there is already a confirmation of the European Court of Justice, there is a judgment. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Article 4 (1) (a) The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. b) then allows you to reproduce on other media, but also notes, which is what our copyright law also allows. Then, of course, the reaction to your dental practice. This judgment has already been overcome by another caselaw, and if you can write it down, it is Reha Training. So you can study the opposite view of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u53	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs Válková will now respond with a point of fact, followed by Mr Bláha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u54	Mr Michálek, by your means, Mr Vice-President, so we're gonna be out here trying to figure out who's better at the case-law. I also wanted to refer to the decision of the European Court. And we've done this before, as far as I know, on the petition committee. So far, we're the seminar -- you referred me to a decision that had a different content than you mentioned there. Specifically, it was the public and the non-publicity of the negotiations. So I do not think that we should burden the Chamber of Deputies here by saying which one of us knows more modern or current European case-law. I simply say my opinion and kindly, by your means, Mr Vice-President, let me insist on my opinion. I don't want an exception, and I'm not saying that you don't have the right to support that exception by voting. So support her and let's see if we can actually achieve the number of votes we need. But the Chamber of Deputies is now discussing a Senate amendment to our amendment to the Copyright Act, and, as you can see, it is not decided, and I personally think that that is what it takes for the Committee to deal with this in order to adopt certain decisions and statements on the petition that has arrived to us, and not to vote now as you would need to vote in line with your programming focus on the pirate party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u55	Thank you. Mr Bláha's point of fact follows, followed by Mr Michálek's point of view. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u56	I must respond because if you only took from my speeches what Mr Michálek presented here through the President, I am sorry. So I'm sorry I can't communicate, that I haven't told you what I wanted to tell you. It's just that I'm following the letter of the law, the letter of how it is today. That means, I'm trying to keep those things as the copyright law is, although, as I said, I'm dissatisfied with it, and I'm challenging everyone, let's discuss it, let's change it according to what was said here. I think we'll come to a common solution, that we'll allow those small establishments to pay as little as possible, but it shouldn't be free. If someone is using someone's work for their own enrichment, they should pay for it, even if it's a minimum. You can't do that! It's like you're borrowing my shoes. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u57	Thank you. President Michálek, with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u58	Thank you for the floor. We're not talking about cases where someone's enjoying their work for their enrichment. After all, we are talking about an amendment that concerns cases where there is no economic benefit, as it says there. So I'd just like to start with this. I think, and what I was going to do with my performances was that the way Mr. Bláha is speaking here, this is how the proposal should be defended here by the Minister of Culture. I would very much like Mr. Bláh to become the Minister of Culture, but not yet. There's just no one here to defend it for the government. And I have to say, I was very focused on the Minister's statement, but I just didn't get it, the statement, so if you could elaborate on what's going on with the copying on the background, copying the notes. I'd love to hear it. I'm glad to hear that. I think it is good that the petitioner also reacts during the debate and does not keep it until the final word, when no one can respond to it, because it is not a debate, it is a series of speeches ending with a monologue. This is not a debate. So here I'd like to make sure that the statement is completed. And one last time to my esteemed colleague, Válková. We've never had a fight on the petition committee because I've never been there except for one case where I lectured on the contract register. And that's not what we were arguing about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u59	Thank you. Mr. Senator Nytra will now perform after him, Madam Secretary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u60	I'm gonna keep some of the stuff to the final word, but I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to read the wording of Section 30a of the Copyright Act, as it is stated today, because I feel like we're completely lost in this discussion. That's the copy of the guns. It does not interfere with copyright: (a) a natural person - I will not read it literally - or a legal or entrepreneurial person for his own use, one who orders for personal use by a natural person, or one who orders for his own use by a legal person or an undertaking natural person to make a printed matter etc., except in cases where it is issued a record of a musical or musically dramatic work - and now the insertion of the Senate - whose author is known. And then it goes on with a comma, and in the cases referred to in points (c) and (d), pay the remuneration in due time in accordance with Section 25. We don't change the possibility of copying, not copying. We're just saying it's nonsense to protect copyright if we don't know the author. So who are we protecting, and in whose behalf are the authors' unions performing? That is the essence of our one amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u61	Thank you, Senator. Madam Secretary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u62	I'm going to try it in a really layman's words. The directive states that the author's work can be copied on paper, except notes. So the notes can't be copied on paper, that's the exception, and that's under letter a). Point (b) states that it is possible to reproduce on other carriers, i.e. tablets, simply other carriers, even notes. So the court only confirmed there that there's no way to reproduce sheet music. I hope it's been understood by now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u63	Thank you. I will not give the floor to Mr Válek. President Michálek, with a factual remark, takes precedence. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u64	That's what's bothering me right now, because I'm in that article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) I read the directive: for any reproduction on any medium. Well, I guess paper is also any kind of carrier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u65	Thank you. Mr Válek, who has entered into the debate, is now at the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Well, I'm glad I'm not writing it down, the posts, and no one's writing it to me, because I actually want to say something completely different here than now. Well, I've been singing forty years now, in the choir. And when I'm swooning, when somebody turns me in. Not that I'm gonna get arrested, but that's probably gonna hang me from listening to it here. I'm not taking notes anymore. Not on paper at all. [[Laughter and amusement.]] We're gonna have to get in touch with the ballerinas to get a tattoo on their backs or some... [[Fun, laughter, applause.]] But... I got a gift from my son - toilet paper with notes. I don't even know if you guys... you've been stressing me out here. [[The speaker and the Members in plenary are laughing.]] I wanted to sign up for something completely different. I'm the author. I have waited through Mr President that colleagues like Professor Vyzula and others here will also act as authors, Rosť, through Mr President, Rosť, or Mr President, through Mr President, that he will perform because we have written a number of books. I wrote about 14 of them. They're all cheerfully xeroxed, copied, because unfortunately, they're scientific textbooks. Even some of them did my Ph.D. and some sort of habilitation work. We have experience with this from Parliament, too. Not only did they not pay the fine, but they defended it heroically. [[Laughs in plenary.]] Well, that justice doesn't exactly apply to everyone here. I feel like a very discriminated author. So if the OSA shouldn't represent me, too. Plus, by being a radiologist, I'm a professional photographer. Never give me a penny for any photo they copy on CD patients, no one gives. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I really don't know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I just ask all my colleagues and colleagues to maintain formal addresses in every situation. Thank you. President Bartoš with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u68	I just wanted a brief sequel to the story that we started when we were discussing the copyright law in the House, and I actually told my colleagues and colleagues that I was going to Ryba's Mass, which takes place every year at the Main Station in that vestibule. There's a thousand people there. So, in the meantime, she's been in the middle of the discussion, which depends on the state of the copyright in the matter - copying notes is normally an organized crime, because we deal on Facebook, we print the notes. Will that lady come running - do you have any gazebos? That's where somebody's handing out the gazebos copied. It's just that DILIA collects a fee from a copy of one page. Let it be your habilitation work, let it be the material from the books. Everything is the fee. Therefore, also from copying notation logically, because this is for the one paper, for the A4, so we do it all to one A4 reduction to save the total fee, which means we do not steal, I hope, the authors that we do not copy in the original size. This is simply not possible in the Czech Republic at the moment and it is nonsense. And again with any production where you just use a copy of the notes, if you copy them, it's probably okay, or I don't know. But if you use the copy, it's not allowed. Let's just change that. This fee, the reward is in the copy. It's in that copy of Dilia for making a copy like anything else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u69	Thank you. Vice-President Pikal, also with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u70	All I can do is respond to Mr. Válek's questions. I don't know if there's any work on that toilet paper or not, so that's the question. And as for your photos, there's the copyright fee paid on the disk that your patients are copying. But I'm afraid you're not represented by any authorial association of photographers. If you were, they could sign up for part of this reward, and then maybe you'd get something because you'd be a well-published author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u71	Now in the debate with priority rights representing the President of the ODS club Jana Černochová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As our President of the House of Deputies has announced here, we wanted to take a break so that we can vote this law today. So if the debate is closed at this point, I would like to propose a 30-minute break for the ODS MP, so that we can negotiate this bill today. It really wasn't about stretching it out, but we want to consult. So if no one's logged in, Mr. Vice-President, I'm asking for a break until twenty-four.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u73	It's not. I'm just gonna ask. A break after the final words, or now immediately after the end of the debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u74	After the final words, if they're not long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u75	Thank you. So no one else is reporting for the debate, and I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Yes, Madam Secretary is interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u76	Well, I'll be very brief. I would just like to remind the honourable House that this is a purely implementing regulation that responds to two new EU regulations, and this is about facilitating access to the publication of works to blind people, disabled people and reading disorders. So I'm just asking you to stick to these things. And only to reassure Mr Bartoš. So he can relax. I don't think there's a real threat of intoxicating, copying the Rybův Mass notes. The author of this musical work is reliable, reliable after death for more than 70 years. He died in 1815 and therefore his copyrights are already free and the notes to his works can be copied for a long time. As for Mr Michálek, please write. (a) is special to the letter. (b). Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u77	Thank you. Now is the senator interested in the final word? Senator Nytra has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u78	Thank you again. I'll respond to some performances. Through you, Mr Vice-President, to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Of course, the original plaintiff is Mr. Valenta. But in this context, because it can be perceived, the remark, in various ways, I would like to point out that Senate legislation had no reservations about the proposed and approved amendments. First of all. And two. I repeat what I said in the opening speech, that 56 senators spoke out for and no one, no one was against this law. Then, once again, I would like to turn to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková through you, Mr Vice-President. You said let's approve a implementation novel, nothing else. Thank you for the instructions on how to vote next week on the law on GDPR in the Senate, because the Senate press 25 and 26 is in no way just concerned with implementing the directive and the EU regulation. If it is quoted from the letter that the artists did not receive anything, then I ask how is it possible that any operator or holder of a radio or television licence must have a contract with OSA, Instagram and possibly others, so that the artists had to be paid or paid. And I don't want to get into the argument here if the money stays in the OSA or if it doesn't stay in the OSA. This is not really the subject of this novel. Finally, Mr Vice-President, I would like to address Mr Bláha through you. Right away, the opening statement, the introductory remark - without starting a debate, we will make an amendment. In other words, should I tell the Senate next week that any amendments to the Senate are inadmissible? Because we have 30 days from the adoption of approved laws to discuss your laws. And then, if your opinion should be valid, Mr Member, by your means, Mr President, then we can never accept any amendment. And I don't think that was the purpose of this performance. [[17.50 hours]] So I realize that even this Senate amendment may not be entirely ideal, but the debate that has taken place here, and I thank it for it, shows that even the existing law is not ideal, so I assume that although for serious reasons the Minister of Education could not be here, and is, I think, very well represented by the Minister, the Ministry of Culture will start working on a new law so that ultimately the proposal may not be questioned by the fact that it was formed by Members or senators on their knees. [[Cultures]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u79	Thank you, Senator. I now accept the ODS's request for a 30-minute break. I am interrupting the House of Deputies. We'll meet here at 6:30 p.m. when our negotiations continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-007-005.u80	I will allow myself to take over the presidency at this time because it has been announced to me that the CSSD and YES clubs are taking a break within 19 hours, so at 19 o'clock we could not continue to discuss this law and we would have to stop, so we will have to end now. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I'm saying goodbye. Meet me tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. over written interpelations. Please tell your colleagues at the clubs not to wait around for nothing. I'm asking the club presidents to pass it on. I repeat - we are ending today because the CSSD and YES clubs took a break within seven hours, so we can't go on, so we're done today. We will continue tomorrow at 9 o'clock, according to approved programme by written interpelations, respectively. the answers to them.
