ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended /German press 490/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, whom I ask to take her place at the rapporteur's table and to take the floor. We'll wait a little while for the atmosphere to calm down after the vote of the previous press. Only those who want to discuss the government bill on state social support will remain in the hall. And I'll ask the secretary to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me read the bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll. on State Social Support, which regulates, in particular, the increase in parental contribution from the current 220 000 to 300 000 crowns, starting January next year...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u3	I would ask that we remain calm here in the hall so that the Minister can present the opening report on this press, so that we know what we are discussing, so that we can all be clear about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u4	Thank you. In the case of multiples, we will maintain a ratio of 1.5 times that amount, which is still 330 thousand to the new 450 thousand crowns of parental allowance. While the prices of drugs, diapers, infant food, clothing, but also energy and rent have increased over the past 12 years, the parental contribution has not moved a crown in the last 12 years. Therefore, social democracy has pushed an increase in parental contribution into the coalition treaty and into the government's programming declaration. For example, if we look at the most common length of parental intake, i.e. up to three years of child's age, while so far the family has received approximately CZK 7,000 a month, then after the increase, if this proposal is approved, they will be able to improve their family by CZK 2,700 in a three-year variant, which means CZK 9,700. These less than CZK 2,700 are essential improvements to their budget for most families. And you know that every crown comes in handy when children are small. If families draw parents faster than the three-year option, higher monthly amounts can be drawn. Just for the sake of illustration, let's have it in numbers. Thus, for comparison, the medium-income family will be an increase of about 9 percent. So this is a crucial signal that family support is crucial to our government and, above all, we are not just staying on the floor. I guess I don't have to remind you that I have fought from the beginning for a variant that would be the most righteous for families, i.e. for all families with the youngest child within four years, but for budgetary and time reasons there has been a compromise at the level of the government. And I think that this is a victory for most families with the smallest child within four years, and that it really is once again a signal that even at the time of saving, we have pushed through such a very helpful step of the family. The parental allowance is currently received by 280 thousand families and the proposed option will affect about 80 percent of the families from this amount. [[16.20 hours]] In a nutshell, what exactly is involved. This option will cover all families with the youngest child within four years who will actively receive parental allowance on 1 January 2020. Our parental contribution system offers parents a great deal of flexibility. Everyone can choose the family strategy that suits him most, quickly return to work, or actually be home and take care of their children until their fourth birthday. But this high level of individualization means the relative complexity of our parenting support system. However, the monthly amount can be changed every three months, which allows us to respond to the current situation of the family. However, the maximum threshold corresponding to 70 per cent of previous revenue is always valid, so-called day-to-day measuring basis. For the sake of simplicity, it is the same amount as for motherhood cash assistance, so the amount that moms in particular received during maternity leave represents the maximum amount that families can draw under parental leave. The top line-- once again, I'm stressing it. Another fundamental change that has taken place in these discussions, but which I am personally very happy about, and it is good news especially for those families who want to reconcile work and family, is the increase in the limit for the attendance of a child under two years of age in pre-school establishments and receiving parental allowance at the same time, twice as much. The entitlement to receive parental allowance will thus be maintained for children under two years up to a limit of 92 hours per month, which will help to reconcile work and family in a significant way, as I have already said. This concerns, in particular, stays in children's groups financed by European funds and hence from public sources. I would also like to stress that raising the parental contribution is the first step in a number of national measures that I will promote in the coming months. If the Czech Republic is to be a truly pro-family country, where working people want to have children and also where they are to have as many children as they want, we need to provide them with suitable conditions today. That is why, in the coming months, I want to promote, in line with the government's programming declaration, the re-establishing of nursery, which means quality and affordable care for children under the age of three, by transforming and improving children's groups and ensuring their systemic financing. After all, it is also a thing that is every year within the so-called. Country specific recommendations recommended by the European Commission. Development of part-time jobs and especially available rental housing for young families with children. This means that, in the coming months, I will come yet, or we will come as a government with proposals for re-establishing and systemic financing of nursery, supporting part-time jobs, as well as developing available rental housing for working families with children. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to ask you to support this proposal, because the aim of the proposed regulation is primarily to financially support families with young children, to facilitate their upbringing and care for their offspring, to increase quality of life for families with young children, and to appreciate their efforts, which are socially extremely important. I think we can all agree on that. Because working families with children raising future generations are crucial to our society. After all, we know from abroad that where families with children have a convenient, friendly environment, there is also a higher birth rate. And I personally also consider a higher birth rate than the current - 1.7 child per woman - a prerequisite for maintaining the welfare state not only on the issue of old-age pensions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u5	I thank the Minister. I will ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to take the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Mr Government, colleagues, first of all, I would like to point out that the Minister's sentences, that she or the ČSSD have pushed into a government statement, are probably true, but we have the government by joining CSSD and YES and this law, if it passes, and I think it will pass this bill, so it will be passed across the political spectrum. So, listen here and pretend who's the biggest credit, I don't think anybody cares much anymore. I would like to begin by saying that today is a nice day for seniors, whom we have approved an increase in pensions, and I hope that it will be nice for parents of parents' children - I will not tell mothers, because today they are also fathers who are proposing an increase in parental allowance by the amount that the Minister has said. I'm sorry that there were a lot of parents who wrote to us yesterday, and I'm sure you, too, were looking forward to discussing it yesterday. Unfortunately, this has been extended by discussions about another law, so I'm glad it got its turn today. As we all know, support for families with children in the Czech Republic is very good compared to other countries. Child care is very demanding in terms of time, money and energy. I guess I don't have to stress that here. But even though it's a natural part of family life for the vast majority of parents, we have to take into account...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u7	Yes, Madame, you're right. Even though we're not that much in the room, the noise isn't pleasant. So I'm going to ask all of you to transfer your discussions to the lobby so that we can continue calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u8	Thank you, Mr President. So I repeat, for the vast majority of parents, it's a natural part of family life. We must take into account that the cost of living is increasing, as the Minister also stressed. And the pressure of society to reconcile family and working life is also growing. Children are a joy to all of us, but also a great responsibility and concern. Above all, and I would like to emphasise several times that children are our future. It is therefore appropriate to make the situation easier for families with children, at least in the beginnings, when caring for the child - now, please, in quotation marks - makes the family the most difficult. That is why we will now be debating the draft amendment to the State Aid Act, which should thus work. As the Minister has already said, the amendment regulates seven areas, the most visible of which is the increase in parental allowance to 300 000, respectively. 450,000 crowns. Care for the youngest child will be more appreciated and parents will also have freer hands in choosing the amount and length of parental allowance. Another is the adjustment of the child's attendance at preschool facilities, as was said, when it increases from 46 hours to 92 hours. Furthermore, according to the amendment, the parental contribution should be included in the decisive income for all the benefits of state social support tested, which can mainly relieve low-income families. The amendment also provides for simpler administration and legislative technical specifications. The proposed adjustments, which aim in particular to increase the rate of appreciation for the care of young children and to allow better reconciliation of work and private life of caring parents, correspond, as has been said, to the entire government's programming declaration. Here I would like to add that caring parents are also an important group of consumers who in many cases return almost everything to the system. As I said in the introduction, children are our future. Every crown we spend in their direction will be returned to us someday, not just in terms of finance. I will not forgive another remark that I am very sorry that the proposal of this amendment has unleashed and so slightly opened the scissors between our seniors and our parents, because, as you know, we all went to e-mails and discussed it at various meetings that we had, that we would add everyone to the seniors, and here we are doing some elimination and exceptions. So I'm kind of sorry that we're actually opening some scissors with this. And I feel like some people think we want to take someone. On the contrary, we're adding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. And I am opening up a general debate in which I have six Members of Parliament registered at the moment. The first is Mrs Richterová, and Mrs Pekarová will be ready. And I'm saying there are seven applications at the moment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we can also discuss something positive. The pirates certainly welcome the proposal to increase the parental contribution, supporting it. We're glad it's finally our turn. We would have liked it to be decided long ago, so that tens of thousands of parents would not have to be in doubt. At the same time, however, I would very much like this debate, which this amendment will inevitably launch, to allow for a debate on long-term solutions. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the long stagnant contribution is now to be increased, which is without debate for us. But it is the arguing, the squabbling that we have witnessed in recent months, that is the reason for us to present a solution that would be long-term. Regular valorisation of a similar pension based on the economic state of the country, i.e. how prices rise, what inflation is, and at the same time based on a certain share as well as on wage growth. Valorisation, which would only mean that the real amount of the parental contribution remains the same. It is important to say that, as we are used to putting fixed amounts into our laws, the real value of the fixed amounts is, of course, constantly decreasing every year. I just want to briefly outline the parameters, which will, of course, be the subject of further discussion. I am glad that a number of other colleagues and colleagues have made a proposal for regular automatic validation of parental contribution sound meaningful, and, of course, as pirát, we are open to some modifications to the proposal. But after all, let me introduce very briefly what is at the heart of our proposal. The point is that there would actually be a gradual start-up, since the valorisation would involve new beneficiaries of the contribution, there would no longer be a retroactive valuation, in any case. And that would be the essence of the matter. So you know the total amount at the start of receiving a parent's allowance. Therefore, there would only be an increase in the total amount each month, based on the above mentioned economic data from the previous year. Basically, that's the way it would have been. And for the idea of how it might be in practice, provided that the economy develops in a similar way as it has in recent years, as it might seem. It would be approximately 10,000 in 2021 for that total amount, about 11,000 in 2022, about 12,000 in 2023. Thus, the parental contribution could gradually increase by such amounts. And that's the point that it wouldn't be worth anything to an individual, but it would mean that there would be no more such jumping big differences that will occur in January of this year after, as we assume, an increase in parental contribution will be approved. In addition to this fundamental proposal for this gradual valorisation, we are presenting two more minor amendments, if again we would like to discuss it, for the opinions of others. But at the same time, we think it's very important to talk about it. And although, in the submitted proposal from the government pen, from the Ministry's pen, there is no solution to the fact that the total amount is increasing, but it is not, in fact, also proposed to increase the lower limit of drawdown. It's CZK 7,600 a month today. And if you count on me for a second, it's pretty simple. Today, with a total amount of CZK 220,000 per parental allowance and this lower draw limit of CZK 7,600, it is actually the time when a person, like a woman, who got pregnant in college and was not employed, so he does not have the daily assessment base calculated on salary or salary, can receive parental allowance for 29 months. Twenty-nine months can then be extended, broken down, but this is the minimum time it has to take. And if this bottom line doesn't increase, then actually if we divide 300,000 by seven and a half thousand, or 7 600 crowns, we're at 39.5 months. So we're actually going to motivate people to be on that parent for at least three and a half years. That seems unreasonable to us. We'd just like the border to stay for about 30 months. And it seems very important to us that even in the law the share should be anchored, the thirtyth of the sum. Not a specific number. I'd like to make another remark. If anyone is concerned that this could lead to some unfortunate life strategies for people without the daily assessment base, I think it is really important to say that the amount of parental allowance, by this income, is reduced again by entitlement to other benefits, such as housing contributions. So it can be said that where there are concerns, there will only be an increase in the parental allowance, but a reduction of possibly other benefits. And the third thing I'd like to mention. This has already been mentioned, for example, in the Minister's report and in the rapporteur's report. The big disagreements, the feeling of great injustice in that group of parents who have little children, but have returned to work. Of course, social networks already have clear instructions on how to actually secure the right to increase your parental allowance, how to extend your collection now, for example, by decomposeing payment and having only, for example, fifty-coron, a month. The group of parents, who will simply be entitled to it on January 1st, is increasing so significantly, but at the same time, the great injustice remains that whoever has returned to work cannot do this anymore, he has exhausted. [[16.40 hours]] That's why we were looking for a compromise solution to at least give these parents a chance. We propose to this House a solution which, of course, will not be entirely 100% fair, but still does not create such a fundamental gap between a parent who has the same old child but is back at work, has problems with putting children in preschool facilities, how to deal with illness and the like, and the parent who is at home. We want it to really still be true that it pays to go to work. And we propose that we take into account the child's age, so that whoever has a two-year-old child on January 1st and is back at work has roughly the possibility of increasing it gradually selected, of course, within the monthly limits that remain valid, so that he can increase by approximately CZK 40,000. This is the substance of the compromise proposal concerning the circle of beneficiaries. When we counted the costs, it should encourage people not to delay their return to work so that they do not feel motivated to stay on parenting, so it should burden the state budget at most with about a billion crowns. Let me get this straight. We welcome the increase in parental contribution as the Pirates' MP, we will support this proposal and at the same time we would like to contribute to a long-term solution, so that it is not necessary to open this regularly. We will therefore submit a concrete proposal for a implementation scheme similar to pensions, now we are sending it out for consultation to all who are interested in this topic. At the same time, we would like the increase in the total amount to be reflected in the increase in the lower draw limit and, at the same time, in some way, the increase for working parents. It is clear to us there that a compromise solution will be needed, which is why we assume such a compromise solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u11	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Pekarová, Mr Bauer will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finally getting to discuss such a delicate subject and a subject on which, in essence, there is quite a rare consensus across the political spectrum. However, please also remember in part the history that led to the debate before we finally received the proposal as Members. This path has led through several partial steps, which are worth remembering and which have a great influence on the fact that a large part of parents are still dissatisfied with what mechanism and what particular form they have been chosen here. At the beginning of this whole journey to increase the parental contribution, the government's promise to be raised in two steps stood. So the original promise was that it wouldn't increase by the full amount of the 80 grand, but it would go gradually over 40,000. Subsequently, the government found that it was unable to find a consensus, and it did not have these funds within the budget, which are not small, in the context of which was taken into account for the current year and the previous one as well. That means she revised her promise of the original 40 plus 40,000, i.e. a gradual increase, and she came up with the idea that it would be wiser to increase by an entire 80,000. But these 80,000 you also, and these are in the sum of billions of course, we see this in this proposal, it is over 8 billion. CZK, did not take into account the budget for 2019 and therefore postponed the proposal itself, i.e. the increase, which according to the original promises should have occurred already this year. That is why I have tabled an amendment to the 2019 budget, which would enable the government to fulfil this government's promise, which, from July onwards, would have actually been possible from this month onwards, to increase the contribution for current parents, and at that time, of course, to fulfill that promise by CZK 80,000. Of course, as it turned out, we know, he hasn't been approved, and the will to prepare the proposal so that it can still be made for 2019 was probably not too big, either, because we're only getting to him now. This was preceded by such an argumentative spring, let's say when the government parties were unable to agree on what form of increase will be implemented. One coalition meeting was based on a report from the Minister presented in such a very happy way that she is satisfied with the compromise, that the increase will actually take place from 2020 for all newly born children, then within 24 hours, after the great criticism by parents in particular, but even us opposition MEPs, the Minister began to reverse, let's say, and began carefully considering that it would actually be wise to proceed to some other, more sensible, say fairer option. Why I say all this is what the rapporteur has already mentioned, and I think that this needs to be borne in mind. This situation, the constantly changing attitude about how, in which all will receive an increased parental contribution, it led to the fact that parents, of course, who are very interested because it concerns them, have not only become very involved, which is certainly commendable and well. On the other hand, it also often pits them against each other, because some are satisfied with the resulting proposal, of course, more when it touches them, and some much less because they expected to touch them too, and eventually find that they did not. So their discontent and some sense of injustice and injustice are quite, I would say, great. This is definitely not a good situation. So it is not only that families with children versus seniors are supposed to be pitted against each other, but also individual groups of parents who simply felt or had hope, because it was the very first version of the Minister that everyone with a child under four years of age would achieve an increase. Now they find that they're not, and they're angry. TOP 09 from the very beginning was for the option that would be for actively pumping parents. It seems to us that this is a version that takes into account the philosophy of what the parental contribution is intended for. That this is a benefit, which is intended to compensate for the loss of salary or salary of the parent who is with the child, care for him, and therefore cannot work fully at that time, although of course flexibility for the contribution is already large and can work partly certainly, but it is the reward for taking care of the child, not the child benefit, as many may seem. So, while, of course, there have been various changes in the past years and changes that have made it possible to be more flexible, I think that this is quite large, whether it is in the sense that it is possible to determine for how long we are going to draw, of course there are a number of conditions that need to be met, whether it is in the fact that we can take turns, both parents can choose every three months that three months will be a father, three months a mother, etc., and so they can do it all the time they are pumping, so of course there is still something to improve and how they can do it. I believe that, in fact, here in this case, the proposal is ultimately not ambitious enough to address the increase itself. It is the path that we would have chosen from the very beginning, so I certainly do not criticise it in this regard, on the contrary, we agree with this. But there have also been a number of other, partial things that would be appropriate to deal with and for which this amendment has no ambition. One of these problems, which we think we should finally open, or which we should start debating, is whether the longest version of the four-year-old draw is not too long. He's a world unique. We know that in many countries there is only one year of support that can be called our parental leave. Of course, there are quite different systems for that, so it's always compared to a certain one - it's not exactly a precise comparison, to be exact. [[16.50 hours]] On the other hand, the four-year variant is really something that doesn't have much like it. Perhaps they only have one in Slovakia. And of course, in order to reduce the maximum to three and a half years or three years, it must be accompanied by a number of other steps, it cannot in itself be accompanied by the necessary other things, such as increasing the capacity of preschool facilities, guaranteeing entitlement to the placement of a child in kindergarten in three years, even for those born in the autumn months, so mostly if the capacity is filled, they will not get, etc. So this would have to be hand in hand with that. But we should have the ambition to look at the system much deeper as a whole and to see what its limits are, where its problems are and where, on the contrary, we have the challenges that we should meet. It's not just because of the international comparison. It is simply because we know that it causes a number of problems for women who are most often the ones who take care of children and stay at home with them. And in the case of those who may not be able to reconcile in the course of care with some short-time work or some work, then there is a big blackout on the labour market, especially when the children have more than one in a row. And then, of course, there are bits in terms of their other career options, and hence, in particular, wage and salary. That's why we have such a big gap between men and women's salaries. This is, of course, not the only reason I want to point out that I am aware of this, but this matter plays a rather substantial role in this. Then, of course, it is also reflected in the lower pensions of these women. And that, of course, is what she is doing here, as is known, to address the current government within the framework of the Commission, which she has set up, which is why she has named it even so that it should relate to just pensions. I think that this is all just the mess of the whole subsequent problem that goes on as such a red thread through life, and then, of course, it's hard to fix at a time when there's little to do about it. One of the key steps to the flexibility that we should try to achieve constantly is contained in this proposal and it is an adjustment to the attendance of a child in a collective establishment. That's where I think it's only right. Thank you for treating me like this. I hope that this time there will be no attempt to change that with any amendments, because this amendment could have gone through during the last parliamentary term. Some of us suggested it, unfortunately it didn't work. On the other hand, some flexibility could still be given to families, and I will try to include my amendment, which I am already awaiting in advance and which concerns the possibility of the child's grandparents receiving a contribution. It's kind of my evergreen, so you've probably heard a lot about it from me, but I'll remind you that the main problem is that if he wants and can take care of a child, a grandparent who's still a working age, and therefore he should still be employed or going to work, he can't be paid by the state of health insurance as he is a parent, and he doesn't even count on that time until he retires. In this case, this simple adjustment could help to expand a variety of options that, by the way, already works in many families long ago, but then those grandparents of those children have to face the state either as unemployed and basically cheating on them to have these exact claims or to lose them, they have to pay for them themselves. This, I think, is a pretty simple adjustment that could very simply change the range of possibilities to match the life that many families already live today. The automatic valorisation that some here want to approach, and the previous speaker mentioned it, is certainly something that we should also try to introduce. I completely agree that it is those undignified moves about how much it will be, who it will be for, how it will work, and then subsequently caused by the huge disappointment of certain groups of people - that would be avoided. It is at all a system that, as TOP 09, we want for as many social benefits as possible, for those that are of a type such as the need for parental contribution. But let me remind you that we have already tried to enforce this mechanism in the care allowance. And because the government also rejected it at the time because it was not ready for it itself, we also adopted a accompanying resolution, which, by the way, will soon be its term, and I so gently remind the Minister, is approaching the deadlin, and that it is precisely the government that is about to come up with a mechanism that will allow the valorisation of care contributions so that it is given by law, so that political forces do not have to and cannot interfere with it. The same system would certainly benefit from the care allowance, the parental allowance, and other benefits that we often discuss here. Automatic valorisation, as promised by Mrs Richterová on the pirate side, will have our support, because it is a matter which, in my opinion, is also... Or should be the ambition of this proposal long ago. And it's a shame the government doesn't come up with it. As regards the simplification of the use of other things in general, I would also like to commend the Ministry for the simplification that has taken place since July for parents who are applying for parental contributions. I want to say finally. I even looked up a letter in my archive I'm keeping that I sent to the Labor Office four years ago that they should try to do something like this. So I am very glad that with the Czech Social Security Administration, the Labour Office and all those involved in the benefits that the parents of young children receive, they are trying to move these things to the benefit of them so that they do not have to fly some papers from devil to devil, as they say. So, thank you very much for this, I think that these steps should not only take place in these doses. However, the amendment we are discussing raises some concern with another group, a very important group of our pillar of care provision for the smallest children, namely those who run children's groups. The Minister herself mentioned that she will come up with an amendment that should address the financing of children's groups, because they are at risk of being stopped from raising money from European funds. And I have to say that as I am in contact with them and communicate with them, they are a little concerned that the government, when squabbled like this, can be said to be 8.6 billion, which costs this measure, is able to find more money, and it will certainly also be at least hundreds of millions, maybe just a billion or more, just for children's groups. I strongly hope that this will happen, because when we lose this important pillar of care, so much and I dare say thousands of families with young children will be thrown back into the impossibility of real choice whether they want to reconcile work with their family or just care for their children. With all due respect to those who only care, of course. So I want to interpret this concern here, and I want to appeal too much so that it doesn't just end with a parent's contribution, so that we can actually get the money for the children's groups. Another important part of this whole issue - because everything is related - is, of course, the provision of short-time jobs and the possibility of part-time employment. The fact that there is an adjustment in the length of children's attendance in preschool facilities, in collective care, is one very beneficial thing. But if it is not accompanied in parallel with the care that needs to be available, which I was talking about a moment ago, but also by the fact that the parent who wants it will also be able to find a part-time job, even in times when unemployment may not be so record low anymore and when employers are much more in touch with parents with young children, it will still be just theorizing, which will be without real options. [[17,00 hours]] That is why I wanted us to include a proposal at the meeting right after this point, which we have put forward with fellow Members some time ago and which concerns the short-term commitments and contributions paid for them. And I am very sorry that when they talk to the media, everyone is terribly supportive of the short-term, but then, when there is a real opportunity to do something about them and really help their offer to the Czech Republic rise, no one wants to support it even on the program. I don't get it. It feels like a contradiction between words and actions, and I'm sorry. And so, if there's anything that the government has to do with its own, then I'm willing to understand it, and I'm going to take it, yes, there's an effort to enforce its own proposal, but there's no such thing here from the government, and I don't even have the information that it needs to be dealt with in the government, and yet there's still talk about the need for such a solution. So please, let's have some pure wine. You don't really want it, and that's how you tell the voters. Please, nicely, when we talk about shared jobs, the Labour Code, it's not the same thing and it's not the same, or it's the same from the employee's point of view, it's also part-time, but the solution is the one that the employers can do without. But the fact that they have to pay higher contributions for part-time than would be fair is much, let's say, a more functional measure. That is why we are also promoting it, and we will be very happy if you think about it, and next time we ask for it again, perhaps you will be more inclined to do so. So I guess I'd be coming to the conclusion here. I really tried to be brief, although it doesn't seem like it, but I would like to appeal to us not only to stay on the money debate, to talk about the system as a whole, and to set a little bit higher goals than just to add and make a few cosmetic - albeit beneficial - changes and to think about not only automatic valorisation, but also the length of parental contribution, which we have in our country, because it has a lot of conventions that we all know about. We hear that from experts all the time. The impact on the employment of these people is really great and it should be started, in my opinion, because this debate will certainly not be easy, we are all aware of that for some time now. But if we don't start, we're gonna swing back into the next term, and we're gonna be back to square one. I don't think any of those involved deserve that. And I very much hope that during the next two years that we have here this parliamentary term, we will agree to this debate, we will embark on it, and I would very much like it if we could finish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Before I give the floor with a factual remark to Mr Roman Sklenák, I will read two apologies. First, Mr Václav Votava apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 17 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons and Dr Jaroslav Dvořák for today's meeting from 16 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So, Mrs Pekarová Adamová has taken it really comprehensively, but let me respond to at least two things. That one thing, repeatedly mentioned, that we have the longest parental leave in the world and that we need to do something about it. I'm proud to have such a long parental leave. And that's not the duty of those women to be on parental leave for four years. The advantage is that every woman can choose whether she wants to go straight to work from the hospital or whether she wants to be with the children. Neither the first nor the second one is privileged or disadvantaged, so, for God's sake, leave those women who want to be with the children so they can be with them! Not everyone really wants to go straight to work from the hospital. Then let them do it. The state doesn't lose it. And, of course, they're very well aware that the longer they're with the kids, the harder it's gonna be to get back into the work process, and the worse it's gonna be, but they're willing to pay this tax. Please understand. And the other thing. It is a pity that you didn't go further in the past, as the history of raising parental contributions was, because the last government to increase parental contribution was the government of social democracy in 2006, and the change took place since 2007, then your governments came along and you did nothing about it. You didn't raise it by a crown just to be sure. And now you come and say how indecisive we were, how much to lift it, and how we changed those attitudes, and that we were building those families with children against the elderly. No, on the contrary. We raise incomes for both seniors and families with children. Whoever opposed them was you when you reduced the elderly' pensions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u15	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. With a factual remark, Mrs Pekarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u16	We talked about pensions here in the previous points in the morning, and I would like to remind you, my colleague, by means of the President, that it was also your Minister who warmed up at your convention how the pensions were really higher in Kalousek. Well, you find it, you can quote it, then you can find the facts, and then you can tell me something about somebody cutting pensions. Nobody cut them down, first of all. That's a lie! That's literally a lie. It's definitely never been a reduction. It didn't take such a high increase from the point of view of the absolute number, because today we're talking about increasing, about legal 720 CZK and 180 CZK, which you're giving beyond that law, but from the point of view of relative to average salary, to average wage, we're below today - and I'm here to show you this graph, I'm happy to bring it to you - before it was... or before it's for you now. And for us, it was more than that. Well, that's one thing. The second thing you mentioned here-- about the length. You know, some things are a seeming advantage, and then they turn out to be a real disadvantage. And in this case, I'm quite interested in the Minister's opinion, if it is entirely consistent with yours, that the fact that we have a four-year-old to four-year-old variant is actually such a big advantage. Because if I know her opinions well, and if nothing's changed about them, I dare say she won't agree with you completely. And it's not like you have to go straight from the hospital, like you're demagogically saying, back to work, and that's how those women are gonna vote for everyone. That's not true. The choice is to remain, of course, always, but I'm just saying that some of these groups don't even have the choice, it's just a reminder that you know what we're talking about here, and also that the overall length then is really whip to those women. [[Time warning]] And maybe not all of them are aware of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u17	Thank you. Member Jiří Bláha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that this topic has opened up here, because maternity time is very difficult... dis-ku-ti... [[The President suggests: debatable.]] Well, we just know what's going on. And it needs to be addressed because it's not just four years that women go to maternity leave for. It's in effect five years, those women who have it in their head set up to look forward to the mother's, so most of them are leaving, and believe that some really after three days of getting pregnant, so in effect it's five years of exclusion from the system. And some even have it so that it hasn't just been five years. It's five years plus another maternity leave, so ten years. And at that point, we're getting into this state that these people are totally gonna lose track of what it's like to get up to work, organize their family life the way it should be organized, and, of course, somehow move on to some kind of habit. Believe me, I see it every day. Every day those people who want to go back to work have problems with it because they are unable to secure their family because they have lost the habits that are normal to all of us who go to work every day. [[17.10 hours]] So I would suggest, let's raise the maternity allowance or what we want to raise them up to 480 grand, but for those who will be home for two years. And to those who want to be four, let us leave the current amount, because we will contribute by paying social and health for them. Let us remember that we pay social and health payments for those people who are not in the system, and we will also give them adequate pensions. So try to think about it and let's talk about it. I believe that we will come to some conclusion that will motivate those who want to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u19	Thank you. Mr Černohorský, Minister Maláčová, Mrs Pastuchová and Mrs Nevludová will make factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u20	Thank you for the floor. I confess, Mr President, that if I were a woman who would become pregnant and need a nurse somewhere in an infectious ward, I would immediately go to the hospital. The same thing I said in the past, my mom may be working in the zoo, so people who work physically or are potentially in some more dangerous environment, so they immediately go to sick leave to lose the baby. And it's really a fact that these women can be on sick leave or sick leave for parents up to four years, but that's how we set it up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u21	Thank you. Madam Secretary Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u22	Thank you. I will only briefly respond to Mr Bláha, as regards my personal positions, and the individual complaints that have fallen here, so I will respond to them at the end of the discussion. But please, you can see that you didn't raise, give birth, and raise any child, because to say about women who care for one, two or more children, that they lose their working habits like getting up, etc., that's really... Don't be mad at me, Mr. Ambassador, but that's really completely outgunned. I think there is no more demanding mission or profession than it is the care of young children. So please, if you don't have a personal experience of caring for a child, which is 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, please don't value it and don't tell us that women who take care of young children are losing their basic habits at work. They may be losing their qualifications with their long-term stay, but that's completely different from working habits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u24	I'm sorry to respond to my colleague from my MP's club, but you're out of line, my colleague. I don't know how you figured someone could be home for five years or four years. If so, it is recognized by a doctor and it is a risky pregnancy. I can say from my personal practice, as a paramedic, I can't -- not now of course, but my colleague -- sit in that ambulance, because when we get to a patient who kicks her in the stomach, it just doesn't work. He can't go to dispatch, so he's staying at home. So it's probably a little bit the doctors' fault that they're gonna write the risky pregnancy. It's not that woman's business. I don't know what kind of practice you guys take from, like, your stores, your bakeries or your production, I really don't know. And do I have to agree with the Minister - the habits of losing a woman? She doesn't feed, she doesn't breastfeed, she doesn't change, she doesn't cook, she doesn't care about her husband, she doesn't burn? It's just that I don't think it's my mother's duties - I don't say vacations, these days it's men on maternity leave... But making a statement like that at the expense of women and mothers seems really unfair to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u25	Thank you. Mrs Nevludová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Bláha. [[The noise in the hall.]] Please, you have the floor. And I'll ask for peace in the hall! Hello! Quiet in the hall, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm going to join my two colleagues here because I raised two children myself, mothering me, being at home with both of them for four years, so what Mr. Bláha here said pissed me off, too. 'Cause I jumped into a work trial with my mother and I didn't have a problem getting up at 5:00 in the morning and arriving at 5:00 in the afternoon. And I think what my colleague Marian just said is that as much love as you give the child, as much will come back to you after that, is entirely true. And it's not about the length of four years with the baby just on maternity leave. That was really out of line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u27	Thank you. I see that Mr Bláha's factual remark has raised emotions as usual, and Mr Bláha has two more minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u28	Dear colleagues, believe me, I certainly don't want to arm responsible parents and mothers. I appreciate every mother who works honestly and takes care of the kids because that's an incredible thing to do. And believe me, I know what it's like to go to work and raise children. We raised two children during business, both children successfully entered kindergarten, first to daycare at two, now we practice it on our grandchildren, because my two children are doing business with us, and that's all we have left. But I want to talk about the fact that we want to be budgetaryly responsible. This is where we all talk about how we think about the future. So let's really think about her. Let's think about the families so that they can really touch some money to make a difference between those who abuse it and those who need the money to move on so that they don't lose the chance to live normally. That is why I would suggest that we give more to those who are responsible, because they will pay for it themselves. They're gonna contribute to it, they're gonna go to work after two years. And that means we can't just give them 300, we can give them 480 grand and save the state on it. Plus, he's not gonna lose his work habits. It's a little different, organizing a family when I'm at home all day, or organizing a family when I go to work. It's just different. And you're saying they don't have love for children abroad? That they're acting different? In Belgium, where my assistant went, they live permanently now, they're only four months old. So they're irresponsible there? Is that where they're at? Are the kids more stressed? Look how confident foreign athletes are. And most of the kids grew up there that she'd been going to preschool facilities since the year. So you're saying other countries are worse off? [[The President draws attention to the time]] [[The President draws attention to the time and thanks.]] So just think about it. And I really didn't want to impress you women here, that I don't appreciate your work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u29	Mr. Ambassador, I told you your time was up, yet he raised four more factual points. So the first is Mr Sklenák, Mrs Pekarová, Mr Ferjenčík and Mrs Richterová will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u30	I didn't want to make so many factual remarks, unfortunately it happened. I don't want to do this now, either. However, I must respond to Mrs Pekarová Adamová, who has accused me of lying. I simply insist that under your governments, the valorisation mechanism for calculating pensions has changed to one third of the growth in real wages and one third of the growth in inflation and the actual decline in pensions. Just for comparison, the government of social democracy, after returning to government, has changed the valorisation mechanism by increasing pensions by the whole of inflation and half the growth in real wages nowadays. And that's why they're increasing by hundreds of crowns today, and they would have gone up even if we hadn't adopted the law we were discussing before this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u31	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Pekarová, Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u32	So I did not want to call on this shrink that we are witnessing, and Mr Bláha, through the President, I ask that he study the systems first, because he often mixes pears, apples, maternal ones - parents are not the same, and so on. But I was just talking about it, it's gonna be hard if we're gonna talk about whether or not four years really is the right length. And as you can see, it's true. This is going to be a very difficult debate. And to my colleagueSklenák through the President, once again. The ratio, when it was 42 percent in right-wing governments to average wages, at this point you get to some 38 percent. So this is reality, so we don't have to lie to each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u33	Thank you. Mr. Ferjenčík. Mrs Richterová and then Mr Bláha will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond briefly to my colleague Bláha through you. Mr. MP, if you yourself are in the worst tenth of the members of your club to participate here, that means more than a quarter of the vote you're not here at all, I find it somewhat inappropriate to master others' work habits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u35	Mrs Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u36	Thank you for the floor. Now back to Mr Bláha's substantive questions. He asked if young children are more stressed when they are in collective establishments from four months of age. And I can be happy to tell him that that's why no one here opposes our parents, because that's what studies are made that very young children in collective establishments, of course, suffer from great stress, is measured from saliva, and that's why in many other countries, from the early placement of very young children into collective establishments, they are abandoned. Of course, as the Minister spoke about the need for childcare services, let's say, from the year of age and above, we need this, I do not want to contradict this at all, but four-month-olds are under stress in a collective establishment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u37	Thank you, Madame. I will ask that we conduct internal discussions outside the Chamber. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Bláha is also registered here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u38	Dear colleagues, I really don't want to train you here, and I don't want to be trained to study anything. I've been doing what you're talking about for 30 years in practice, in everyday practice, so that's what I talk about with these people every day, and I have to coordinate my company's work plan every day on how they need mothers who take care of children. So we also meet them by shortening work time or taking up other hours and so on and so on. I don't know, if you even know that when someone gets on maternity leave, the company has to pay him off for that vacation period normally, classically, for a whole year. That means if the woman in question extends her motherhood to another child without coming to work, but she still falls under the responsibility of getting in, then the company will pay the entire year of leave to the woman who took the maternity leave, like, four years ago. That's what we do, and you don't know anything about it. Firms are incredibly burdened. They have to keep these people in a job. The moment they don't hold him, of course, they're somehow drawn to it and they might be drawn to it, and it's extremely difficult to work in this system in some way. And my words certainly do not point to making things worse here, but just to make it better. We need to work on an overall support system for parenting and invent a whole range of supportive things so that we don't have a 1.7 birth rate, but we're going to have a 2.3 birth rate. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u39	Thank you. Madam Secretary with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u40	Really. Thank you. I'm just going to set the record straight with Mr. Bláha. It is not that you would be entitled to leave during maternity leave for a whole year, but only after the duration of maternity leave, when you receive cash assistance for maternity. This is a fundamental difference and it is a matter that comes from European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u41	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u42	I will ask the Minister through Mr President to actually study this. Because the moment he works, he's working in a real way, he's on the sickness and maternity leave, and he's gonna fulfill the working hours fund, which is 60 days worked, but he's not working because he's on that maternity leave, so she's entitled to the whole vacation. Study it, you'll find it's completely different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u43	Thank you. We've exhausted the factual points. We can go back to the general debate. Mr. Jan Bauer. Mrs Hyťhová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I was here recently, about last week, he said that when the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs entered the Chamber of Deputies, one of the few that aroused emotions, so I must, Madam Secretary, either apologize or rather correct my position. You're not the only one who gets emotional around here from time to time. There are more of us here, aren't there, colleague Jirka Blá? Sometimes they really just pay to keep quiet, to keep quiet, honey. Then I just really wanted to react briefly, before I comment on parenting, to the constant comparison of 2018, 2019, 2007, 2008 or 2009. I think it is difficult, but I would not wish it to this country either, I would not wish it here to the Minister of Finance, but really compare it in terms of the revenues of the state budgets of municipal or regional times, when, and now I am speaking primarily to Mr Roman Sklenák through Mr President, Lehman Brothers fell, the time when the Czech Republic experienced huge floods and when the falls at all levels were huge, and asking why some doses were increasing or not increasing at that time, it seems legitimate to me, I understand that you can ask this question, Mr colleague, but it just seems incredible to me because the comparison is almost impossible. That's just short for what's been going on here in the debate. Now, let me speak very briefly to my parents, because I don't want to delay the debate. After all, the one who dragged it out and for whom families are waiting for a senior parent, despite the public promises of the Prime Minister and the government, is the government coalition of the ANO movement and social democracy. We really didn't hold things up here in the Chamber of Deputies. Because of the squabbling and disagreements in the government, not only did families and mothers not get higher parenting so far, but the government has drawn a line over the budget to many families because some of them have already stopped counting on the addition, it is simply an obvious fact, and they have chosen a faster option of taking parental leave. And that, according to the proposed government model, will no longer allow them to draw the added money, which is also a fact. I remind you that the government has an increase in parental status in its programming statement, and that it has had the support of the opposition, including civil democrats, from the outset in this matter. And I repeat, I am all the more sorry that the issue of parental support with such massive support from our side did not reach the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies much earlier. So I can only repeat the questions that I raised here during the vote on distrust of the government. Why didn't you approve of raising your parents long ago? Why didn't you approve him if you had the support of the opposition? And the answer is, because you couldn't even make a deal between yourselves. In summary, it has already fallen from the mouth of Mrs Pekarová, first of all you suggested raising your parents from 220 thousand. 260 thousand. and could touch it at least all parents of children under four years of age, even those who already within a shorter parental original amount of 220 thousand. We're out. Then you came up with a proposal to raise your parents to 300 grand. koruna - again for everyone. And even this model was prepared to support the Civil Democratic Party. And finally, and that's the resulting option that we're discussing here today, you've come up with the option of when the sum of 300 thousand. stays, but moms - or parents who went to work early will get nothing. It's the ones mentioned around 20 thousand. those who enjoy parental allowance. They went to work mainly because the family needs money. That's obvious. They might also want to stay home with the children a year longer, but they didn't decide this way, or maybe they just wanted to take part-time, but they couldn't wait for the government to decide whether or not they were gonna keep their promise from the programming statement. And apparently these moms are missing out on the bill. [[17.30 hours]] I believe that the Social Policy Committee will still have the opportunity to open this question, and we may be able to propose a model in which these parents will also be able to draw up the increased amount, that it will reopen the possibility of returning to the basically one of the options you negotiated on the coalition, and that the space will still be found. At this point, I can call on the intention of the Civic Democratic Party MEP to present this amendment ourselves. In conclusion, I would like to add a little bit more. Increased parenting will undoubtedly help families with children, but it is not the only one or a major measure that will ensure better support for families with children in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, support for families with children is often limited to families from socially problematic conditions and families at risk. However, I think that it should aim much more closely at functional families with economically active parents, it must be much wider, more thoughtful and systemical, because it is in families with children that our future and, among other things, the key to dealing with the pension system crisis, which we have been discussing so much today. For example, I am sorry for the fierceness with which officials and relevant ministers are resisting the support of families with more children, for example, from European funds, as discussed in the Committee on Social Policy, or how the government overlooks the proposals on the parliamentary initiative. I name only one signed MEP across the political spectrum for all of them, a proposal for a change that would allow parents of more children to finish parenting on an older child even if another younger child is born into the family. I'm sure, Madam Secretary through Mr President, you know that the proposal has been here for more than half a year and has not been discussed at first reading, even though it would greatly help parents who have the courage to raise more children in a row. In conclusion, I'll end up positive. Today, the government will receive general support from the opposition to increase parental support, and I therefore believe that the government will also support the discussion of proposals to support the families that have been submitted by Members and on which a consensus can be found across the entire Chamber of Deputies. Above all, I believe that the government will finally begin to see families with children and their support as a priority and the best investment in the future. Finally, I would like to say that although I have interesting speeches, I even like to listen to myself sometimes, but I have seen that my name is twice on the drugstore, which I think is a systemic error, and I think one performance is enough. [[Names are on the board: Hythova, Bauer, Golasowski, Aulická Jírovcová.]] So I would like to ask Mr President if he could cross me off the list, because I will no longer be on the list. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u45	Thank you. Have a nice evening. I would first like to make a point that there is no need to address the ministers through me, especially if they are not Members at the same time. Vice-President Hanzel apologizes to us today from 5:30 p.m. to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. And the secretary asked for an exit with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u46	Thank you. I have already announced this, I will comment on individual complaints about the system setting of support for families at the end of this debate. However, in that factual remark, I will now allow myself to make one more point about how previous right-wing governments did not raise or raise pensions. I think the excuse for the crisis should stop now, because if we look at our economy, it's driven either by export or domestic consumption. I agree that during the economic crisis that began in 2008, the international situation did not allow or led us into a crisis because of the export situation. However, it was domestic consumption that was one way to get out of this very difficult economic situation more quickly. And what the right-wing governments did just crossed out even worse, and the result was that we were getting out of the crisis two years longer than the rest of Europe. So I'm defending Mr. Sklenák because he's right about this. If previous governments had decided to raise pensions, our economy could have been out of the crisis faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u47	Thank you. Mr Krejza, Mr Krejza, has now signed up with a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u48	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. If our or right-wing governments were to raise pensions, we would not be blamed for 200 billion deficits here, but maybe 350. So I don't know if this is the right way to go, even though there are some things that can be agreed to motivate the economy to make state investments at the moment it stagnates, that's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u49	Thank you. Now, Mr Munzar, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u50	Thank you. A brief response to the Minister. While you have now brought it to perfection - at a time of economic growth, you are indebting state finances and public budgets, and you are suffocating private consumption by raising taxes, as you demonstrated today at the previous point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u51	Thank you. Now, therefore, to the general debate, Mrs Hyťhová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u52	Hello, esteemed colleagues. I would also like to comment on an increase in parental contribution for our SPD club. The SPD, of course, supports an increase in parental contribution. And we're just saying that we support this increase for the parents of all the children that are going to be at 1. 1. 2020 respectively. on the date of entry into force of the present amendment at the age of four years and below. In this sense, we reject selection and the condition of receiving parental allowance and de facto encouraging it to extend its purpose, which is what the proposal offers practically all interested parents. And in this sense and in this respect, we will also put forward an appropriate amendment, because the submitted government proposal is both unsystemic, but also largely antisocial and very unfair, denying the old legal principle of so-called legitimate expectations that the government parties have given citizens the original promise to increase this contribution to all children within four years, that is to say, even to those born before 1. 1. 2020. No exceptions. In the eyes of parents and young people, it was really a public promise, as evidenced by not only the number of emails in our e-mail mailboxes, which are constantly coming to us in this matter, but also a promise that should have motivated us to increase the birth rate immediately from the moment of his pronouncement, not from 1. 1. 2020. The original plan YES and ČSSD regarding the increase in parental contribution talked about CZK 40,000 in July 2019. It was then followed by a second wave with an increase of another 40,000 crowns. Subsequently, the Ministry of Finance and Labour and Social Affairs agreed that the contribution would increase by CZK 80,000 to CZK 300,000 from January 2020, with an increase of CZK 450,000 for parents of twins and multiples. According to the SPD, therefore, parents who will be entitled to it in January 2020 and those who have already chosen it, regardless of whether they have exhausted parental leave, should reach an increased parental allowance, but have a 4-year-old or younger child on the date of entry into force of this amendment. An increase in parental allowance for all parents with four-year-olds and younger children would cost the state budget about CZK 11.2 billion, while the so-called cheaper offered option will cost CZK 8.6 billion. The Treasury thus saves about 2.6 billion. CZK, which is not a very dramatic amount from the point of view of the total budget, is clearly a pro-family and pro-population measure that will be a financial contribution to the future and a contribution to our future. Moreover, the opposite would be gambling with the confidence of young families and young people. [[17.40 hours]] The option of increasing parental allowance for all parents with four-year-olds and younger children is fair and fair, even because parents who have already selected the contribution and started working earlier have spent time with their family for a job from which they take away a small part of their state's income and also contribute to the growth of our economy. Then why should this group pay for its diligence, activity, and also its responsibility? Another thing that needs to be introduced for parental contribution is, of course, the inclusion of the automatic validation mechanism of parental contribution in the relevant law, which our amendment also envisages. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u53	I thank Mrs Hyťhová and Mrs Golasowská, please. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice evening, co-workers, co-workers. Allow me to also comment on the draft bill to be prepared, to increase the parental contribution, for the KDU-ČSL club. Of course, we will support this proposal because any increase in parental allowance for parents who care and raise young children is certainly positive and I myself, as the mother of six children who are already adults and who I actually raised with my husband, know what it takes to work and everything, so I appreciate all the more the proposal that goes up. However, I must say that unfortunately the proposal, as approved by the government, is discriminatory for some 70,000 families, which exclude entitlement to this contribution. They are families who have already exhausted their parental contribution, whether because they have become involved in the labour market and have received a short-term contribution. I would also like to refer here, for example, to Act No. 20/2017 Coll., on State Social Support, when the contribution was raised to all parents of multiples within four years, not only actively drawing. I think it could be like this in this case. It must also be taken into account that the legal...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u55	Madam, I understand you, and I would ask my colleagues in the Chamber to be more calm, or maybe transfer your actions to the lobby so that we can hear each other. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u56	Thank you. It should also be taken into account that those parents who received parental benefits in an accelerated regime often went to work to pay taxes and insurance to the state. I would also like to mention the explanatory report of the proposed law, where I see certain things as a contradiction. For example, it says that it is necessary to appreciate the care of young children, which is true, but this bill excludes some parents from this award. Another thing is that it is necessary to respond flexibly to the possibility of aligning family and working life, even in the field of child support for parents who are caring for young children, while the proposed law actually punishes those parents who have exhausted their contribution earlier and have integrated themselves into the labour market. Furthermore, the proposed law has a positive social impact on the recipient of the parental contribution, as the total amount of the benefit will be increased. That is true, but the positive effects are only for some parents, for those who receive parental contributions. That is why we will certainly put forward an amendment at second reading where we will propose that an increase in parental allowance of 80,000 should also apply to those parents who have already exhausted the contribution, but their child is still in the allowance scheme, which means that by 1 January 2020 he will be under four years of age. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u57	Thank you, too, and please, to Mrs Aulická, for the debate. Mrs Aulická. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this amendment. I must say that KSČM has tried to increase the parental contribution for the previous term. It is not really the first time that the effort from our club is, and so I am very glad that if it did not go by a few votes in the last parliamentary term, I think that today across the political spectrum this amendment will be supported at first reading, i.e. to increase by 80,000 crowns for families with children from 1. 1. 2020. I would like to stress, however, at the beginning, that we support the option presented in this amendment, for these reasons, because I perceive the debate and perhaps I would say that sometimes media-driven arguments. We all need to realise that parental allowance is a substitute for a loss of wages at a time when you take care of a child at home. This means that for us arguments of the type: I will end parental leave, I want to be equally entitled when I have a child under the age of four, to complete financing, or to increase it - I really think we are talking about two different things that we need to distinguish. And if we want to encourage parents to leave their jobs voluntarily because they want to raise and want to have children, yes, it is true, we have to make sure that they have an adequate amount at the time they take care of their child, and also the flexibility of the distribution of the four years, but also the possibilities of working here at the time when the parent is on parental leave is, that is, the possibility of further earnings, so I really think that we will not, or should not create a one-time social benefit in the form of CZK 80,000 for parents who from 1. In 2020, they will no longer have parental leave, so they will have it closed because parents themselves can choose length, and even after three months on parental leave, they can rethink the length and use of their parental leave. That means that flexibility is very high at the moment. And I really think it's important to say this because I feel that some political parties are just big populism. I would like to say that families do not give birth to children to a large extent because they see some support from the state. There's a very fragmented national policy here. The complexity is really necessary and it is necessary to rethink the overall concept of family care by the state. And I think it's clear exactly that the inaction of the previous governments -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u59	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask colleagues who come into the hall and sit among us to do so in peace or to leave their actions outside. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u60	Thank you. - That the inaction of previous governments to address this situation is now manifesting itself in the last two parliamentary periods. Yes, a lack of care for children from two years of age, a lack of, of course, pre-school facilities within large agglomerations, but there are also other support for families, but also working families in particular, because I feel that even in the policy that is now manifesting itself, it is really forgotten to support families of workers, and I think that we should be aware of that and really the complexity of starting to defend and address overall. I would also like to say that the liquidation, the mass liquidation of the nursery in the 1990s, and the setting of the four years, or up to four years of parental leave, have also contributed to this situation, because the motivation was actually taken to the fact that parents and children would be at home, and so the nursery would not be needed. Now we see that this is a really big mistake. Of course, the whole society has changed significantly, moving in a different direction. And that's why, of course, the effects that unfortunately haven't been addressed in over 20 years are catching up with us now. [[17.50 hours]] A really big boom historically, we could probably say that they were Husákův's children for the last time. I think we all have to admit it here. Now the curve is moving more or less to the same degree. I think that about ten or twelve years ago, 15 years ago, we were dealing with a significant increase and neediness or a significant other boom, but since then the curve hasn't been falling or growing, it really moves in the same numbers. I must say that I am very glad that it has come to an end, I do not want to say squabbling, but it really was not a pleasant thing on the part of the ČSSD, but also YES to agree at all what increase, since when and in particular in what variant it will be. I am very glad that they went the golden path that KSČM has been promoting from the start, that is, the claim from 1. 1. 2020 plus open parental leave. I really think that we should also deal with other follow-up issues, such as quality pre-school education or other care, whether it is in the form of nursery groups, children's groups. There we would see significant adjustments, for example, to ensure that the care is within four years of age, so that children visit quality pre-school education systems. And I think, however, that even the possibility of flexibility for parents, that means some shorter periods, would be important. And we can clearly see that the need to secure some quality housing is one of those, and, of course, some certainty about parents' work opportunities. These are the basic things that lead to two people choosing to have children and, of course, more children, which the state needs. Preferably two and a half, as calculated. And I hope it's usually three. But we want to support it, and we really want to say that this pro-family policy really should be addressed comprehensively in the future. But for that increase of 80,000, for which the KSČM has been calling for at least two parliamentary periods, we are happy, but we consider it only as the beginning of support for the pro-family policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u61	Thank you, too. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Klaus, then with the right of priority, Minister Maláčová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u62	Hello. We will support an increase in parental contribution. I would just like to draw attention to one aspect, so that the support of the state and the support of companies do not mix when it is a commentary procedure in the second reading. It happened to me how many times in school that the teacher had the first child, she got paid leave, she left for parents' four or three years old, while she moved out of Prague. Then she had a second child, and again we had 40 days as if we had a vacation for teachers, she demanded to pay again, and it was actually from us from the budget, where the employer didn't count on it at all. And the third child, as well. So if we support the families, let them be supported by the state, but let's not transfer it partly to the employers, this godly activity, so that moms can be with the children for a long time. There's a little discrepancy and poorer companies, which may have been a school, and then when we had two or three of these ladies, it wasn't quite enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u63	Thank you. And now, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u64	Thank you. I would now like to comment on the individual comments, comments that have been made during this debate, as I have promised. As for the comment on a system-wide solution. So I basically, and I said it, I mentioned it in the introductory words that the purpose of this proposal was to help quickly and raise the parents by 80,000 to 300,000 crowns, so that after 12 years the families caring for the smallest children would help. It is true that this originally rapid operation has been considerably extended to us on the basis of discussions in the coalition. In the meantime, a month ago, at the Council of Ministers of the EU, at the European Parliament, we approved the directive, the so-called work-life balance directive, which should just give us a clear assignment on how to change family support systemically in particular. This means that by the time we discuss this proposal for a rapid increase, we already know the clear outlines of the work-life balance directive, which will have to be transposed into the Czech environment by the next three years. However, regardless of the directive, I believe, and I have also stated in the introductory words that support for kindergartens and nursery facilities and support for part-time work is a prerequisite for any systemic changes. These are the designs I have prepared. Because there's been a lot of thinking going on here, and I don't identify with them, shortening parental allowance, or generally parental leave. I think it was Mrs Pekarová Adamová, who said that in the West, support for families is limited to a maximum of a year. I don't agree. But even if we were mentally replaying this possibility, what would happen if we cut the parent to a year? Where would mothers put the kids? It is, of course, nonsense, because we do not have adequate pre-school care. This means, any assumption of systemic, fundamental systemic changes is the availability of nursery and kindergartens and part-times. Then we can proceed to a system solution. I think the timetable is clearly set by the work-life balance directive. And that's where they're gonna have to deal with these things, automatic valorization, the bottom line for the three-year variants, the motivation to get back to work. Because our parental and maternal system will have to undergo a systemic change if we have to meet European requirements. Because individual interventions into today's system, as they were announced, and I don't know the specific design, it always depends on the details, so they would actually mean the breakdown of the whole structure, the whole dose and other more complex calculation of the whole system. I would still like to respond to Mrs Pekarová Adamová. It is not true that it is possible to work in part when collecting parenting. Women or men, mothers or fathers can work fully when receiving a parental allowance as opposed to cash benefits in maternity. So I'm setting the record straight. If you're a parent, you can work all you want. And once again, I stress that shortening the parenting, I disagree with that, for a year and so on. And I think that would be a very bad move. Because where would mothers put their children? So it's a fundamental assumption of any consideration. By the time we get to point B, we should get to point A. There have also been questions about my personal opinion on the reconciliation of work and family. I went back to work quite early. But I don't think it's...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u65	I understand, Madam Secretary, the O.R. is filled, which I'm sure we're pleased with. However, I would ask my colleagues to be calm enough to continue to act here. So both in the right side of the hall and in the left side of the hall, I ask for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u66	I don't think getting back to work is a model for everyone. I think that family policy is crucial, and I think that is confirmed by all international studies, freedom of choice. Basically, if everyone can set up their life strategy, and I don't think there's a more private thing to do than set out how I'm gonna take care of my offspring. If the freedom of choice is really high, it leads to a higher birth rate, but also to higher family satisfaction. And you know that our family's decay rate is really high. Not only is every other child born outside of marriage, but those who get married get divorced every other marriage, most often three to five years later. This means that I think that the freedom of choice and the setting of a high degree of flexibility, reconciliation of work and family is extremely crucial. So much for all the notes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u67	Thank you. There is a factual point to Mrs Pekarová, so please. Your two minutes, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u68	Thank you. Madam Secretary, I just want to correct what you have repeatedly said here, because you obviously didn't listen to my speech carefully, or deliberately twist what I said about shortening the maximum length. I've never, and I repeat that, and feel free to look it up in the tape screen, she didn't say she should shorten her parenting to a year. I told you it was only a year abroad. But as an example. And I said that I think that we should start a debate about whether the four-year maximum length is really necessary and if we shouldn't have to shorten it by a year. If you have a problem understanding the text and which preposition means what it means, then go back to primary school.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u69	So I'm asking you not to be too personal. And the secretary will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u70	I don't think there's a need to increase the aggression of the tone. But if I may ask for attention, even if we cut the parenting by a year, we still have a hunch that 40,000 children who don't get a job in kindergarten, although they're three years old. So that wouldn't solve the problem. So if we want to talk about any matter of shortening parenting, and I do not agree with that, then the prerequisite for these discussions is the establishment of sufficient pre-school care capacities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u71	Thank you, too. Mrs Pekarová will respond with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u72	I'm not going to get too mad, so in this case, I really feel affected by the fact that my words are twisting around here. And again, I will respond in the sense that I also said exactly what you said, Madam Secretary. This means that we completely agree that this step must be accompanied by the need for capacity to be increased and that these children will have a place guaranteed both in kindergarten or in other types of care. That's what I said. You can look it up. And it's definitely something in this case that we agree on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u73	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Minister what the Ministers for Social Democracy have done, the Education Ministers for increasing capacity in pre-school facilities, so that municipalities are motivated to do so, such as. the city part of Prague 2 to hold the manger? Because the nursery is, by the way, under our social services centre, under social services facilities, which fall under the gesture of the Minister and which unfortunately also due to the inability of the Minister is struggling with a lack of funds. Still, we're holding a nursery. Yet we hold and have made the maximum number of places in kindergarten. We even set up so-called primary school buildings. preparations for children to learn how to go to that big school where they set up a ward that was a kindergarten. That's all we do as mayors. And unfortunately, ministers for social democracy, who have had education for quite a long time, have done nothing to help us in our efforts as mayors. So if you're saying what you need to do here, then sweep your own doorstep!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u75	Thank you for keeping time. And now there are two factual points. First, Mr Veselý, then Mr Čižinský. Then the Minister would react again. So please, Mr. Veselý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna try to calm down the discussion a little bit. The principle or the reason why we're here now is to raise our parents. We agree on that. Please, let's not fight. Just in general...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u77	Ambassador, please, on the microphone. And please be more calm in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u78	I'll just say in general that, of course, there are cities and municipalities that set up a nursery. Even Sand has a manger. And we're not expecting anything from the state. I take it that municipalities take care of kindergarten, nursery and elementary schools, regions take care of secondary schools, become care of universities. Please don't put everything on the stand. Let's not put everything on the stand. In our country it was so that when there were few places in kindergartens, the region wrote a subsidy programme, the South Bohemia Region wrote a subsidy programme and it could be done. But let's talk about this particular proposal. Please, let's not shake our emotions. Let's talk about the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u79	Thank you and thank you for keeping time. Now, please, Mr Čižinský, then Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u80	Thank you for the floor. I have one constructive proposal on pre-school education. The State has introduced the last year of kindergarten free of charge, but this is reflected by the fact that municipalities have, when it all adds up, several hundred million deficits caused by this. So I would like to call on the government to deal with this, because those municipalities don't deserve to pay for being the free last year of kindergarten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u81	There. I apologize for my previous statement. Now, then, Minister Maláčová, with a technical remark, then Mrs Kovářová. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u82	Thank you. I was asked what she did to the government for sufficient preschool care capacity, I assume for children under three years of age. So I think my predecessor, Secretary Marksová, has introduced the Children's Act... or passed the Children's Group Act. I think you know that the nursery doesn't exist legally. The Crib Act was repealed in 2012. And if Mrs Černochová talks about the fact that the village or part of it operates a nursery, it is probably a pre-school care facility under the trade law regime or a children's group. In addition to the enforcement of the Children's Group Act, which is supposed to be a substitute for the cancelled nursery, only the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has invested six years in these children's groups from European funds - that is to be borne in mind - eight billion crowns. This means eight billion crowns invested in construction and operation. This means, in particular, the salaries of carers. Otherwise, I know that European funds are also invested under the IROP billions programme to build nursery schools. So I think the state support is very high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u83	Thank you. And now, therefore, Mrs Kovářová, then Mrs Černochová, with factual remarks. I'm asking for peace in the hall again. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree that raising the parental allowance is the right step, and that is why it is similar to pensions. The cost of living is rising. This means that parents deserve such a contribution. On the other hand, I must say that, hand in hand, parent care must really go with an increase in parental support. A lot of things have been done. About children's groups - there I think that's a good thing too. On the other hand, on the other hand, we still have to bear in mind that the lack of places in kindergarten is essential. Within billions, projects are being prepared. We tabled an amendment to raise the grant title to kindergarten schools. Unfortunately, both the social democracy and the ANO movement did not agree with this proposal. And if we speak, often enough in this context, with an increase in parental allowance, it is said whether this will help increase the birth rate. All facts and research indicate that this may not be the case, but in European countries, where they guarantee places in kindergarten schools, virtually. In preschool facilities, that's where the birth rate definitely grew. So I think that with a friendly tone, I ask all Members, I ask the ministries to support the funding of kindergarten schools, virtually. pre-school facilities, even if it is within the competence of municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u85	Thank you, ma'am. I'm going to ask you again to remain calm in the hall and please Mrs. Mrs. Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Sadly, the Minister and her ministry are located in the district of Prague 2 and do not know that the same district has a nursery set up by the founder of the Prague 2 district. That this law makes it possible. We even have two detached workplaces. One in London and one in Fisherman. We accept children from six months of age, stay is possible up to three years. Let me tell you, Madam Secretary, what the government has done under the leadership of social democracy, specifically in the Ministry of Education. She ordered the admission of children in the senior year, as a colleague mentioned here - when was it, you know, at the expense of who? At the expense -- because they were paper kids, those kids didn't really get into that kindergarten. In the end, it was hard to change this place to solve the problem. Because the problem was when parents who really needed to get their kid into kindergarten couldn't get the baby into that kindergarten because the kindergarten had some capacity. We're the sightseeing reserves, so obviously we can't, we don't have the buildings inflatable. So that was one huge problem caused by the government, where the Ministry of Education had Social Democrats. I could talk about inclusion here for another two hours, but I don't want to delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u87	Thank you. Now, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková has made a point of fact. I would perhaps just ask that we try to stick to the subject at hand. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u88	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I'm just being serious. We've been talking about the so-called Husákův's children. From this time there was enough capacity in kindergarten. But in the period of right-wing governments, whether it was in cities or at central level, those preschool buildings were sold out and privatized differently. Of course, we in Zlín had 60 percent capacity. We also had to close the preschools to make the city even tighter. But we didn't let them out of town. We didn't let them off the property of Zlina. They stayed at the children's disposal. Where they didn't do it, of course they're dealing with it. The fact that the capacity recovery money was further put there has already been said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u89	I thank you, and at this point I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word from the plaintiff. [[No.]] Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? [[I do.]] Does he? So please, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u90	I don't want to keep this up, but I'd like to thank everyone who's in this messed-up discussion -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u91	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u92	I would like to thank all those who have applied to this obscene discussion. Even men, except for some exception I've already commented on. I would just like to point out to your colleague, Mrs Richterová, that she said here that children who go prematurely or small, to preschool facilities are stressed that it can be seen from saliva. Then I don't know if you're promoting children's groups where children go from one to three years of age, because you think they should be stressed. I am very excited about the expert discussion in the committees. I think social will be designed as a guarantee, so I'm looking forward to it. And as I was writing down, who here has already announced that he will be submitting amendments, there will probably be a lot of them, and the final voting procedure will certainly be interesting. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u93	Thank you, too. Those were the final words. I have not noted any proposals for a return or rejection, so we will now consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else have a guarantee committee proposal? If that is not the case, I would begin the vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who for the commandments. Who opposes the commandment of this committee? Thank you. In the vote number 72, 183 Members and Members are registered, for 170, against no one. I note that, therefore, we have ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Anybody suggest another committee? [[This is Mrs Pastuch.]] Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u94	I propose that we discuss the Committee on Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-023-008.u95	Thank you. Does anyone else have any other proposal for the commandment to the other authorities? If that's not the case, I think we've all heard the proposal. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's for the commission's commandments. Who's against it? In the vote number 73, 183 Members and Members are enrolled, for 151, against 1. I note that, therefore, we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Commission on Social Policy. And if there's nothing else, I don't think there's anything else, then I'm done discussing this press. I thank the appellant and thank the rapporteur and move forward. Opening point
