ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u1	157. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 27th meeting, a total of nine responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with, and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the House meeting. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jakub Michálek's intervention on the opaque management of CEZ and, in particular, its investments in Bulgaria. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 342. The discussion of this reply was suspended on Thursday 31 January 2019 due to the expiry of the time to discuss the reply to the written interpelation. I ask if anyone else wants to speak on this point in the debate. [[Messenger. Michalek is speaking briefly outside the microphone with the President.]] I ask if anyone else wants to speak in the debate on this point, that is, to the House press 342, which is a disagreement with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's reply to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpelation on the issue of the opaque management of CEZ, especially its investments in Bulgaria. Mr. Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, for the last time we have not been able to negotiate this matter within the framework of these written interventions. Today, the Prime Minister is duly excused on account of his foreign travel, so it is impossible to continue discussing the interpelation. I suggest we interrupt her in the presence of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u3	Okay, thank you. This is a procedural proposal with which to deal with the vote. According to the present, there are enough Members to vote. So I think it's understandable what we're voting on. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the interruption. Who's against interruption? Thank you. In the vote number 117, 75 Members and Members are registered, for 67, against no one. The motion was accepted. We are therefore interrupting the negotiations and moving on. Another intervention is the House Press No. 361. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš replied to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interpellation on planned investments for 2019 and the 10-year investment plan. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 361. The discussion of this response has been suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who is not present, so I will not open the debate and postpone this interpelation. Another intervention is the House press 363. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interview on the management of the Office of the President of the Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 363. The discussion of the response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who is not present, so again I am interrupting this interpelation and moving forward. Another intervention is the House press 371. Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová replied to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interview on the procedure of the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic in determining the information of the newlywed couple about the wedding reception. The information, along with the reply and other response prepared by Finance Minister Schillerová on the basis of a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies expressing opposition to the original response to the interpelation, is presented as the House press 371. The discussion of this response has been interrupted in the presence of Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, who is present. So I am opening the debate and, please, the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Secretary, thank you for coming to my interview. Appreciate it. I understand that's not entirely pleasant. But why are we even talking about this? It's just, the sněmovna of Honor, honourable colleagues, let me remind you of what's going on. The point is that the Financial Administration has called on about 95 newlywed couples under the threat of a fine to give the Financial Administration details of their wedding reception, where they had a reception, information about the number of wedding guests, simply personal questions, under the threat of a fine mandatory. The financial administration called them as obliged persons, even those newlywed couples who had a wedding reception at home. I asked the Minister once before, the House rejected the Minister's first reply. If I got the second "it was excess" answer, it wouldn't happen again, so we wouldn't really have anything to talk about today. But the stubbornness of the answer, the uncritical approach to what the Financial Administration is doing, the de facto defense of the indefensible, that's why we're talking about it again today. I was the one who said that the nature of state power was its expansion. The task of democratic policy is to hinder this disengagement. For the last few years, we have witnessed in our country the fact that the Financial Administration has been acting out of control, which it interprets in a very extensive way and to the detriment of our citizens. Examples: hedging orders that destroy companies, gallows deadlines for expressing entrepreneurs in tax proceedings and precisely calls to newlyweds are such a shining example. All of this because of the non-critical approach of the administration of the Ministry of Finance, often by agreeing noding. Instead of protecting citizens, their rights from state power, they come to the word of a tendency to assert state power at the expense of citizens. But the end doesn't justify the means. The method of cutting down forests, flying splinters, does not apply a democratic regime to its citizens. And I'm not going to accept that, and the situation where the IRS unbearably challenged the newlyweds, even those who had a feast at home, to tell where they had a feast, how many guests were in it, under the threat of a fine, I find it disgusting. The Financial Administration should also take appropriate action. The show of arrogance of power also leads to a sense of infallibility. And on the example of the newlyweds, we see the effort to defend the indefensible. At all costs, not admitting a mistake, we see it all live. I have two reservations about your new answer. One is formal, the other is factual. I'll start with the formal one. You answered me, Madam Secretary, that you couldn't finish your answer. You know very well that I have suggested that you interrupt the first time you were here, and it was your Members who did not allow it. I find it strange that you're complaining about your answer to me and not to them. But the formal reservation is that the interpellation was not pending. You shouldn't have continued your answers the same way. Interpelation has been negotiated. The House disagreed with your answer. And I was commenting on the motion to disagree: I suggest that we at least signal the Financial Administration with this dissenting resolution that this has already been over the line. Ambition to draw up a new answer with new arguments with regard to discussions in the House was somehow successfully hidden. You just continued the rejected answer. And this concerns, ladies and gentlemen, all of us in this hall, because what is the seriousness of the resolution of our House of Honor? But that's just a formal reservation. Far more important and important is the reservation of substance. You have not once answered one basic question about the degree of mandatory wedding guests in accordance with § 57 para. Article 4 (1) (a) d), to which the call refers, and what do they have to do with tax management intimate private questions about how many wedding guests they had at the wedding. In your reply, Madam Secretary, you refer generally to third parties whom the Financial Administration - that is the interpretation of your reply - learns, by the way, some data in tax proceedings with taxpayers. But here we are on another case. Here the Financial Administration deliberately challenged those third parties under the threat of a fine because it considers them mandatory. Weddings have been harassed, though they do not bear the burden of proof, so they do not reckon in advance that they should communicate intimate information about themselves. That's why the comparison in your answer limps on both legs. At the same time, we all have the right to information self-determination and privacy protection even from state power. How, then, is it possible to challenge wedding guests with personal questions under the threat of a fine? Perhaps it is possible in a world other than my own world, because in some other world, every naughty suspect may be and should be sufficiently preventively controlled and the state should be all-powerful, that is, only if the file is in their right hands. I'm saying it's not my world. However, not every third party under Section 22 of the Tax Code is also a mandatory person under Section 57 of the Tax Code, to which the call and you refer in your reply. In Section 57, there are persons who obtain other information necessary for tax administration. According to a recognized commentary - Baxa and the Association of Authors, you are co-author, Madam Secretary - such persons are considered, quote, "persons registering data on accommodated persons, registering technical examination of cars etc.". So these persons are persons for whom the acquisition of the necessary data is part of their activity and the obligation to obtain these data and the obligation to register them is provided for by law. And they really aren't wedding guys. The professional public, which, according to your reply, I do not have to take into account, agrees that any third party may not be required. And we have examples of a valid caselaw. I'm not gonna quote them here, but I could. And here's a question for you that I'd like to hear the answer to. As a lawyer, not only as Secretary of Finance, you will explain to me from what legal title or construction in tax proceedings to a particular restaurant, the particular facility is the mandatory person of the newlywed couple who had a feast at home. Imagine, colleagues, our situation. It's one of us's birthdays, we're gonna celebrate with him here, and then the colleague or colleague gets a call from the IRS under a fine threat to tell him where he had the party, how many guests he had on her, just because the Financial Administration is saving some restaurant up on Nerudova Street. Does that seem normal to you? But that's exactly what happened. These were calls to the newlyweds. And since it was a carpet raid on a newlywed in one territory only in terms of having a wedding ceremony near the facility at a certain time - you asked me not to call it a carpet raid - so I ask you, "Is that appropriate?" In these answers, the issue is very subtlely covered by the fact that the Financial Administration has to do a search activity and suspected tax cuts on one particular restaurant. But is it really appropriate, and are all third parties really mandatory because they had a wedding at some point near a facility? That is a fundamental question I would like to hear your answer to, Madam Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u5	Thank you, too. At this point, I have a couple of note cards. We are apologized to Mrs Brzobohatá from 9 to 11 a.m. and from 13 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský apologizes to us between 9 and 11 a.m. for reasons of work, Mrs Ožanová apologises to us between 14.30 and 18.00 for reasons of work and Mr Výborný between 9.00 and 10.30 for reasons of work. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, we have been meeting here for several times on the issue of the financial office's progress in finding out about the wedding reception. I sent the current written reply to your interview, Mr Member, following the rejection of the previous reply by the Chamber of Deputies on 3 January 2019. So everyone, I suppose, who was interested could have met her. So I'm going to try to sum up my answer in a nutshell. About your procedural complaint. The disapproval of the Chamber of Deputies was given for procedural reasons. I did not see the Chamber of Deputies expressing the reasons for the matter, and I perceived the shift as being given, above all, by the fact that the watch was carried out, which I called on the then CEO Martin Janeček to do. So in general, just for your information. Of course, let me sum up the argument in general. Then I'll try to model an example for you, but of course it won't be based on the knowledge of a specific file, and then I'll tell you how the surveillance went and what I called the Financial Administration for. Just for starters, I'll repeat it again, I know I've said it on this soil several times. As of 1 January 2013, the competence law on Financial Administration was changed very significantly, thus establishing the basis for the strict depoliticisation of the Financial Administration. That means she was no longer run by the Department of Finance, as was normal until then, but she began to be run by the General Financial Directorate, which actually has one competence to decide on methodology and direction, for example, in principle in control activity. This jurisdictional law on Financial Administration defines exactly the powers of the Minister of Finance, and I will never exceed one millimeter. It clearly states the competence of the Minister of Finance. And if you look at it, you'll find that it has very limited competence with the Financial Administration, and that's a good thing, because that's why the Financial Administration's authorities have gotten rid of the political influence that was normal until then. This means that the Minister of Finance does not determine where to go for checks, does not specify any control actions. That's what used to happen. Because actually the Financial Administration, and I remember that time, was running the Department of Finance. So, for example, the Minister of Finance decides on first-degree remedies if they have been exhausted - I think extraordinary remedies - exhausted all previous levels. Those cases are pieces within a year, and they're absolutely extraordinary situations. So these competencies are very, very limited. That's for starters. And the essential thing. Financial administration has very strict tax confidentiality, and that's a good thing. I haven't been able to remember a single case in years, and I've also said that a number of times here, when it would be proven that this silence would be broken. It means it protects tax secrets. And it protects him because he gets a large amount of very sensitive information about a tax entity. And I'm going to model you in general. He's also protecting that confidentiality from the Treasury Secretary. So I can't take a file out of the Financial Administration - even if I still understand it - and study it and say what was right or wrong, because it just doesn't allow me to do it. I will only get to the file if, under the law of jurisdiction, I make decisions about an extraordinary appeal, and that is not the case in this case. So much for an introduction. I couldn't take the file and study it. And I would never do that. And now in general. The tax office, as tax administrator, has the task of law to determine, that is simply due to its competence as to whether tax administration obligations are fulfilled. He cannot resign from controlling a sector simply because he is engaged in activities where the public perceives it more sensitively. So they just have to do exactly the same to everyone. Of course, one of the fundamental principles enshrined in the tax system is the principle of equality, which means that the law applies to all, but also the principle of legality and other important principles that must be respected. It is not appropriate to seek sensation in the fact that it receives or that it could generally obtain information in relation to specific tax administration and could touch wedding receptions. In principle, tax management often assumes the acquisition of relatively comprehensive information not only on the economic activities of tax entities but also on a number of very sensitive private matters, including third parties. That's why there's such a strict confidentiality obligation. Let me give you an example that has nothing to do with the interpelling of the Member. For example, data relating to the application of non-taxable amounts and discounts will be verified. For income taxes, taxpayers apply various discounts in tax returns related to the number of children, with the fact that they have a partner, a wife, a husband. Remember, for example, the data associated with application - even if the tax administrator can learn about the health of a natural person, this has to do with the custody of a child, the divorce settlement, or the solution to questions related to the estate. That's an example. These are all the data that the tax administrator encounters and has the right to meet in order to verify that this or that discount, the deductible item, has been applied correctly. And, of course, that's why he's strictly bound by confidentiality so that this information never gets anywhere else and serves anything other than tax administration. So the information about the payment of the wedding reception, which, in terms of economic, business, represents information about a business transaction in the form of purchases of goods and services, is not, and believe me, they are not out of my old practice, in any way. This means that during its search and control activities, the tax administrator focuses mainly on cases where there are certain suspicions or suggestions of persons that there is a breach of tax legislation. And so it was, I believe, even in this case. So it primarily draws on its own resources, has its own information, own databases. Consider that today there is a huge database of information from control reports, from sales log. Based on this, he then identifies tax entities. Of course, the analytical activity by getting information, how the register of information from control reports and sales records actually swells, thus actually improving the tax administrator's analytical and search activity and identifying tax entities suspected of failing to comply with tax obligations. Even by comparing. By comparing with other tax entities that have similar activities in the region, and actually there are some fluctuations. On the basis of other information, of course. Therefore, it will address the next phase of the search activity, which means identifying subjects for control. Subsequently, the tax administrator has the right to communicate with other types of persons as part of his activities. That's what we call co-operation. It issues calls for synergies. And the law - you quoted Section 57 of the Tax Code here. They may be institutions of the type of bank, but they may also be specific persons, whether physical or legal, for which, of course, the communication, and I recognise that, means a certain administrative or other burden, time. Therefore, it should weigh very much whether it needs such communication, which means whether it could not obtain the information from other sources. [[9.30 hours]] Therefore, the communication must also follow another principle of tax law and tax administration, and that is the principle of proportionality. That means he can't get the information, and that's essential please, he can't demand the information without prior initial search activity as some imaginary, excuse me for the expression, carpet bump or for the general collection of information. This means that he cannot issue such a challenge, Mr. Ambassador, unless he has specific indications from the search activity I was talking about right now. Not just because he wanted to. I can't. The principle of the matter. There must be such a clue in the file and, of course, evidence, that is a summary of evidence and evidence that is evaluated in all its contexts. On this basis, there will be a possible assessment or measurement of the tax, and this, of course, enters the next procedural phase, the assessment by the appeal body, which will be included in the file. Judging by a court that gets into all the evidence that the tax file contains. This means that the set of persons addressed must always be reduced to the minimum necessary. This means, if, on the basis of the search activity and the evaluation of the result of the search activity, it is concluded that it is not possible otherwise, that the evidence which it has and needs is not sufficient, because it has to be built for sure, to build evidence which should lead to possible measurement. If I give an example, he has information from the search activity, he may have the information from the database that, for example, the entity differs from carrying out tax obligations, he may have it from other information from other tax proceedings, and if he evaluates them comprehensively, evaluates the fulfilment of tax obligations, initiates proceedings with a particular entity that does not lead to a result, because, for example, the entity does not communicate or does not have accounting, then it is all evidence that will lead to a third party being approached. And now what resources he has when he chooses a way to communicate with third parties. He has certain means which gives him tax rules and should very carefully choose which one to choose. So he has the opportunity to make use of the submission of explanations or follow-up testimony to him in general. I'm telling you how it is. And the second option, which you will recognize is that it is much more gentle, is the written call for information under the paragraph, you quoted it, 57 tax regulations. And the tax system, you also quoted it here, makes it possible to impose an appropriate fine. For example, if an invited person does not have the requested information, for example from some time lag, it is enough to simply react in this spirit or not remember it, it may also happen that he no longer remembers with some distance of time, as reality has occurred, and a simple response in this spirit will suffice. When you compare these funds and the fact that one of the basic principles of tax administration is not to burden a tax entity, to save its rights, then of course the most delicate means, if all the ways failed to find out this information in another way in that particular tax administration, I certainly consider the challenge to be the most sensitive. I would certainly very much protest that such a third party should, for example, be summoned to testify because of such an explanation. I would consider that a very inconsiderate remedy. By calling on the person addressed, he has time to think about his answer properly, he is not forced to lose his time by visiting the Office, and basically respects the required principle of proportionality, which contains the tax rules in his original provisions. Both procedures described, i.e. Whether it is a challenge or any other means, the tax administrator is legally obliged to instruct the person contacted about the consequences of any non-compliance. That's what the law says. I admit it's hard that it works hard, but the law says - it has to be taught. There is no possibility can be taught. She must be instructed. It is a kind of mandatory requirement for this challenge. And let's just have a little bit of a slide. The challenge, she is called a challenge, but has the character of a decision, it is a decision under the tax rules and must contain all the elements required by the tax rules to make it have the character of a decision, and one of these requirements is also an obligation to instruct. I understand and acknowledge it humanly, now not as a lawyer, as a person, a citizen, that it can, the language of this lesson affects most people coldly, distantly and more than one addressee can mention a fine, a border of its concern. However, it is a necessary requirement. It's a decision. Decisions must have certain requirements in order to teach them a lesson. This is how the tax rules are imposed. So as regards the examination of specific cases of the calls made by the Financial Authority in the context of the investigation of suspected non-compliance with the obligations to register sales in connection with wedding receptions, with the accommodation to which the intervention is directed, I was then, and you know that, Mr Member, urged the then CEO Martin Janeček to investigate the matter properly within his remit. I urged him to supervise the Office of Finance for the Olomouc Region, where, as I learned from the media, this interpelation of yours was headed. On October 10th, and now I am adding new information, October 10, 2018, the then Director General decided to carry out surveillance activities and, according to the press release of 18 December 2018, with which everyone had the opportunity to become acquainted, the supervisory authority, which was the General Financial Directorate, assessed all the complete file material, the relevant documents relating to the cases in question, and concluded that the Financial Office for the Olomouc Region had progressed in checking the records of sales within the limits of the law, and found no doubt about their legality and regularity in its procedures. What is important to me, and I read it from the press release and the information that I received to the same extent. For me, it is essential that in all the cases checked and investigated, it has been confirmed that the tax administrator's procedure has always been targeted. It was not a carpet raid, as some media said, but was always targeted at a particular business entity where the tax administrator had reasonable suspicion that there was a systematic breach of the obligation to record sales. The procedure, therefore, has always been supported by the results of the search activity, based on information publicly communicated to the media and published by the General Financial Directorate, among other things, as stated by the General Financial Directorate, I quote, by evaluating data from own resources, from publicly available information, and last but not least - and I underline this, Mr Member - from specific suggestions from the public, which has repeatedly alerted the Financial Administration of breach of obligations on specific entities. On the basis of the above, I have to confirm the conclusion that my previous responses have given me that this was not an excess that would go beyond the legal framework. Of course, I am a person who is never satisfied and always sees room for improvement, not only in relation to the challenges addressed to the wedding guests, but mainly in the formulation of specific challenges. They are austere, they are bureaucratic, they are cold, and I recognise that for third parties who do not move in this area, they can really work very, very hard. [[9.40 hours]] So I have called on the Financial Administration and then the Director General that I see there room for a kinder tone, especially with regard to third parties, that it should be formulated more clearly, and the instruction should be more understandable, and in particular it should be highlighted in the call in a clear way, in what procedural situation the third person is in, because she has the status of a third person such a person, and explain to her this procedural position, because of course it does not need to be known to her, given that they are people who really have no experience in tax management. And in this spirit, I have called on the Financial Administration to take a more sensitive approach and to revise the practice used in the formulation of the challenges, which was reflected in the above-mentioned press release by the General Financial Directorate. I would like to say at the end of this speech that the Financial Administration, by its nature, will never be a popular body of public administration. However, the Financial Administration must be here. I would like to remind you that over the last five years, it has raised more than 450 billion crowns in taxes. I would like to tell you that these taxes are not going to be collected themselves, they have to be measured, they have to be managed, they have to be taken care of, they have to make sure that they get to the state budget in time, and that actually makes it possible to cover the various costs that the state budget simply has to bear. I would also like to remind you that we are in the tax return period. Perhaps, Mr Member, if you have a trip with your tax return, perhaps you are also filing it, look at those tax administrators sitting there now in January, January from morning to evening, there are queues of taxpayers, tax returns were filed on real estate taxes, tax returns were filed on road taxes. Now it will end March, on 1 April we will have a deadline for filing a personal income tax. There are queues, often there are taxpayers with blank forms. Those officials are sitting there, self - sacrificing, because they're mostly people who just like the job and see it as a public service. And I would like to thank them for that, because they are constantly being dragged through these different cases, whether they are the challenges of the weddingmen, whether they are the hedge orders where we have also adopted them, and I have put a lot of pressure on it, a new methodology. We accepted that the Financial Administration accepted a shift in the Supreme Administrative Court case-law to the very last question. This means that even the Supreme Administrative Judge has moved forward in his judicial work and, of course, the Financial Administration has moved forward and adapted administrative practice. I would like to say that there is also a great deal of very good honest work being done for the benefit of all the citizens of this country, and this often media-distorted information is incredibly damaging to the financial administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u7	Thank you, too. Before I ask the honourable Member, I have some apologies and one de facto. So the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec apologizes to us for the morning meeting of the House for work reasons, Mr Martin Kupka apologises to us for today's meeting of the House between 9.30 and 11.00 for work reasons, Mr Krejza apologizes today for personal reasons, Mrs Balcarová apologises from 14.30 hours for health reasons, and Mrs Maříková apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day for health reasons. And now, please, Mr Ferjenčík, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond to the specific statement made by the Minister that the House rejected this interpelation for some procedural reasons. I personally voted in favour of refusing the interpellation. It was for material reasons. I didn't agree with the way you stood up to it, so please don't speak for the Members who voted on something, and don't say they did it for any other reason than what it really was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u9	I, too, thank you and please Mr Munzar for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u10	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your extensive performance. I was honestly trying to find the clear answer to my clear question in your speech. I must say, then, that perhaps you and the Prime Minister have some special training to do, how either not to answer a clear question, or to wrap it up in so many words that it is very difficult to find the answer. I'm gonna start with what you started with, that you didn't notice the factual reasons for refusing your answer. You may be aware that at least your staff on the parliamentary agenda is aware that the House's Rules of Procedure allow only to vote under Section 112 on written interpelations, that is to say only to accept or refuse. The factual reasons are always the contents of the comments, as are the factual reasons for the laws in the explanatory memorandum. I believe yours, since you haven't already read it yourself, like the Steno Protocol that your employees have done it, and I'm sorry you haven't reflected it on the material reasons that led to the motion to reject your answer. So it wasn't just a procedural decision, as my colleague Ferjenčík said here, but it was actually a substantive decision. You were talking about the law of competence and not having the right to enter the files. No one asked you to do that either. I asked you specific questions. And from what you've answered here, we can see how uncritical your attitude is. You asked Mr. CEO Janeček, who is personally behind the excessive zeal of the officials. It was the YES movement that brought overuse of powers in the Financial Administration, overuse of hedging orders. You put him in that position. The Prime Minister here advocated Mr. Janeček's approach to interpelling my colleague Blaha. Also for all the activities, for the overuse, he received a reward and became director of the Financial Office in southern Bohemia. And you uncritically accepted his explanation, and now you're interpreting it. But the Minister's task really is not uncritically to accept the opinion of the Financial Administration and just to repeat it here, but indeed, if there are any doubts, to take some steps and do some self-control. And I'm sorry it didn't happen, Madam Secretary. You said here that the control should be targeted, based on some evidence. Well, to reach out to the newlywed couple for a restaurant check, a newlywed couple who had a wedding reception at home, with a challenge under the threat of a fine as a mandatory person, well, that's a really precise, targeted aim of control. This really worked very well in this case. You can't be serious about telling me that it was targeted, this check, when a newlywed couple approached who had a wedding reception at home. You're the one who told me that it's - to challenge as a mandatory person - that it's the most sensitive way. I'll allow you to quote some things from the challenge. The Financial Authority invites the abovementioned beneficiary of the decision to provide information and so on. Lessons: This decision cannot be appealed separately. Other words:... and a fine of CZK 500 000 may be imposed for the offence, up to half a million. That's the gentleness. The sensitivity and gentleness of it is glowing, Madam Secretary, from the challenge. It's kind of a friendly and warm embrace of the Financial Administration, a challenge for a newlywed couple who had a wedding reception at home. However, it's not just a feeling. I was talking about a valid case law. And if we look at another case, namely the valid caselaw of the Regional Court's decision in Ostrava, he said that in the case of contacting other persons in the provisions of Section 57 of the Tax Code not mentioned, and those third parties to which you refer, the tax administrator must, if it is to be legally obtained evidence, safeguard the rights of the tax entity. Where specific questions are raised in the form of calls to such bodies, it is de facto an interview of witnesses, but without the participation of a tax entity. That means it's the opposite of what you said. In such a case, the Financial Administration does not preserve the rights of a tax entity but circumvents the testimony that the tax entity to which the control is directed should participate. But I'm not talking about a specific device that's under control. I was really good at it, and I have to repeat my question again, and I want a specific, clear, precise answer - from what title is the mandatory person of the newlywed couple according to § 57, who had a feast at home? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u11	Thank you, too. Before we continue the debate, I'll read some notes. Minister Maláčová apologizes to us within 11 hours for reasons of work, Mr Rozner apologises to us from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Tureček apologizes to us between 7 and 7. 3. and 15. 3. for family reasons. And if anyone else is reporting for the debate? Mr. Ambassador, huh? [[No.]] Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your response. To the procedure. The way I felt about it, the discussion wasn't finished, it was interrupted, but we're probably gonna argue about it here. Okay, I'm not gonna escalate this any further. But again, about what you said. I'm not gonna repeat what I said again, I'm just gonna restock it. Maybe I didn't stress it enough. The person in the particular cases was not a married couple, but a restaurant where the single weddings were just taking place. And I don't have a file. That means she was a controlled person. And I will add it very hard: if the Financial Administration gets one, two, three, more, I don't know, of course, how many public impulses about not fulfilling its obligations somewhere, she simply cannot ignore it by the principle of her activity. That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u13	Thank you, too. Mr. Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u14	Let's talk about the formal thing first. The House resolution is clear, accurate - rejection of the answer. That's the House's order, there was no interruption. Next time, your parliamentary agenda should focus on the resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies. About what you just said. I didn't say controlled persons were newlywed couples. I asked why, during the inspection of the facility, the newlywed couples were addressed in accordance with Section 57 as obliged persons, but also those who had the wedding at home. So I repeat my question again because I didn't get the answer again: from what degree in tax proceedings to some particular restaurant is the mandatory person of a newlywed couple who had a wedding reception at home?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u15	Thank you. Madam Secretary wishes to respond? He says yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u16	Just one more sentence. You saw the tax files? I don't. So how do you know? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u17	Thank you, too. I'll read the note. We apologize to Mrs Golasowská from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. The Member wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u18	Yes. It's called fogging and debathing, what you've just done, Madam Secretary. Ninety-five newlywed couples, you have accurate information that all the ninety-five newlywed couples who were approached had a feast at the restaurant. I can't agree with the interpretation you said here. You didn't answer my question, which is why I'm making a motion, pursuant to § 112 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, a motion to reject your reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u19	I just want to say that it's a proposal for a disagreeable opinion. Now, if no one wishes to continue the debate, I would end the debate. I see an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. Please log in with your voting cards again. We will therefore vote on a dissenting position on interpelation according to the House press 371. I don't see enough logged in at the moment, so I'm gonna try to make sure we can fill the lines. And the MPs are coming. For the arrivals, we will vote on a dissenting position with an interview with Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová according to the House press 371. I think there's enough of us at the moment. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the disagreeable position. Who's against it? There are 85 Members and Members in the 118 vote, for 39, against 43. The opposition has not been adopted. No other position has been proposed, so this concludes the discussion of this press and we move on. Thank you, everyone, thank you, Minister, thank you, Mr President. Another intervention is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, House Press 376, and it is Mrs Richterová's interpelation. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Olga Richterová's interpellation with regard to the solution of socially excluded localities and acute problems of the Janov housing estate. Interpelation together with the reply is presented as a House press 376. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. He's not present, so I'm not going to open the debate and delay the interpelation. Next, there is an interpelation for the Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk. Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk responded to the interpellation of Mr Martin Kupka on the protection of unique historical pheasants in Měšice. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 381. I am opening the debate and I would like to ask Mr Kupka. However, he sent his note and I don't see him here at the moment, and even though he announced that he should be close and could arrive, unfortunately I can no longer wait and the press hearing will be over, the House will take no position on him. And we have another interview for Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, this time it's the House Press 394. Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová replied to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interview on the remuneration of officials of the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 394. I am opening the debate and, please, the Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I hope it's better now. Just let me make a note. It is in the same spirit, this interpelation, and the same overuse of powers caused directly by the Managing Director of Financial Administration Janeček. I am surprised at the vote of the YES movement, because you legitimize it by voting this way, by not agreeing to my motion to refuse interpelation. But it's each and every one of you's decisions. Dear Minister, instead of protecting a citizen, his rights to state power come to the floor once again a tendency to protect state power at the expense of a citizen. I've already told the newlyweds, and I'm saying it here on purpose again because this is a similar case. State power in the form of Financial Administration has been given the green light to anything so that the management of the resort can boast of increasing tax collection. In this campaign nothing is sacred to them, nor to go to the edge, or even beyond the edge of the law, because in this vision of the world the purpose justifies any means. And do we really want a state like this? [[10.00 hours]] The task of democratic politics, as I said a moment ago, is to hinder the state's power in its expansion, so that it does not feel all-powerful and untouchable. We see the approach in this past case, and in this case, the management of the Ministry of Finance is an advocacy of the Financial Administration, a non-critical approach to its actions, or a downgrade of its errors. And I'm not going to accept that, and that's why I'm intersecting you in these things. And this one has another interpellation is another example. Management In my view, the financial administration has unlawfully motivated the Financial Administration officials not to be objective in order not to safeguard the rights of a tax entity, to systematically create their bias and their direct financial commitment to tax administration. When it came out, first there was an uncritical approach and a mist. Answers: it didn't happen. The Minister, in turn, uncritically accepted information from the Financial Administration that did not happen. And when the evidence came out and it couldn't be fogged, there was a phase in the budget committee: it's just a stupid management decision, but it doesn't really mean anything. Yes, in such an atmosphere, planned by the ANO movement, the Financial Administration feels all-powerful and can easily go beyond the edge of its legal powers. We also feel that way, because the state is losing the courts to companies on hedge orders. But the time and the loss of trust, because business is primarily about trust between the client and the supplier, the company, that's not going to be replaced by those companies. What exactly happened in this case? I've been interrogating you on the remuneration of the Financial Administration's officials in connection with tax evasion. I asked you if you could rule out such an internship. To see the timeline, I asked you on December 19 after information began to appear in the public space. You've said before on November 4 that such a system doesn't exist, that - that's a quote - financial officials can't be and aren't motivated to be rewarded for housewives, that's just not true, that's just a lie. That's what you said on November 4th. But January 9th: At the meeting I really made sure that it wasn't happening regionally, and I have information that it wasn't happening. So it's not happening, it's not happening and it's not happening, it's unacceptable. On 16 January, in reply to my interpellation, you answered me when I drew out the important things that, in principle, you refuse that the amount of the remuneration in the Financial Administration would be linked to the amount of the tax measured and that the remuneration can only be paid for the successful achievement of an extraordinary or particularly significant service task. In conclusion, you referred me to the Financial Administration press release, which demented this practice. Today we all know it was happening. On 19 February 2016, then director Janeček issued an internal instruction in which points 8.1 and 8.2 clearly bind the provision of remuneration to a specific amount of tax revenue. We even have a specific decision on rewards. So the answer, if you don't mind, Madam Secretary, wasn't relevant. I am very sorry that I received such an answer from you. So it leads me to the question: How did you personally resolve this flagrant and illegal internal communication directly with Mr Janeček? As I said here in the previous interview, he has received a reward for good service as director of the Financial Office for the South Bohemia Region. Apparently, he was doing what he saw in the eyes of the Ministry's administration. And the zeal of some officials seems to know no bounds. So how specifically do you deal with the situation that you may have been misinformed? And I just hope that you were misinformed by the entire Financial Administration, because the receipt of the communication was all 14 financial authorities and one specialized, so everyone knew. Meaning, didn't everyone at the meeting tell you the truth? So how exactly do you deal with this? And can you exclude that in all other areas, not only in the field of research and development, there is the same model? Can you please rule that out? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u21	Good morning, honourable Members. Secretary Alena Schillerová is ready to answer. Before I give her my word, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 14.30 to 18.00, Mr Ivan Bartoš apologizes for reasons of work. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to add my comment to the reply to Mr Munzar's written interpellation and to inform you of the whole subject in a sort of summary manner and to respond, therefore, to some particularly inaccurate or distorted statements that have been made in the media, or any questions that may arise from you. Last week, or before last, sorry, it flies terribly, a 20th meeting of the Budget Committee took place a week ago, which I attended on this subject together with the new Director-General of the General Financial Directorate, Ms. Engineer Taťána Richterová, and we provided both relatively comprehensive and comprehensive explanations on the target rewards in the Financial Administration. What exactly is going on? I'll explain. Indeed, the core of the problem is a certain non-standard setting of the use of target rewards under Section 134a of the Labour Code. In fact, it was a report from the Director-General who had the whole problem investigated, because I received information, repeatedly, two information from the General Financial Directorate, as Mr Munzar here has said, that this practice is not happening. So, indeed, in those years 2016 to 2018, as the Director General put it, and as she investigated it, the decision of then CEO Martin Janeček allowed the use of target rewards. I'll explain how it was set. The target remuneration concerned the financial management staff carrying out specific checks. The first type is science and research. The second type is called. Transfer (?) pricing, or associated related persons, verification, actually... It has to do with making money and the dividends, how with aggressive tax planning and these things, which are often mentioned here in the House of Commons. It is a group of people within the Republic in the Financial Administration, which is concerned with this. That's not what regular controllers do. This is done by specific workers who have to know accounting, corporate taxes, tax issues, they have to know the international element, contracts to prevent double taxation contracts, they have to control language, etc. It is indeed in the Financial Administration's control activity so-called, if I may say so in a delegated sense, royal discipline. And then CEO Janeček set up a methodical instruction - and I beg you, if I may ask you to listen very carefully. He couldn't have been the person under the Labour Code who would have made a deal about the target reward. That can only be the director of a particular financial office. But he simply set up and gave the instruction that I called on the budget committee to be stupid, to be managerially stupid, when he set the instruction and advised the directors to tie these specific checks to these target rewards, with a million crowns on the one area, to the other area also put a million crowns on the other, which, converted into those workers, meant where it was closed at those offices, about five to ten thousand crowns per head. Just to realize the impact. However, it was up to the various directors of the financial authorities whether they would close such target remuneration. [[10.10 hours]] And for example, it was very interesting that Ms. CEO Tatjana Richterová was the head of the largest Financial Authority for the capital city of Prague, and that's why she said it there that she thought the order was stupid, so she didn't conclude a single such goal reward. Anyway, despite the stupidity of this directive, despite the existence of these target rewards in some cases at some offices, I have to say that there is no way for a control officer to proceed differently than by law. No reward can ever motivate him to break the basic principles of tax administration, tax rules, to violate other tax or accounting regulations. They must always follow the law. What is important - in fact, in the process, and it follows from the instruction, the one that the CEO actually issued in 2016 I suspect, so it is important to say that it was of course still important to make it final. That means the appeal financial authority was involved. That means the Board of Appeal. Second eyes independent in Brno, which assess whether a possible house will acquire legal power. What I want to stress, however, is: the entry of Director-General Richterová into office, which was sometimes on December 29 last year, this practice was immediately terminated. Everything was finished, she declared it there, and this practice will no longer proceed. On your question, Mr. Ambassador, as I have drawn personnel conclusions, I just want to point out that under the Service Act, I have no personnel competence. I can't lead disciplinary action. But I have asked the Director-General, who is in a position to appear under the Civil Service Act, to investigate the whole issue as to why I have this information, and I have received it in writing as to how it happened and to report to me. Of course, I do not have the report, Mr Member, because, as you know, the budget committee was a week ago. I don't have it at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u23	Thank you, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Munzar report in this order in the debate. Everyone from the scene, so it's not a priority electronic application. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hope that we all agree in this House's plenary that Mr Munzar really has the right to a new answer in this matter at a time when the first answer is plainly false, where the Minister debuts the claim that perhaps this practice is being done. So I suppose that the Member deserves to get a new answer when the Financial Administration admitted that it was really the case and that the housewives were happening. I don't blame the Minister for this, but it is simply that the answer is not in harmony with reality. What I find very interesting, however, is that we have received material on the Committee on Budgets, which claims that the fact that an official person - the tax administrator - receives as a result of his work the promise of a certain remuneration cannot give rise to the bias of that person, even if the condition for granting entitlement to the target remuneration is the achievement of a certain minimum amount of tax on the basis of tax control. This is what it says in the material that we received at that meeting of the Committee on Budgets. And what interested me was that in reply to the interpelation at a time when the Minister thought that the practice was not happening, it was written: "In addition to the interference of decisions so wrongly made, this procedure could lead to a significant risk of questioning acts issued by an official person who was personally involved in a specific conclusion, that is to say, the assessment of the tax. [[Financial]] In the case of individual acts and possible final assessment of the tax, the tax entity could then object to the bias towards that official person.' This contradiction seems very interesting to me that when the Ministry thought that the practice was not happening, it claimed that because of this practice it would be biased so that, after the scandal and they had to admit it, the representatives of the tax administration would subsequently come forward and claim that no bias was created. So I would ask the Minister to clarify this obvious contradiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u25	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Now, Mr Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u26	Thank you. I have two things too. In that one, I was a little crazy by my colleague Ferjenčík because he quoted from the answer to my interpelation, and that's exactly right. First, if you, Madam Secretary, thought that this practice was not happening, you were so falsely, imprecisely informed, apparently the Financial Administration, so you wrote to me that such a practice would cause bias de facto, that is what Mr Ferjenčík quoted here, and I will not repeat it all again and read it. And now that you've found out it's true, you're bagging it. You're saying that such a practice doesn't create bias, that the officials have to follow the law, that it doesn't really matter. About what you said about it being just an option for the directors of the financial authorities, so the internal message is called the terms of the promise of the target reward, namely an internal message signed 19. 2. directly by Martin Janeček, for example, says that the target remuneration of the amount referred to in point 7 will be awarded to the staff member in accordance with point 4.1, provided that the amount of the reduction applied is equal to or greater than 2,5 million. Crowns. For example. There are more examples. It was not an option, it was the internal communication of the Director-General to its subordinate departments as to how they should proceed in determining the remuneration. I can't imagine any subordinate saying to his superior: I don't care, Mr Director, your internal message. It's just a possibility for me. I'm not doing that. It was a direct communication from the Supreme Head of Financial Administration and a de facto methodological instruction for the other departments. I am not a member of the Budget Committee, although I was present at the meeting, I do not know whether the promise has already been fulfilled, whether the members of the Financial Committee will receive the additional documents, the minutes of the meetings, etc. requested by the Financial Committee. However, it is clear from this, Madam Secretary, that in several cases you have actually uncritically accepted the explanation of the Financial Administration and sent it further to the public and to me personally in the interview. I'm very sorry, but I'm also going to make a motion to disagree with your answer at this point in time for material reasons. I believe that this time MEPs will join in this, because the House cannot agree with an answer that was inaccurate, irrelevant and does not correspond to reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u27	I thank my colleague Munzar. Now, Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Well, let's start with bias. It's not at all a contradiction. That's just consistent. Because bias solves tax rules. The tax system essentially states how bias is assessed. And that it must be derived from the relation to the particular person, that is to say, the performer of the monitored worker and the person under control. And basically, the fact that there was a construction of the target remuneration doesn't create any non-standard ratio, but, in turn, the bias objection is filed by a tax entity. We even have the case-law of the Supreme Administrative Court, I believe, which says that such a decision is not being examined, but in the context of a specific procedure on the assessment or assessment of the tax is being assessed. And it has already been, and I have mentioned it on the floor of the Committee on Budgets, there is already one decision by the Supreme Administrative Court, which, in this matter, where the objection of bias was actually raised in the examination of such a decision, has simply rejected this NSS. [[10.20 hours]] That means the target reward couldn't have contributed. I said "if she'd contributed," but she couldn't contribute to any motivation, because the controller just can't break the law when he's doing control. My statements are completely consistent. The fact that you said, Mr Munzar, that you can't imagine a financial office or the director of a financial office disrespecting the recommendation - because he can't recommend anything other than that, because the responsibility under law is to the director of the financial office, Mr Director General, but he was like that. It was Mrs. Managing Director Richterová who, at the time, ran the Financial Authority for the capital city of Prague and simply did not respect it. She didn't make a single decision on the target reward, which she clearly said on the budget committee. I repeat again, the practice has been terminated. It was a stupid order from the former CEO. That's what I stand for. It was up to the particular directors of the financial authorities whether or not they respected him. And despite all this, the law could not be broken because the controller must not break the law under the vision of five or ten thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u29	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Mr Munzar is also reporting for the debate, and Mr Ferjenčík too. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u30	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for the addition. Then I will read again what Mr. Ferjenčík has already read. It's a quote directly from your answer. "It is clear that such practice would be very short-sighted from the point of view of the whole Financial Administration of the Czech Republic. In addition to the cancellation of decisions thus wrongly issued, the procedure in question could lead to a significant risk of questioning acts issued by an official person who, in person - financially - was involved in the parentheses, in favour of a specific conclusion, that is to say, the assessment of the tax. In the case of individual acts and possible final assessment of the tax, the tax entity could then object to the bias towards that official person.' That's your answer. Those are the words you wrote to me in your reply. Now you're saying it's not true. So what is there to believe? The one you wrote in the answer - whether it's all irrelevant - whether it wasn't happening, or the fact that it can't cause bias - or should we believe what you're telling us today? But it is logical, Madam Secretary, that when you motivate an inspector financially to pay taxes, you give him a limit, so, of course, he cannot treat it objectively, because with a vision of his target reward, of course, the limits that will be given in that internal instruction will be reached. In short, if you motivate someone financially to pay taxes, they cannot treat tax control objectively. And that's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u31	Now, Mr Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to ask you one more thing. How is it possible that if all the 14 directors of the regional tax administration received this information and knew that the Director General had given this stupid instruction - I think it was rather illegal - how is it possible that when there was a media scandal that none of these people had brought you to the attention? And Madam Secretary, that's how practice was done. We should start dealing with that quickly. And instead, they actually let you bathe in it, prepared the evidence for an untrue answer for Mr. Munzar. And now we're dealing with this with a great deal of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u33	Thank you. I don't see anyone reporting to the debate. I can therefore end the debate. I will still read two apologies, Mrs Maxová, from 10.00 to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Pour from 14.30 to 18.00 for working reasons. I ask Mr Munzar to conclude if he is proposing a resolution under the Rules of Procedure Act. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u34	Yes. Thank you, Mr President. I've already said that here at the end of my previous performance. I suggest we disagree with the answer. This is nothing specifically against the Minister now, but indeed against the answer, because the Minister wrote irrelevant figures in the reply. I really cannot imagine, and I will also ask the members of the ANO movement not to put in place practice that even irrelevant answers to inadequate facts will only be made for the truth by the vote. I beg you to speak in favour of disagreeing with the reply under Rule 112 (5) of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u35	Thank you. We will decide in the vote number one hundred and nineteen. I'll check you out one more time. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. [[Gong.]] I will arrange for those who are interested in deciding on this proposal to appear in the hall and to be able to make a decision. We're already in a position to settle. We will decide in the vote number 119 on the proposal by Mr Vojtěch Munzar that the Chamber of Deputies does not agree with the reply of the Minister of Finance, Alena Schillerová, to his intervention. I've started voting number 119, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 119. Of the 81 Members present for 37, against 40. The motion was not accepted. Thank you. That's it. That's it. That's it. We will continue by interpelling Mr Stanislav Blaha on the registration of the beneficial owner in the records of the beneficial owners, House Press 403. Minister Jan Kněžínek responded to Mr Blaha's interpelation and this is submitted as House Press 403 for discussion to the Chamber of Deputies. I open the debate and ask who is the first to sign up for it. Colleague Blaha reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, a few weeks ago, I interrogated Minister Kněžínek on a matter which is very troubling us at the office in Uherské Hradiště, where I am mayor. After discussions with my colleagues, I know that, of course, Uherské Hradiště is no exception in this and it bothers all the cities, municipalities, but also the regions that have their own business companies. This is an obligation to register the beneficial owner in the register of beneficial owners of all legal entities. Unfortunately, this obligation also applies to legal entities established by municipalities. But, logically, it is not possible to mention the real owner. The record of the beneficial owners should be registered as - in quotation marks - the actual owner, director or executive, basically the statute of the contribution organization or business company. The meaning of the law thus disappears in my opinion, because the decisive influence in the legal entities established by the municipality really does not have their director or executive, but the council or council of the municipality. So the whole thing in practice means that we fill in a useless name box that doesn't really belong there just to fulfill a formal obligation. Instead of simplifying work for municipalities, we add additional administration and paperwork for paperwork. People at the office are thus wasting valuable time filling in unnecessary boxes instead of being able to devote themselves fully to their work. It is not only the municipalities who are struggling with this problem, but also the associations, the communities of the owners of the units and others. With them, there is no person we could consider to be the real owner of the law. This is not only about the authorities, but also about ordinary people. [[10.30 hours]] Minister, while you yourself acknowledge in your reply the increased administrative burden that this obligation represents for legal persons, you are equally aware of the need to clarify and refine the rules relating to this institute. I therefore ask for an accelerated solution to this problem not only in order to better reflect the sense and objective of the European directive that governs this matter. If the Ministry of Justice does not submit such a solution, I ask for the support of my own proposal, which I will submit if the Ministry does not do so in the foreseeable future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u37	I thank Mr Blah and the Minister of Justice Kněžínek is interested in speaking in the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Member, honourable Members, as I said in the reply, and, of course, the arrangement which is the transposition of 4. The AML Directive, which means anti-money laundering and terrorist financing, is currently being analysed in connection with the fact that I already have 5. The AML directive, which brings some new things, and logically it will have to be followed by a change of legislation. And we, in this context, and I've admitted it in the answer, are very intensely concerned with what should actually be - and not even what should be the subject, but who should actually be the subject of the obligation to state the real owner. Because the directive itself is relatively general and does not provide for any exceptions. It says, therefore, that for legal persons these data should be recorded in the register, in order to ensure transparency of the operation of the companies concerned themselves, hence the transparency of the company itself. It is logical that for some legal entities it is really just formalism, and typically it is legal persons of public law that can't really be controlled by any outsider than those of the corporation itself. That is, if we talk about the contribution organizations established by the municipalities, which is probably the most typical example, it is logical that this decisive influence will indeed be exercised by the council as a beneficiary of the legitimacy of the public corporation, that is to say the municipality. However, writing down representatives, from my point of view at least, does not make sense, because this is quite a well-known figure, and we would then have to play with coalition, opposition, etc., because of course the real influence of individual representatives, albeit all of them having one vote, will depend on what the political situation in the community is. This means that, in our opinion, the real contribution organisations established by the municipalities should be excluded from this future regime of legal regulation. It is a little more complicated for legal persons, who at first glance can also appear illogical to register the real owner. In your letter and in your question, you yourself referred to the association of the owners of the units as a typized company. But, of course, life can bring about different situations, and the existing legislation also allows SVJ, where the sole owner will be, and thus the legal person can be the owner. That means, here we are getting into a situation where it can be owned by another legal entity, and here it's like the property structure can get a little blurry, and here I'm not sure it's going to go flat-rate in the future legislation to say that it's going to come out. However, it is a matter that we are intensively engaged in and should therefore be addressed within the framework of transposition 5. AML directive, which we prepare together with the Financial Analysis Office and the Ministry of Finance. I assume that in the foreseeable future, and now, unfortunately, I will not tell you exactly the term, but in the foreseeable future, the legislation should be introduced and sent to the external commentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u39	Thank you, Minister. Mr Blaha is still reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u40	Thank you for your answer, Minister. So I take it as an assurance that something will actually be done about it. 'Cause I'm just gonna put it this way. I said it in general. I will use the situation that actually exists in our city. How is the director of the Slovak Museum the owner of this museum? By the way, it's a company that has relatively huge assets in its administration. What is the manager of the water park his real owner or director of the Slovak Theatre? He doesn't own the theatre, either. And if we're talking about it being a fight against money laundering, I don't think it's happening with these organizations. In addition, the city has its statutory representative. If we're talking about the city's owning a company, then the city really has its statutory representative, and maybe it would be a better thing than registering the company's statutes. Not that I want to, but it would seem more logical to me than the practice we've been doing so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u41	Thank you. Is the Minister interested? Yes. Minister Kněžínek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just very briefly in terms of the transposition of the AML directive. I didn't mention it. This is January 2020, which means that the presentation of legislation should really be going into a commentary procedure in the near future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u43	Thank you. I don't see anyone else reporting to the debate, so now I'm gonna give you a chance. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes between 10 and 11 for work reasons. I'm done with the debate, nobody's checking in. I'm asking if there's a suggestion. It's not. In doing so, I can conclude an interview by Mr Stanislav Blaha on the registration of the beneficial owner in the record of the beneficial owners, House press 403, without a resolution, because Mr Blaha does not require a decision from the House. Mr Stanislav Blaha's last written interview is that of allowing order procedures to deal with misdemeanors in connection with the conflict of interest law. This is the House Press 419 and this interview was directed to the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. I'm opening the debate. Mr Blaha is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u44	Hello again. My second interpelation also concerns a matter that we have encountered together with colleagues at the Municipal Authority in Uherské Hradiště. This is a huge and unnecessary administrative burden associated with the conflict of interest law. Only last year, the Ministry of Justice announced to us more than 60 violations of public officials who failed to comply with the obligation to submit a notice to the central register within the time limit. Their discussion in the classical administrative procedure represents a large workload and is also accompanied by increased costs for the Authority. If the policy has submitted a notification or failed to comply with this law, it can be clearly identified from the central register of notifications and no further evidence is necessary. In my opinion, it would be enough for a solution and correction to allow a court order, the Office would have handled the matter by issuing an order, and only if the defendant had appealed would the whole matter have gone into administrative proceedings. Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and detailed answer. I do not agree with her for just one reason - they ignore the main importance of ordering, which is simplicity. The administrative authority shall assess the content of the offences and, if there is no doubt about the actual situation, use the order procedure and issue an order to impose an administrative penalty. Typically, it would be the negotiation of offences that consist of the failure to submit a notice under the conflict of interest law. The information on the facts shall be kept by the authority in the central register of notifications, so there is no room for doubt. The accused's rights are not limited because he can defend himself in administrative proceedings. On the contrary, if the administrative authority had doubts as to the facts, there is nothing to prevent it from taking immediate action in the course of an administrative procedure. I do not see the only reason why this exception to the possibility of using the order procedure should be preserved for offences under the Conflict of Interest Act. The negotiation of offences under the Conflict of Interest Act is not particularly different from that of other types of offences, and therefore, in my opinion, this procedural anomaly is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u45	Thank you, Mr Stanislav Blah. The Minister is about to answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u46	Thank you. In fact, we are not at odds, Mr. Ambassador, because the regulation that came into the conflict of interest law and was led by some sort of not-so-conceived effort to eliminate some kind of corruption act, that the matter would be removed by command proceedings and actually swept under the carpet, is a bit odd, I think, because if the matter wanted to be swept under the carpet, it would certainly not be the order procedure. I say for myself that today a little while ago I had a meeting with my colleagues from the Ministry and I instructed that in the nearest amendment to the law on conflict of interest it should be the provision of § 23 para. 5 if I am not mistaken, the conflict of interest law is modified in such a way that the ordering procedure is allowed. Because I understand that the rights of the participant will not suffer because he has the right to resist. By submitting the opposition itself, even if it is not justified, the order shall be cancelled from the very beginning and the proceedings shall be continued, including, where necessary, the oral hearing, if necessary. The issue that we will just have to resolve in this context is the issue of the order on the spot. That's what we're getting into relatively legal detail, but there's a problem - I'm sorry to burden - but the problem is that by order on the spot, a maximum of ten thousand crowns of fines can be imposed, while some of the lower limits of fines for those offences are actually higher, so there is some disproportion. But I don't think there's a problem with orders on the spot, that is, when I say it simply, in block driving, but in the fact that it's not even possible to issue a full command that contains a statement, there's a full justification and there's a lesson in that there's resistance. And here I would like the amendment, the amendment of the law to allow the filing, virtually. discussing the matter by command procedure. On the other hand, we will be looking for a carrier to which we could possibly connect. This means, at the nearest amendment that the Ministry of Justice will submit and which will concern the conflict of interest law, this adjustment, and it is my promise here, we will include in the conflict of interest law. And the ordering procedure, where there is nothing corrupt, that is full-fledged... there is the result of a full-fledged decision, including the reason why it was decided, as decided, we will include in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u47	Thank you. Now, Mr Blaha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u48	So, if I am to take into account what has been said here from the Minister's mouth, I am satisfied, because I take the impression that this will work with it, that we are quite on the same page, and I will certainly be very happy to see it happen as soon as possible. I mentioned the high administrative burden here. But it's about something else. Imagine that the city office of any community with extended scope is trying to be such a bit of an advisory body for all the mayors and we are now calling them in, we are dealing with a matter that they, as I was talking to them, why they didn't give it, so they lived in the impression that until a constitutional complaint was discussed, they would in principle not be sanctioned, and suddenly we come up with a list of 60 names that we have as a community with extended scope to deal with. And it's like I don't like it very much. Of course, we have to do this duty, but it's not quite a pleasant thing, believe me. That is why I welcome this issue here, and I hope that very soon it will also become clear how it is with the conflict of interest law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u49	Thank you. The minister is interested, isn't he interested? He doesn't. If no one signs up for debate, I can end the debate. Mr Blaha does not propose a resolution. Isn't that right, Mr. Ambassador? Are you proposing no resolution? [[No.]] No, okay. In that case, I can end this interpelation. So far, we have exhausted a possible programme of responses to the written interpelations of Members when... interpelations one, two, three and five are further interrupted. The others have already been discussed. That concludes point 157 for today. We'll continue it on Thursday next week. After the end of paragraph 157, I declare a break until 11.00, given that the next programme will continue with the 11 hours approved by the agenda of the meeting. I would like to inform Members that, according to the Rules of Procedure and at 11 o'clock on Thursday, proposals may be made for a possible change to the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-001-157.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we should now focus on points 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, which are contracts at second reading, paragraphs 86, 132, 95, 96, 97, which are contracts at first reading, and paragraph 94. We would then discuss the items under the approved agenda. There are oral interpelations on the agenda this afternoon, i.e. paragraph 158. With the replacement card number 12, Mr Veselý will vote. They apologise for today's meeting, Mr Pavel Blažek, from 11 to 13 o'clock for work reasons, and Minister Klára Dostálová, from 14.30 to 19 o'clock, also for work reasons. Before we proceed to discuss the fixed points, I ask if anyone is interested in making a proposal to amend the approved agenda of the 27th meeting. I don't see anybody like that, so I'm initiating a follow-up on the point.
