ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-011-182.u1	182. Report on the activities of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council and on the state of affairs in the field of radio and television broadcasting and on the provision of audiovisual media services on request for 2016 /German press 78/ The report submitted was discussed by the Election Committee. The committee resolution is available as House press 78/1. I welcome the rapporteur of the Committee here, Mrs Barbora Kořanová, and I ask her to introduce us to the committee resolution. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-011-182.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, allow me to present a report on the activities of the Radio and Television Council and on the state of affairs in the field of radio broadcasting and on the provision of audiovisual media services on request for 2016. This is House press number 78. That annual report was submitted in due time. The Election Committee discussed it in its 37th meeting during the seventh parliamentary term as House Press 1103. Subsequently, the item was placed for discussion by the Chamber of Deputies, but it was not able to discuss it until the end of the last parliamentary term. For that reason, the report was submitted in the new parliamentary term and the electoral committee discussed it again at its 6th meeting. [[11.40 hours]] The contents of the report. In 2016, the Radio and Television Council fulfilled its legal obligations. The Council also sets priorities for each year, whose implementation enables targeted action to be taken in the field and this procedure to be evaluated. The Leitmotiv in the Council's work is to protect children from the negative effects of broadcasting and objectivity and the balance of pre-election broadcasting. Particular attention is deserved to be given to the priority of media literacy, in which three major studies have been presented mapping the level of media literacy in persons under 15 years of age, over 15 years of age and groups of vulnerable persons. These are seniors and minorities. The factors that fundamentally change the development of media space in 2016 should also be mentioned. The first is the development of technologies in the Internet environment, the second is the upcoming digitalisation of radios and the third is the publication by the European Commission of the proposal for an amendment to the AVMS Directive. Technologies are being developed that enable standard television broadcasting to be combined with internet-based platforms and related specific broadcasting content. These may then fall outside the existing regulatory framework and may contain elements that will not be subject to standard control, although they may significantly interfere with the rights of viewers, by extension to consumers. The Council has therefore set itself a priority for mapping technological possibilities with subsequent reflection in relation to the possible regulation or inclusion of areas that are out of control under existing regulation regulations. The digitalisation of radio broadcasting is a rather complicated process in which a compromise position is sought as far as possible, which would be accepted for all relevant parties to the radio market, i.e. the Czech Radio as a public operator, a private radio operator and also a listener. The question of the most appropriate procedure has been addressed since 2015 on the working group under the Ministry of Culture's gesture and was approved in 2016 as a result of the activity by Government Resolution No. 730 material Design of the development of the Czech Radio digital broadcast, which also affects digitalisation of radio broadcasting as a whole. The Council actively participated in the work on this material, was also a reminder point for the approval of the material. At European level, 2016 was greatly influenced by the preparation and subsequent publication of the proposal for an amendment to the pan-European regulatory framework, the AVMS Directive prepared by the European Commission. The preparation and comments on this proposal were addressed by the ERGA International Group, which brings together the regulatory authorities for the audiovisual media of all Member States of the European Union and is an active member of the Council. I would like to make a motion for a resolution in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-011-182.u3	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. No one's logged in or checked in. I am ending the general debate. The final word will not be heard, so I am opening up a detailed debate, giving the rapporteur the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-011-182.u4	Resolution of the Election Committee of the 6th meeting of 10 May 2018 on the Report on the activities of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council and on the state of affairs in the field of radio and television broadcasting and on the provision of audiovisual media services on request for 2016, House press 78. The Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies after hearing the introductory words of Mr Bc's President of the Council for Radio and Television Broadcasting. Ivan krejčí, Ms Barbora Kořanová's intelligence report and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament approves the Report on the Activities of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council on the Status of Broadcasting and on the Provision of Audiovisual Media Services on Request for 2016 pursuant to House Press 78, II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the discussion of the House's press by the 78 electoral committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-011-182.u5	I thank and conclude a detailed debate. There is no interest in the final word, so we can proceed with the vote. We will vote on the motion for a resolution, as the rapporteur has introduced us to it. The point is that the Chamber of Deputies approves the Report on the activities of the Radio and Television Council. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 59, for 145, sorry, 144 Members entered, for 109, against 17. The motion was accepted. I'm terminating the discussion of this point. From today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Farský apologizes from 11 to 12 o'clock because of his work in Prague. Initiating discussion of Parliament's press 116.
