ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u1	The joint debate on points 43, 44 and 45 /house prints 360, 229 and 230/ We will now consider paragraphs 43, 44 and 45. This is a Government Bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, House press 360, and on the proposal of Members of Lukáš Černohorský, Tomáš Martínek, Jakub Michálek, Ivan Bartoš and others for the issue of constitutional law amending Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, House press 229, and Proposal of Members of Lukáš Černohorský, Tomáš Martínek, Jakub Michálek, Ivan Bartoš and others for the Act amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on Supreme Audit Office, House Press 230. In all cases, we are first reading. We have dealt with these Houses of Press on 30 January and we have interrupted the merged general debate. At the rapporteur's table is Mr Roman Kubíček, who is the rapporteur of all three Houses of Press, and there is a representative of the plaintiff in the case of the House press 360, which is Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. We will now continue with the suspended merged debate in which Mr Pávek is signed up. And Mr Pávek is not here, but the Member is reporting for a general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u2	Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u3	Excuse me, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can question the lady.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on both proposals relating to the change in the competence of the SAO. [[Members are still noisy.]] As we have noted, the parliamentary proposal applies, among other things, to regions and statutory cities, while the government proposal extends control to municipalities with extended scope. We learned from the report that the Government's Legislative Council did not recommend this proposal for approval, with some doubts as to the suitability of the very competences proposed by the Government. Despite all the recommendations of the Government's Legislative Council, the government finally approved the proposal. It can be noted that since 2001 this has been the eighth attempt to include the control of the management of municipalities, cities and regions. A in 2016 The Senate rejected the last draft of this amendment of the law and, at the same time, recommended that a new proposal be tabled, with a legislative proposal to eliminate duplication of checks being submitted at the same time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u5	I'm sorry, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, please let us create an atmosphere in which we hear each other. I am no longer hearing what Mrs Kovářová says. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I will therefore repeat once again that in 2016, the Senate rejected the last proposal and recommended that a new proposal be submitted to the Government, but at the same time as a legislative proposal to eliminate duplication of controls in municipalities, cities and regions. Unfortunately, this did not happen, although the government had at its disposal a detailed analysis of multiple checks on local authorities. That is why we believe that the government should at the same time present such a legislative proposal that would reduce or reduce the number of controls to remove the very duplications. Alternatively, sometimes the checks on one project are tripled, which, of course, makes it very difficult to run the municipalities and their offices. This is the first request and the first objection from the Mayors and Independents. And the other. And it's after consultation, I think, with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and with the Association of Local Authorities. Both of these associations, respectively. the Union, rejecting the extension of the checks to the municipalities with extended scope. So I think it would be a good idea for some alignment to be made with what the Legislative Council of the Government has said, what the Senate has recommended, and what it also sounds from municipalities and cities. It is clear that the number of checks is extremely significant and that there should certainly be an elimination of the duplicates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u7	Thank you. Mr Zahradník will respond with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u8	Mr Vice-President, I would like to respond to the circumstances surrounding the presentation of this law. In recent weeks, the Supreme Audit Office has published the conclusion of the audit carried out at the Ministry of the Environment and the SAO noted that there were more than 10 billion crowns spent to improve air quality, and the SAO reports that air quality has not improved over the controlled period 2015 to 2018. Which can also be interpreted by misinterpreting the money. If this happened to the mayor and the amount was a thousand times smaller, he'd be investigated by the police and maybe he'd be tried for it. Prime Minister Babiš, to whom I approached with an interview, evaluates the work of the SAO by committing several misinterpretations and misconceptions that he mistreatments certain facts that his results are very misleading. He critically criticizes the SAO if its conclusion concerns the Prime Minister's favourite Minister Brabec, and at the same time wants to send this misguided and untrustworthy office to innocent mayors of cities, municipalities with extended scope and on the edge. I think this is an unsubstantiated proposal that municipalities are controlled enough and enough, and I will join those who will vote to reject this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u9	Thank you. Mr Rais is now registered in writing for the debate. Mr. Baxa and Mr. Kupka came forward in this order. Mr. Rais has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u10	Thank you. I would like to devote myself to the House of Press 360 and there is one matter. I submit, I believe, that it would be good to order this press to be discussed by the Education Committee, because I think that the draft law between newly fully controlled bodies by the SAO places public universities under the heading. I believe that public universities should not be fully controlled for many reasons. One of them is that, of course, they are controlled through the Ministry of Education, the second reason is that the SAO controls financial suppliers and has the right to tell the recipient, or the school as well. Another reason is that public universities are not organisational units of the state, they do not manage property that is exclusively from the sources of the Czech Republic, because of course a very significant part are funds from foreign research grants and funds. It is also not to be forgotten that there have been basically thirty years' own bodies of higher education institutions, which are board of directors and which function relatively calmly, properly and fulfill the basic functions that have been given them by law. I could also mention accounting, which is subject to audit and the like. In any case, I think that it is worth discussing this problem on the school committee, and we should probably make some proposal to adjust the position of higher education institutions in this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u11	Thank you. There will now be factual comments. First of all, Mrs Válková, after which Mr Klaus. Then we will continue with those who are enrolled in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I, my dear colleagues, would like to support what has been said here and add to the statement that really high public schools are a sui generis entity, where, among other things, they also receive funds from sources such as European grants from their own activities and use them for science, research, education. So I don't think it's possible to subject them to the same regime as other institutions, legal entities that manage state funds. At the same time it would arise, I think it must also be considered, a certain disproportion. Private universities, of course, have to earn money for their teaching and scientific research activities mostly, by overwhelming majority, quite hard through the collection of study fees, but nevertheless in their result they are exempt from this control. And public universities with public funds would now, without any further exceptions, be subject to the control powers of the Supreme Audit Office. I don't think that's the right solution. I myself do not have the optimal solution yet, but as it is proposed, I think that this solution would not be fair to higher public schools and, above all, would deny their special character as academic institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u13	Thank you. Mr Klaus with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u14	Hello. I would respond once more to Mr Rais. I like all Members very much, but I particularly like Members of the Education Committee, of course, so I will not torpedo that we would discuss what you proposed in our school committee. On the other hand, it doesn't make me feel any better. We want to control the last mayor in some village, who also has some independent council of his own and everything, and we're not going to control some huge college just because we're from a school environment? So I'm gonna want her to pull herself out of the gymnasium. I hear it a lot here. The law is stupid, but I'm a fisherman, so at least leave the fishermen out of it. I don't think it's healthy to do that. Let's cancel the whole bill, either control everything or control nothing. But to get out of it by some kind of college argument and not by a small community. For the first good, it makes sense, but we're gonna talk about it on the school committee, and it's gonna work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u15	Thank you. Mr Rais, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u16	I'll respond to my colleague Klaus. Basically, I said that universities are regular, at least twice a year, each school is basically controlled by the SAO through the Ministry of Education, if it controls the SAO there, and then also through subsidies that go from the supplier to the recipient, who is a university. So the controls are going through there. And my point is that we don't essentially just live through checks, because I see it myself in the Rectorate, when a significant part of the capacity is devoted to this. And I think the next thing is to determine the SAO. In my opinion, it is intended to control grant money, not money from abroad, or which has been made more or less by its own activities. So I think I really welcome the fact that we're discussing this on the school committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u17	Thank you. As, of course, written applications to the debate take precedence, there will be a different order. Mr Adamec, Mrs Valachová, and then Mr Baxa, Mr Kupka, will speak in the debate. However, in the meantime, Mrs Kovářová has applied to a point of fact, and she still takes precedence over joining the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u18	I would like to respond to Mr Rais, who said that universities are controlled once or twice a year. So I ask why to include municipalities with extended scope and other municipalities, i.e. municipalities of the first and second types, which can be controlled up to 34 times. That's what happened. And those checks are repeated. So I'm saying that universities that control once, twice a year at most, remove them from that law, from these checks, and so why not remove those municipalities that are burdened with so many checks?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u19	Thank you. Now, Mr Adamec in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u20	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'd say I've already talked about it, but, of course, good control is help. Let's face it, that's the way it is. On the other hand, we do not want to live daily checks. That's what needs to be said. And I understand the interest of the universities here, as it was presented here, but we have the same interest. And as far as I can remember, we said the SAO, why not, but on the other hand, we need to remove further duplications from the controls, such as the financial office and the like. I don't know how many of these checks go to the municipalities, but I have experience with the SAO because the SAO was an office which was set up to control de facto state money. And they went to a fundraiser. I remember one such check that lasted six months. Two officials were there for six months, having an office occupied by our office, with our knowledge, of course, and checking the amount that was, in effect, lower than those two officials of the state on salary. So that's what we need to say to each other, so that the controls are actually good for something, and even that state has been acting a little bit efficiently. Otherwise the SAO in the village, it's nothing new, it's been happening here for many years. I have to say that even then, I remember, during the reign of Mirek Topolánek it was in a government statement, and I then criticized it with the fact that the SAO is actually an office that was set up for another purpose. And I have to say, I was told at the time that the SAO members are so many, that the inspection comes out once every ten years. I kind of don't understand this alibis. I understand that the public, if this plays out as a political point, that's what's happening all the time, let's face it, yes, the SAO wants the municipalities to check. But we who work in these villages know what we do. And we're not afraid of the NKÚ on principle. But on the other hand, let's say what we don't want. We don't want them to control our self-governing activities. And that's very hard to distinguish from the controls. Because if you look at how the SAO controls the state authorities, the ministries, you'll find that these reports sometimes seem scary. And what happened? Has the Ministry improved according to the reports? Did the ministers settle this with each other in the government? Has anyone been instructed, God forbid punished? It didn't happen. It was just that the media was publishing parts of the news as it suited, and it seemed like we were living in a different state than we all thought. So I don't think the SAO is a panacea. That's how it needs to be perceived. And I certainly wouldn't say what version I want to support here, so it doesn't look like I'm just gonna throw it at statutory cities, on the edge, and that we're gonna give it up and we're scared, so no one can ask me to do that. I think it's more important at this point when we make a decision and after the committee hearing, we assess which version is going to be so that duplicates disappear, so that controls are effective. And that means making use of available IT technology today so that controls do not have to be carried out physically and, above all, so that controls do not go round. Each municipality must audit its activities each year. Larger municipalities enter it with private audit companies, which are quite today held by hard legislation. They themselves are interested in making the controls as independent as possible and to really describe the state of the company, the city and the community as it really is. Because, of course, they, too, are then controlled by their superior body to see if they are doing the job well. I have to say, it's already been said that sometimes the government doesn't like the controls, Mr. Prime Minister. I understand that, especially those press releases sometimes provoke different associations, and I would not want it to appear in the municipalities, so that it becomes part of the political struggle against the coalition or the media world against the reality that is in those municipalities. So when I look at the SAO's past, it's not a big deal either. I remember the greatest such seriousness the office had as its first president, or President, Mr. Voleník. And when I look at some of his other bosses like Mr. Dohnal, it wasn't that famous. So let's not take the illusion that the NKÚ will just save us, that it will all be good, that it will be watered by the sun. It's not gonna be like that. So if we are serious about this and we want to hand over the SAO's powers, it is necessary to discuss very closely in the relevant committees what the controls will actually look like. What the methodology of controls will look like. Because really, communities do not just do activities that are profitable. On the contrary, they mostly do activities that are very unprofitable. And the other activities that are subject to the laws of this state must be carried out, and that, of course, is what checks are, and we have an annual audit that simply gives its opinions separately for each year, and according to those opinions, some municipalities may also lose their right to subsidies because they manage the way they manage. So methodology, eliminate duplication, simplify it. And if we include municipalities with extended scope, then we have to say that there are more than 200 of them and the SAO officials are the final number. And it should not be that the SAO will only go somewhere to report and so on, but the controls should have some planned character, so they should cover all the entities that are in the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u21	Thank you. Mrs Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards government proposals, parliamentary proposals and what is at all the aim of these proposals, I would just like to emphasise that the aim is to be a comprehensive system of effective control of the management of public funds. The aim is to match the standard of such control in other European countries and to meet international standards and standards. Nothing more and nothing less. I must say that this debate, which has actually been going on here for several days or has been interrupted and going on, reminds me a lot of all the debates that this House has had in the past and the previous term of office. And I suppose there's something similar from the point of view of warnings and concerns that can also be assumed when discussing in the Senate. The purpose of the changes put forward by the government should be, say, to paint the white spots, which, at this point in time, undoubtedly exist from the perspective of the Supreme Audit Office towards the management of public funds. It was never intended, and it is not in this case that the Supreme Audit Office or the State through it should have the possibility of sticking its nose in the self-governing decisions of local government corporations. There's no such thing. Similarly, the government's strategy to combat corruption envisages that in the case of municipalities and regions, only some self-governing bodies should be targeted. So I assume that the debate in the committees will also be conducted in terms of whether, for example, the so-called first-class communities will fall, they will not fall into this regulation in the future. Likewise, there will undoubtedly be a debate on the effectiveness of the control of the use of public funds as such, because there has been a repeat of what the mayors are really facing, and these are multiple controls that may not have bothered, perhaps they would have survived if, of course, each audit conclusion had not been different and were not against each other. That's the point. I believe that we will be able to find a shift in the effective system of control of the management of public funds in the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to report to the Permanent Commission for the Constitution after consulting my colleagues that I will also propose that the Permanent Commission for the Constitution should also deal with the matter, because it is also about the amendment of the Constitution. Anyway, I support this goal for myself, and I believe that we will be able to find a compromise solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u23	Thank you. Mr Adamec, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u24	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Of course, I was evoked by my colleague, my colleagues. And I'd like to ask what white places he means. I'd really like to know. Because there's so much control going on. And we're really, I'd say closely monitored, and we're doing our own checks, and we have to have an audit. Most of the time, it's either the regional authority for some municipalities, for those larger, we're providing it with a private audit accredited company. So I was wondering about the white spots. I can imagine we're doing this to unite the controls so we can really avoid the duplications and the different conclusions, but I'm really interested in the white spots.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u25	Thank you. Mrs Valachová will respond with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u26	I certainly didn't mean for mayors and mayors to have a lot of free time and say, "Here's a white spot, we're waiting for some extra control, we're still missing one." That's not what I meant. I meant that the Supreme Audit Office now has jurisdiction over some part of the public administration, the management of public funds, and does not have authority over any part. At the same time, the standards that the Supreme Audit Office controls and sets are applicable to all parts of this environment, and all the management of public funds should meet these standards. This does not mean that in connection with the introduction of this system control and, say, the measurement by one meter, some other checks should not fall. To be honest, this was also the reason why the Senate threw a previously approved proposal per head to the House several times and demanded greater interference with the control system in view of the additional supervisory powers of other state authorities, the state administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u27	Thank you. Mr Adamec's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm glad I found out. That these are actually white sites in the SAO's control activity, not white areas in the management of municipalities that do not occur. I'm glad I figured this out. I suppose I'm not wrong. And it's really about what I've been saying all along. So let the SAO check it out, but don't let the others check it out. That's my conclusion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u29	The following is Mrs Valachová's factual point. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u30	I will look forward to the debate in the committees and I am ready for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u31	Mrs Kovářová, with a factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u32	I would like to respond to Mrs Valachová's statement that she has noted the Senate's reservations that the Senate has proposed, at the same time as the draft amendment to the SAO Act, a legislative proposal to eliminate duplication of controls. So I would like to ask the Minister whether the Ministry is considering something similar, because it has actually been said several times here that the checks that go to municipalities and cities are so large that both municipalities and cities deserve this new legislative proposal as a complement to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Baxa in the debate. Mr. Kupka will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I would follow up in my speech on the debate that took place here a few days ago when these several bills began to be discussed. I would like to submit that, in my performance at the time, I appealed particularly to the petitioner from the pirate party to justify why they are submitting their proposals. We haven't seen it yet. We'll see if it comes down to it, and then I'll follow up on it. I would perhaps quote two documents, ladies and gentlemen, before I say my fundamental arguments against this bill, it is the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Act on the Supreme Audit Office itself. The Constitution of the Czech Republic in Title Seven, which concerns territorial self-government, says: "The local authorities are territorial communities of citizens who have the right to self-government. " The next article says: "The higher territorial self-governing unit is independently managed by the council. " Finally, one more quote: "Eminently self-governing entities are public corporations that can own their own property and manage according to their budget. " Or, although I am not a lawyer, I import from the fact that the Constitution of the Czech Republic itself assumes that municipalities and, of course, regions simply have the right to manage the funds that, under other laws, will flow into their budget or which they have. I will, and I mentioned it once before, that the municipalities themselves and the regions themselves are, of course, very strongly controlled through a number of other laws, it has already been mentioned here. And so that maybe we don't create some fog around this provision of possible control by the Supreme Audit Office, which sometimes sounds like it's actually just an extension of some checks and that these Supreme Audit Office controls should focus only on how it is handled legally with the finances of municipalities and cities, so I would like to quote Section 4 of the Supreme Audit Office Act. Here it is said in paragraph 1: "The Supreme Audit Office checks whether the controlled activities comply with the legislation, examines their factual and formal correctness," I ask for your attention now, "and evaluates whether they are effective, economical and efficient." Or, ladies and gentlemen, I am quite logical in saying that any claim that the extension of the Supreme Audit Office's powers to municipalities and regions, in my case to municipalities, is not only aimed at dealing with the Supreme Audit Office's legal framework for dealing with these funds, but simply with the view that the Supreme Audit Office is to assess whether it is being treated - as it says here - economically and efficiently. So let me give you a simple example. Again, I'm not a lawyer, but I've been in government for a long time. For example, I will translate it in the way that our city, the city of Plzeň, annually provides a contribution to its contribution to the Josef Kajetán Tyl Theatre, which is CZK 220 million for this year. Or, as I ask, if the Supreme Audit Office's control comes, then logically, there may be a situation where the controllers ask the raised finger: Does the citizens of Pilsen deserve to put 200 million on the theatre from their budget? Or by analogy: Do the citizens of the city of Pilsen deserve, is the effective way whether the city of Pilsen supports the financing of social services? The answer remains for me to hang in the air, but I will follow up on some of the reports from the Supreme Audit Office that have been quoted here. Whether Mr Zahradník mentioned the environmental control and when the Supreme Audit Office commented that the ten billion crowns had not been spent effectively and that there was no reduction in air pollution in the Czech Republic. Or, in my speech, I am directing myself to the very essence of what I think is the fundamental problem of this expansion of competences. This should not be directed to control the management of funds under the legislation of the Czech Republic. But I just see it, and so far my argument has not been refuted, that, through this amendment, the plaintiffs simply wish to judge, control and ultimately criticize the municipalities for how, in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic, they are completely self-governing their funds. And I think that is the basic problem of these proposals. I, ladies and gentlemen, have studied the explanatory report of both the government's amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act and the pirate's proposal. And I must say, my fears are not scattered in it. In its explanatory report, the Government states that the powers of the Supreme Audit Office should be extended in order to make the system of controls more effective in some way, so that the checks, as Mrs Valachová mentioned earlier, actually cover the entire spectrum of public administration. It's not enough argument for me. It's not. It is simply an argument which, in my view, is not sufficient to make this fundamental change. [[18.00 hours]] I looked at the pirate proposal, and it didn't even say this in the pirate proposal. There is only a general reference to the Lima Convention on how public funds should be controlled. Nothing against this legal convention, but if we are proposing here and we are discussing an amendment here, which is to fundamentally change the way in which municipalities are viewed from the point of view of dealing with their funds, I think it is little. That is why I have called for clear, open reasons to be heard here, which lead the petitioners to these proposals. I think it is very important what Mrs Kovářová mentioned here is, in general, a huge burden on self-government, whether regionals or municipalities, by checks of all kinds. I myself have experienced many examples. I hear in my region, in the Pilsen Region, a number of complaints from mayors of cities and municipalities, who are constantly swamped by dozens of different checks. This is the reason, relevant, serious and in itself, in my opinion, sufficient to disagree with the amendments tabled by the SAO Act. But in my opinion, the second argument is even more important, namely whether we do not want to put the whip on the edge of this amendment to municipalities and cities, that the council, the council, simply those who decide on the management of funds, with money, should also look at whether SAO auditors will assess the so-called efficiency of the funds spent. And I'm really worried about it. I would also like to point out that... I'm the mayor of a city with enough capacity to handle all the controls. I do not want to argue here that SAO inspections burden municipalities and cities that it is necessary to separate staff, premises and so on. It's a serious problem, but I don't think, at least from my point of view, it's the problem of principle. The problem with principle is that these two proposals, both government and pirate, are opened up to Pandořin's box to ensure that the auditors of the Supreme Audit Office, at their discretion, simply determine the municipalities for which they should spend their money. And if, ladies and gentlemen, those who represent the petitioners agree with this, then step forward with this here and say it openly. I'm not really gonna agree with that, I think it's wrong. But let us not, then, by wanting to strengthen the Supreme Audit Office's controls in this way fundamentally for some legally general reasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u35	Thank you. Mr Onderka will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support what my colleague Baxa just said here, because as a longtime mayor of the second largest city, I have similar experience and de facto the same experience. And it needs to be realized that, in addition to what he said in relation to comparing whether the funds designated by the council for his contribution organisation are the right ones or the wrong ones, which I cannot imagine at all that the Supreme Audit Office should decide, then it is necessary to realise that these organisations have several follow-up checks. When I mention the National Theatre in Brno with three scenes, so aside from leading the theatre, the Supervisory Board, which may not be established, but it is established there, it is the Representation of the City of Brno and its supervisory bodies, which are the Department of Control or Audit Committee. That means we already have four organizations that control, and now we're going to have the fifth one. The only thing I see in this problem is that the Supreme Audit Office controls individual ministries today, for example when allocating subsidies as such, and it only gets to the Ministry, and it doesn't get any further. There is a need to look for a way to find the possibility for the Supreme Audit Office to monitor, in a way, a given subsidy from the Ministry, for example, education, so that it can control it to the final recipient, which is a very difficult problem, because it can go through two agencies, it ends up with a private company and one is not surprised. This means that the rules should somehow be created in this way so that the Supreme Audit Office has that option. But there's no way I'm a fan of having another supervisory authority for our fellowship organizations in the municipalities. We've had enough already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u37	Thank you. Now, Mr Kupka in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u38	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will also join those who come forward with arguments against adopting such a law, or at the same time amending the Constitution. Several important things have been said here, including the fact that such an extension of control will, of course, cost quite a large amount of money. At the moment when we decide to spend tens or hundreds of millions of extra crowns, every institution, let alone every company before such a decision, will have a real analysis of what the effect of such spent funds will be. And most importantly, if the current system, as we have it, because, unfortunately, we are not substantially changing it from the point of view of these checks, everything remains preserved, just adding something else, so what is the real negative impact of the current form of all possible controls. If such an analysis has not been carried out and it is not clear what it will actually mean, what the effect will be, which will then naturally also be measured, it is, in my opinion, not responsible for such intervention in the Constitution and for such laws. Fortunately, the system of Czech democracy, the system of the Czech state, is a rather complex organism of weights and contradictions, where every institution and, of course, self-government has its secrets. And, naturally, it is important to respect those protectors, unless we want to be warriors on the waves of anarchism. To do so, it also means respecting how the Constitution recognises the right to self-government, as well as how the related laws then govern the exercise of self-governing roles. And in the municipal law, for example, it is quite precisely stated what kind of control applies to municipalities from the point of view of self-government. The Financial Committee and the Supervisory Committee are committees that are created and must be created because the law imposes it. The financial committee, which controls the management and management of the property of municipalities, i.e. a specific self-governing control mechanism, and also defines precisely the role of the control committee, which is to control, in particular, the implementation of the resolutions of the self-governing authorities. In addition, of course, every municipality, and now I can actually mention universities in general, other institutions, are subject to the control of the subsidy authorities, are subject to the control of the Financial Administration, that all of this can ultimately affect the municipalities, and undoubtedly it does. And as has been said here, if the control is correct, it is of course useful and I would not have thought to fight control that must lead to better management and more efficient management. But at the same time, where there is too much control and the control becomes a separate sense of the existence of these institutions, as here in a few notes between the lines said, it is not okay. Because the purpose of the existence of municipalities and universities is not to face checks. The purpose of these institutions is to perform the service that citizens want them to do and for which they also pay properly. Czech government and Czech public administration suffer from a shortage, I will drag in one foreign word, benchmarking, in other words accurate evaluation and classification of what the effect of public administration performance is. Yes, there's nothing to measure. This cannot be measured when, for example, the self-government decides to sell its buildings to a university for a crown, whether it was an economical or economic solution. And I believe that in the particular case that I mentioned the last time, in the case of Kladno and the sale of those buildings for one crown at a university, the wise decision that resulted in that city, often in immeasurable values, was a much more significant profit. But the way in which control saves money is measurable and is to be measurable. [[18.10 hours]] I appreciate the functioning of the Supreme Audit Office. I would even venture to say that significantly more than the current Prime Minister said. I also try to study the SAO's conclusions in detail as a member of the Audit Committee and my comment does not go against the SAO as an institution. Not even the attitude. However, it is aimed at maintaining the current arrangement of the individual areas in charge of the institutions so that we do not interfere where we really should intervene only very sensitively in the event of the highest need or the highest need. But here we are taking a step that is not supported by a correct and detailed analysis of whether such a step is needed. And if we're really going to spend significant funds, going into the Constitution's amendment and amending laws, then that's what this analysis requires. It was also said last time that because there is simply a lack of time, and all the self-governments, all the institutions, must also have control and have order. All the changes we have on the table, but at the same time, do not bring a whole series of repeated checks and the introduction of some sensible order into how individual institutions are then controlled in many triplicities. I mean, they're just expanding their powers, but they're not solving how to make the control system more effective. I would therefore like to propose, on the basis of all the arguments put forward, the rejection of all three proposals, as we are now having a merged debate on them. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u39	Thank you. I have noted the proposal to reject all three points that we are now dealing with in the merged general debate. Before we proceed with factual remarks, I'll introduce you to two apologies. Mr Radim Fiala apologises from 5:30 p.m. to the end of the session for working reasons, Mrs Monika Červíčková apologises for the Chamber of Deputies' meeting between 18:00 and 19:00. Mr Valenta, Mr Fridrich, will speak with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I originally didn't want to perform at all, but I was a little raised from the chair by my regional colleague Baxa, who spoke here on behalf of a longtime mayor of the city of Pilsen about how the SAO should not decide whether the city would provide 200 million for example for the activities of the theatre ensemble. I don't think so either. But the SAO should take a very good look at the business environment in Pilsen, which is closely linked to the political structures in the same city, under the long-term government of the ODS. And I think this is necessary. If I give a specific example, and I will not go far from the theatre, then more work of CZK 21 million was charged at the new building of the Pilsen Theatre. ODS representatives were opposed to the cashiers, ČSSD representatives, who were in the coalition. And now it would be necessary for the NKÚ to at least tell the SAO what's right with its decision. And I think it would be OK, because Plzeň, and I will not repeat myself, is long known for the long term that the political elites of the city are going to hand some entrepreneurs. And I won't name which one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u41	Thank you. After Mr Fridrich's factual remark, Mr Adamec, Mr Klaus, Mr Baxa will speak with factual remarks - in that order. Mr Fridrich and his point of order. No, so Mr Fridrich will not speak with a factual point. Mr. Adamec is next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u42	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, that is exactly why the SAO should not judge, like this in Pilsen. If you have any problems in the D.A.'s office and you feel like there's some ties, some mob connections, we have other organs for that. That's what you have to call yourself. But I wanted to say something else. I'm going to compare this here to the situation that was here years ago, when the cities were previously natural persons, and it was actually true for them that what was not forbidden by law was allowed. By joining the European Union, we had to adopt a law when municipalities and cities became public corporations and thus European law came in. And who you were here in the past period, there was a desperate attempt by the Members and by all the legislators to bypass the usual price. What the common price has done to unfortunate people who have engaged in the public sphere, how many criminal charges have been made. It seems similar to me at this point because we want to let the NKÚ into something and we don't know what to do at this point. I'd take it that way if the bill was clear and said what the NKÚ can and can't say if there were instructions on how to do it, what they can control and what they can't control. Let's talk about it. But that's not there, and we're taking another risk here that we're just gonna run an avalanche of other things that we're gonna be looking at sadly, and it's gonna be all kinds of cases again. I understand that the SAO is not directly the notifier to law enforcement authorities or, in fact, he does not exercise penalties, but continues to do so. It'll only come after that. And then we'll all start to wonder what was actually being judged, and after years of being dragged into the media, soiled everywhere, dragged in handcuffs, as it happened in Pec to be released, then we'll say, sorry, we're wrong! So let's respect the words and support the rejection!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u43	Thank you. Mr Klaus with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u44	I wanted to respond to Mr Valenta through you. I love Plzeň so much, now I count the minutes when I go after it's over. Half our family is from Pilsen, the rest from Nepomuk. But it often happens here that Mr Dolínek or someone like that will start to say something about Prague and here the Members will start to switch things over. Many of you will rise up and say: solve Prague's problems somewhere else. I find even more bizarre to deal with the problems of the third, fourth or fifth largest city in the House. It's a matter for the Pilsner Council who does or doesn't do what they do. The voters will decide, and it doesn't concern the arguments about the inspection authority that fell here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u45	Thank you. Mr Baxa, with a factual point, Mrs Valachová, also with a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I certainly do not wish to burden the Chamber of Deputies with solving problems or the alleged problems of our city. I would just like to illustrate that an effective opposition policy to uncover these so-called scandals by representatives of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has led to the fact that their number in the council has been smaller and smaller since the parliamentary term. So that, through Mr President, is clear evidence of the truthfulness of your claims. But I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak to Mr Valenta to illustrate to a large extent how some of the petitioners probably feel, and now I am looking at a number of government movements, YES, Social Democrats, a government supporting the Communist Party, pirates, probably representing what the SAO is supposed to do under this amendment of the law. So, if the coalition YES, ČSSD, KSČM was formed in the government ranks, the impression that the Supreme Audit Office should check not only whether it is effectively, efficiently and economically handled with funds, but even that the SAO, as Mr Valenta said, has to decide for the council some specific examples, so I am really asking if you, ladies and gentlemen, are the ones who are presenting it, really not opening the Pandořin box. Because the mist I was talking about is also the opinion of Mr Valenta, one of the Members who supports this government, about how the Supreme Audit Office should not only control the municipalities, but directly tell them what to do with the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u47	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, with a factual point, followed by Mr Valenta. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u48	In the debate, there was such an emotional rhetorical question as to whether the Plzeňák deserved some of their theater, if the Supreme Audit Office would judge it. So, in short, not really, it's not, because it's not his place. [[Voices from the right side of the hall.]] And followed by a speaker who, in turn, proposed the competence of the Supreme Audit Office to resolve disputes between the opposition and the coalition at one town hall. I really don't think so. The Supreme Audit Office won't decide that either. It is as if we would argue that the Supreme Audit Office will decide the dispute between the Minister of Social Democratic and Motivable, if my colleagues forgive me, on the government. So, of course, the Supreme Audit Office does not have such competence and will never have such competence. However, it will, of course, shine on ministries or ministers who do not have pre-established rules on subsidies or do not have the conditions for how and whether an exceptional subsidy can be granted at all, or the Supreme Audit Office will learn that such conditions have been decided additionally. That's what the Supreme Audit Office controls. And it's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u49	Thank you. Mr Valenta's point of fact. After that, President Stanjura, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u50	Thank you for the floor. One more time. I guess I wasn't clear enough. I certainly had no intention of predicting here that the SAO should decide a dispute between two political entities at one town hall. No way. But my point was that the SAO should be able to detect the efficiency of multi-work, because colleague Baxa here argued 200 million for the theatre ensemble. I, by analogy, gave him another opposite case. Let him decide whether the multi-work that arose there was CZK 21 million, if they were really justified. And of course, the final decision is given by the court. But the SAO could give its opinion on that. I guess that's it. I'll talk to my colleague, Baxa. I wouldn't say the SAO is our common enemy, as some of us here claim. Not at all. After all, the SAO is an independent body that should not even burden municipalities by virtue of its obligations. And I don't think that's gonna happen with a rational approach on his part. Probably everything I'd like to add to that. I had something else, but I forgot that now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u51	Thank you. President Stanjura, after him Mr Benda and Mr Kupka - factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u52	I will respond to my colleague Mrs Valachová's speech, which the SAO should or should not have, and what competence it has. So let's see what the current state of affairs is and how it works with current competences. Look at the government materials in eKLEP, how the ministries almost always defend themselves and say: The SAO is wrong. I remember the SAO wrote that we were slowly building highways, that last year they stood up four kilometers, that the Prime Minister said it was a total crap, that it was a politicized office, and that we couldn't take those numbers seriously. So the first thing we could agree on if there are any existing competences that will be done with the results of the checks. Very often they're very formal. I remember the bombing headlines, and no matter who the minister was, the MIT found irregularities in accounting of tens of billions of crowns. Whoever's a little bit budget-oriented finds out it's a lot more than this ministry's annual budget. And then, when you read it in more detail, you don't just read the bombing headline anymore, so you'll find that it was accounted for in the wrong subaccount, because there was no methodology at the time they charged it. Then someone comes in after five years and says it was on the wrong subaccount. There's no damage. That's a methodical cue, but it's a headline. Let's look at the statistics, and I'd like to ask the petitioner, the SAO's criminal report lasted and how it turned out. I think we've been able to evaluate this in some way since the SAO's been working. And I remember from the government when the SAO report came in, which controlled psychiatric care in the Czech Republic. Basically, they didn't find anything, maybe some twenty crowns somewhere, but at the same time, he accused the SAO of having no concept of developing psychiatric care. But that's a purely political attitude. This has nothing to do with control. Let us focus on fulfilling the existing competences and not giving more. And it is not as black and white in those communities as simple as Mrs Valachová said. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u53	Thank you. Mr Benda, Mr Kupka after him. I've turned the timer on, Mr. Ambassador. I'll give you extra time. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u54	Mr Vice-President, I will certainly not use it at all. Just a little bit convinced me that I was coming here, Mr Valenta, who said here: then the court has to decide, but in the meantime, the NKÚ could give some opinion. And I wonder what such an opinion is good for. Besides arguing about him in the village, what good is he doing? The things to be done in the state are to be done to improve something, to be good for something, to work somehow. My previous speaker, Mr. Stanjura, pointed out here. Even today, in the state of the SAO, he fails to fulfil the roles that were once given to him by this House in some way in those first assignments. That was supposed to be the role of intelligence in terms of reporting on what's going on inside funding within the government, for this House to know - is it worth giving the Minister of Transport billions on the highway, or is it not worth it if he can't spend it anyway? We're not following it anyway. The government doesn't give a shit. And the Chamber of Deputies has a famous inspection committee, but it is devoted to laughing or praising someone at most. Have we ever adjusted the budget that we said - we will not give this resort money because the SAO warns us that it operates inefficiently? Never. Then let's not let him into other positions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u55	Thank you. Mr Kupka with a point of fact. We're in factual notes according to login. Please, Mr. Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u56	Two brief notes. In order for the control to be effective, its conclusions should also be clear as soon as possible in order to be able to correct processes or to achieve some changes in procedures based on those findings. Even in the case of existing practice, the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office are often discussed in the Audit Committee of the Chamber of Deputies after a few years, when the real impact, of course, has significant limits. So I am calling clearly - if control, so that it can be effective and can really serve those authorities. The second very substantive comment on Mrs Valachová's contribution. I will quote from Section 4 of the SAO Act: "The Authority checks whether the controlled activities comply with the legislation, examines their factual and formal correctness and evaluates whether they are effective, economical and efficient. " It means that in its SAO law, contrary to what we talked about in the case of self-government, it has a direct competence, even an obligation to assess whether the decision taken by the SAO is effective, whether it is economical and effective. But in the case of the decision-making of the authorities, it is not possible in many cases, because that purpose is defined by the representatives, whether, in this regard, the decision is made on the basis of their choice and on the basis of the council's organisation. I would repeat if I mentioned the case of the sale of specific buildings to a university in the city or the promotion of local theatres or activities that are not profitable cannot be profitable, and yet municipalities and cities must support them if they want to make sense of their existence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u57	Now, the rapporteur, Kubíček, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yours through Marek Benda. So I'm gonna take a little piss out of what he does and doesn't do the inspection committee and whether he's petting or angry with someone. But just remember. Everyone's been on their cell phones, and thanks to the inspection committee, you've been calling half the time since last term. Just remember Hospital Na Homolce, when individual audits and criminal reports were carried out in the context of medical Holte management, etc. I think the inspection committee is doing a good job. It's an apolitical organ. You have your colleagues there, so ask them how he works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u59	Thank you. Mr Válek, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u60	I don't think we're gonna move on. I consider the activities of the SAO to be very useful and I would like to respond to the performance of some of my previous speakers. I always thought I knew what the NKÚ was doing. I was easily confused by the SAO's inspection at the Brno University Hospital, where some of the questions I didn't quite understand if I had any idea what he was doing and if the SAO knows what he was doing. Now that I've heard the definition of what the SAO is actually doing, I'd like to know how the SAO would judge the effectiveness of various types of scholarships at individual faculties of the university, why one has higher, one lower. If it's beneficial, it's really effective according to the rules and principles as defined. That means, for me, it would help terribly in the decision-making process and then in the vote on the law if it were to define in some way clearly and precisely what the SAO's activities are and what should I imagine under the general terms. I have no idea what the SAO is doing, and what we, the Chamber of Deputies, are imagining from the SAO that it should do. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u61	Have a good night. I'm just gonna get my bearings fast. As I see it, we don't even have any... Oh, well, one more de facto came up here. I wanted to end the debate, but I won't do it yet. Member Ivan Adamec. You have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u62	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, it has now become quite clear here. I don't think most of us here and especially those who present it have any idea what the SAO's going to do in these municipalities and regions. And that's the problem why we're here with doubts about why we don't want to do this. After the experience that each of us has with the Audit Office, we simply perceive that what is being presented here to approve here is completely inadequate, because it does not really imply how self-governing activities will be separated from these SAO controls. I don't think it can be done by law, because we would have to change the Constitution significantly and the position of the SAO itself. And I don't think that's in these proposals at all. So no one here has any idea how these checks are going to go. But we all have experience with the SAO, and now I don't mean any harm, it's just a state control office that controls what he's always had, state money, and now we're gonna give him power over self-government. And I see that as a very bad act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u63	Thank you. Now I don't see another application. Next. Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u64	So to remind ourselves what the SAO is actually doing, how the government is reacting, I mean the report from last week when the SAO criticized the Financial Administration procedure. [[Unintelligible]] sufficient analysis, however, requires new and additional data from tax payers. I think it's serious news. What was the reaction of the government, the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration? It's completely stupid, none of it's true. So what's the point of finding these days when those who say to extend powers aren't willing to accept the Supreme Audit Office's audit findings? It's too škoda the Treasury Secretary isn't here to comment on that. She also commented on it publicly. Then what's the point? And to the communal level. There are many colleagues and colleagues who have the experience. And I am very afraid that the SAO reports will become part of the political struggle. 6,250 municipalities. How often can control come somewhere? How can it be effective? And a classic case of efficient use of money, very simple for Mrs Valachová. Very often gyms are rented in schools from the decision-maker at symbolic prices, which do not cover even the costs that are spent, that they are lit up and drowning in the gym. The city's representative has decided to support this because he wants to support the healthy lifestyle of his children in his community. And it's economic? Well, it's not economic. Is that right? It is if the council decides. What will the SAO investigate? How will it examine the effectiveness, efficiency and efficiency of this high political decision of a particular council? The fact that the SAO is to examine the state money that will come to the village is true today. We don't need a novel for that. And that's right. Because if there is any subsidy from the state, let the SAO examine whether it was used in accordance with the given purpose. But otherwise, there's no point. [[Time!]] It is not possible that it was two minutes, Mr President. I don't think they were running at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u65	So I didn't press it. All right, I'll take that as a joke. Okay. But if you have a request to recheck the time machine... [[No.]] Okay. Well, I don't have another application here, so if I may, I'm ending the merged general debate. So now I'm asking for the final words. I will ask whether Mr Kubíček, Minister Kněžínek or Mr Černohorský are interested in the final word. Everyone. Well, I guess I'll ask in some order. Point by point, of course. Mr Černohorský should be the last to go, but on that first point either Mr Kubíček or Minister Kněžínek. So, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u66	I will only react very briefly to some of the things that have been said here. I feel that the proposal has remained misunderstood on some points and maybe not read because many of the comments that have been made here are, in fact, either explained in the explanatory report or reflected directly in the normative text. So the question of how much control by the Supreme Audit Office will cost public budgets is the explanatory memorandum and basically says that the state budget is nothing. As far as other public budgets are concerned, neither does anything. Just for your idea, in 2015, 2016 and 2017 there were 21 checks on municipalities, respectively. 21 municipalities were controlled. There was a question as to whether we had statistics on how many criminal charges were made. We do. Zero. No criminal charges were filed by the SAO during this period. Is it true that 14 percent, specifically six (?), the case has been referred to the Financial Authority in order to deal with it further, where appropriate, in terms of possible breach of budgetary discipline. There have also been reservations regarding the control of the economy of the management of the property of municipalities and regions. It is true that the provisions of § 4 para. One, quoted several times here, actually says that economics should also be controlled. However, it is good to read the proposals in light of what is being proposed. Because the proposal explicitly complements the special rule in § 4 para. 2 where it is said that, in the case of, inter alia, municipalities and regions, only compliance with the legislation is controlled. If we read this in the context of the recently amended § 38 para. 1 of the municipal law, so we learn that contrary to the principle of economy, and therefore illegal, there is no such treatment, which follows the important interest of the municipality and is duly justified. This means that the fear that economy will be controlled and even where the municipality should have invested, or where the region should have invested its funds, is simply odd and does not correspond to the text of the proposal if we read it in the context of other related legislation. At the same time, it was said that 6,250 municipalities will be controlled plus minus. There is no such thing in either of these proposals. In the case of the government, we are talking about 200 municipalities, in the case of the pirate even less. Thus, logically, we talk about larger, the largest municipalities, usually cities in the Czech Republic. As far as other controls are concerned, I would just like to say that I am very excited, and I am very much asking that the motion be released on the committee, I am very much looking forward to the debate that we are going to have there. And, of course, I do not prevent the debate on committees from opening up to how to deal with the duplications of controls that are not really related to the activities of the Supreme Audit Office. But I understand that's the problem. Maybe not the frequency of checks, but the fact that the conclusions sometimes break up. But I firmly believe that we can find an appropriate solution through serious debate. I guess that's it for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u67	Thank you. Now perhaps Mr Kubíček, because you are rapporteur for all three prints, and the last two are Mr Černohorský. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I listened with interest to this debate. I've only got a few points to make. The first is that we have a unique opportunity in some way to check the system of checks and audits taking place throughout the territory of the Czech Republic and to prevent certain things. We agreed that we would invite the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, representatives of the Senate, representatives of the Chamber of Deputies and representatives of the SMO Czech Republic to negotiate this law or this amendment of the law. I did audit work in private companies. And we know that the auditor always guaranteed the audit statement, and it wasn't completely normal for another auditor to actually do the company again and make a different statement. I think we understand. And this must be the aim that, if the certified audit authority, the audit authority, has carried out an inspection, the SAO should not even control its activities, it should take that conclusion completely into account. [[18.40 hours]] Another thing that is, and I agree with the fact that it is not clearly clarified, is the methodology for carrying out individual checks, whether from the Ministry of Finance or financial institutions. Some of the SAO's conclusions also point out that the individual conclusions are not based on the same conditions, the same data and the same requirements of each audit authority. That's true, but that's what I think right now is the right place to open it, put it in committee for discussion. At the same time, I support the discussion in the school committee because I understand some concern from universities and must specify what will be possible, what will not be possible. It's probably not the only problem, but let's set up a system and let's talk about the system. I hereby ask you to release me to the first reading, I did not ask for any shortening of the dates, and I invite individual representatives to the discussion, and I will also be happy if the SAO prepares a panel where we can comment on how it wants to carry out the checks, and where individual representatives of the government will be able to give their suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u69	Thank you. And lastly, then, Mr Cernohorsky. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u70	So, honourable Members, let me answer some of the questions that have been raised here at the end of the discussion, namely, my fellow Member, Mr Baxa, who has spoken here, or has been introducing to us, as plaintiffs, that all the municipalities are miserable and that there is no supervision over them and that we should have said something like that. I completely disagree with this. The proposal to extend the powers of the Supreme Audit Office is one of the means to implement the objective of restoring public finances and achieving the balance of public budgets, which are undoubtedly fundamental and general attributes of social interest at present. The SAO's activities, as has already been said here, do not result in remedying the deficiencies found, since they are an authority without executive powers. The SAO is a search authority whose task is to draw attention to existing problems. His work thus represents a significant feedback that serves the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Government, and possibly. other public authorities, including local authorities, including citizens as an information source, whether laws are respected in the management of public funds. The assessment of its findings is thus an important basis for the possible adoption of measures, either by the legislature or by executive bodies, aimed at improving the situation in the area. The SAO signals on negative findings in the public finance sector are currently most desirable for their recovery. The proposed bill thus responds to the current course of adoption of legislative proposals, which was aimed at strengthening the powers of the Supreme Audit Office in the past, but was not adopted. During the last parliamentary term, two laws were discussed amending Law No. 1/1993 Coll., the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and the Act on the Supreme Audit Office, which carried out the proposed amendment of the Constitution. Those bills were finally not adopted, as already mentioned. The newly proposed amendment to the Constitution is presented at the same time as the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Audit Office, and both of these proposals reflect the course of the legislative process and discussions held within the Parliament of the Czech Republic over the aforementioned Houses of Press, as well as the comments of the Legislative Council of the Government. One of the reasons which led the previous government to submit the bill was the information from the Annual Reports of the Security Information Service. They inform that both regions, large cities, municipalities, state, regional and urban companies are affected by clientelism. In companies owned by the State, according to the Security Information Service, systematic enrichment occurs due to close links between management and state representatives in supervisory boards that do not fulfil their control function. I would also like to mention the example from practice, as my esteemed colleague, Mr Baxa, has called upon me here, who has put it in my mouth, that I do not trust the elected authorities of municipalities, councils and councils. So this will not be an example from Prague, as everyone probably hoped, but an example from the Moravian-Silesian region. The case, which clearly proves the need for a politically independent control body, is called. Heir's case. As you can see, this is a case in which the criminal activity consisted of a person standing outside the official city structure on the basis of his influence obtained through contacts with local local and regional policies having an impact on the operation of commercial companies and city contribution organisations - which I would also like to justify, through Mr Mračková's President, the inclusion of contribution organisations in the bill in question. It cannot be said that all self-governments are miserable, but it cannot be said that all self-governments are economically, efficiently and effectively managed. So let me conclude by explaining these concepts in more detail. Economics is to minimise expenditure while respecting the objective set by the Council or the Council. It is also a reduction of operating costs over the life cycle. Efficiency is such an activity where outputs from given sources are maximized or when output with a minimum of resources is achieved while maintaining the quality of outputs. It is therefore a return on the costs incurred by the municipalities. Effectiveness means that the objectives set have been met and they have the expected impacts. In the past, therefore, there have been checks in higher education institutions. This is specifically a response to Mr Vácha, if I am not mistaken, with the fact that in the past several universities have been controlled by the operational programme of science and research for innovation. Directly in universities, no significant errors were found, only some minor administrative matters, but it was pointed out to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports that by very frequent changes in the documentation of the programme it made it difficult for beneficiaries to focus on the rules for drawing subsidies, thus increasing the administrative burden for beneficiaries of funds and for ministry officials themselves. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports issued 7 versions of the Applicant's Guide, 15 versions of the rules for selecting suppliers and 38 methodological guidelines by August 2014. Based on this feedback from the Supreme Audit Office, corrective measures have been set up at the Ministry, which has transferred these findings back to the operational programme of research, development and innovation. This means that the Supreme Audit Office is to check and re-advise some future measures to ensure that future programmes are effective and that unnecessary bureaucracy may be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-009-902.u71	So those were the final words. So now we're going to open the individual points back, and then we're going to go to the point.
