ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u1	6. Members of Martin Kupka, Ondřej Profant, Barbora Kořanová, Jiří Běhounek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 200/1994 Coll., on Land surveying and amending and supplementing certain laws related to its implementation, as amended, Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations (Construction Act), as amended, and other related laws /house print 525/ - Second reading Mr Martin Kupka, to whom I hereby give the floor, shall give the motion in favour of the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u2	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the fundamental carrier of this change is indeed the amendment to the Law on Land surveying and the amendment to the Construction Act. The aim is to create a digital technical map as a basis for builders, but also for investors, for mayors of cities and municipalities, for all who move, decide on it and have to manage it. The aim is really to contribute to a significant simplification of the entire building permit process so that officials at individual offices can, in the end, quickly look into the digital technical map and evaluate what they have to do with, what they can decide in that territory and what the decision should look like. The digital technical map currently serves in several cities and municipalities. It serves very well as a useful tool in many cities and municipalities. In addition to the basic technical networks where it is possible to track where the gas leads, where the electricity leads, where the networks of modern telecommunications networks lead, and of course it is possible to find other layers, which are already complemented by cities and municipalities themselves, such as the network of collection points, etc., or a passport of communications or a pasport of greenery. All this then offers specific applications. And what we are going to do is create a digital technical map as a source of current information about the territory, so that even for designers it is very easy for the future in the place where their construction is headed, where their intention is, then the work is placed and easier to pass through the entire process of building management. With the digital technical map being prepared within a specially established working group on the ground of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. A number of Members have joined it. At the same time, professional organizations, professional institutions, representatives of individual departments and of course also the Czech office of survey and cadastral were also working on the digital technical map and legal basis. With the fact that it is the first point and the first pillar of the entire complex design of the electronicisation of the building process. I will then allow myself to read in a detailed debate a comprehensive amendment which brings all the other important steps of the electronicisation of the building process, on the one hand, the construction portal as a communication environment through which it will be possible to request a building permit, a zoning decision, etc., and at the same time through the construction portal it will be possible to request further comments from the authorities and even from network managers. It will therefore be a very useful tool for linking information, for submitting applications in the form of methodologically uniform electronic forms, while allowing the portal of the builder to obtain information on individual decisions, opinions and, at the same time, the authorities themselves will enable each other to see each other, coordinate their procedure and shorten through the portal of the builder the necessary time limits for the statement needed for the decision. Thus, in addition to the digital technical map as one of the pillars, a comprehensive amendment will effectively enable the creation of a portal of the builder and other information systems - an information system for the recording of territorial and construction processes, i.e. a data repository, where it will then be possible to trace individual decisions in time from the initial request through individual opinions to the building permit itself and, of course, a co-authorising decision. And it will be possible to monitor in time how the individual decisions are being added through the builder's portal. Another important information system for which we are creating legislative support is the information system for registering electronic documentation, i.e. the data repository of project documentation, where without it, without long-term designers working through computer technology and planning constructions, they will be able to directly store their project documentation. It will fall out of the transfer of large files, the delay will fall, for example, at the moment when anyone is referring against the decision. This is therefore a significant ease and, at the same time, an opportunity to closely monitor the development of the adaptation of the documentation itself. A matter which has been often causing problems at the moment; When new and new versions were made in that paper form, it was often difficult to trace which is the final and correct. The management of the project documentation with the corresponding time stamps in electronic form will significantly facilitate orientation in the final valid version of the project documentation. Another pillar is the national geoportal of spatial planning, which should allow digital technical maps to be traced to those layers, where gas leads through which electricity networks lead, where telecommunications lead, to add data on spatial planning, i.e. regulation of spatial plans, so that it is clear what can be built in that place from the point of view of the function of the construction itself. Finally, the last information system is the registration of the birth number of the building. It is another important step towards the fact that, as I have mentioned, individual decisions of the authorities concerned, it will be possible to monitor the entire fate of the construction work from the initial application for building permits through the housewarming process to the very life of the building itself and, for many years, to find out what all decisions have been made on this issue and what changes have been made in the state administration's decision-making process. In addition, the registration of the building's birth number will be possible even in the future at the moment when the design in the BIM 3D projection method will be used for several constructions, as well as for the administration of the construction itself, it will have a clear identification number from that point on which it will be possible to search for its transformation and its final effect. What is important to understand the whole change is that it is a clear path in the shortest possible time to shorten the deadlines for building permits, the whole process, which unfortunately takes 246 days in the Czech Republic today on average. We have found ourselves at a very unfavorable 157th place among 200 countries under surveillance, we have been stationed behind such countries as Burkina Faso or Côte d'Ivoire, Belarus and others. This is a matter that we need to catch up in order to then be able to trust the words of all the electoral programmes about the need to build motorways, the road network quickly in the Czech Republic and how important public buildings need to be built much faster than this is happening today. We are in a situation where often the administrative preparation of the construction takes longer than the construction itself. After all, this is a fundamental reason for something to change in the Czech laws, to turn the negative trend, when so far in recent years the length of the construction proceedings has only extended. [[15.40 hours]] It is also a way of methodically simplifying the entire process of building proceedings, uniting it across the Czech Republic, so that different applications for building permits do not arise at individual construction offices, but to anchor the central possibility, the portal of the builder, the uniform form of applications and the individual processes involved. It is a way to cover the process electronically in the 21st century in a modern way: not to build unnecessarily some stone new office, but to take an electronic modern route and to allow the individual authorities to see each other in the process itself, to better communicate and coordinate their actions. It's a way to accelerate and simplify. It is a path that is offered, the result of the work of individual people from ministries, expert working groups and, of course, also from the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that, in the form presented, it is already in itself a flash for better times, it means a clear acceleration, a simplification of the building process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u3	Thank you. And before we go any further, I'll read the apologies received by the Prime Minister of the House. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes today within 19 hours and between 15.30 and 19.00 for family reasons, Mr Bžoch. I am now saying that, at first reading, we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 525/2 and 525/3. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Ivan Bartoš, the Chairman of the Committee, to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will no longer speak to the substance of this law. I think that an exhaustive overview of what this law addresses has been made here by Mr Martin Kupka in his opening speech. The law had a similar trajectory to the previous law that we talked about - banking identity. I am glad that, with the support of the ANO and club presidents here, we are able to discuss these laws so that we can meet the deadlines that we have given ourselves indeed gallows. The discussion of this bill on the committee - the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development discussed the House's press at its 29th meeting on 14 November. Following the hearing of the report and the justification for the comprehensive amendment by Mr Martin Kupka and the subsequent debate, the committee adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve a comprehensive amendment adopted in accordance with the resolution of the committee at your disposal as the House Press, as already said 525/3. Furthermore, according to the preliminary agreement for this press in the detailed debate, we will also propose a shortening or a vote to shorten the deadline between second and third readings from those fourteen days to seven days. We have the opportunity to discuss this law in the third reading again on the Public Administration Committee this Thursday. I'd probably end my intelligence report with this. Only here Mr Kupka said that he would sign up for a comprehensive amendment. I am not sure if it is necessary to do this in a detailed debate, because the comprehensive amendment is part of the committee resolution, but we are dealing with this where appropriate in a detailed debate. However, this comprehensive amendment, as in previous banking identity legislation, is understood and is, in the committee resolution, the bearer of this legislative change as the key one, therefore the amendments should already be loaded to this amendment. The House may also vote on this in a detailed debate, but I do not think that is necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u5	Thank you for the rapporteur's word. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Ondřej Profant has joined. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u6	Good afternoon. I think that this proposal has already been presented in very detail by Mr Martin Kupka. We very much welcome the emergence of a digital technical map that really has the potential to affect the speed of building management, which is one of the things that notoriously troubles our citizens. So I would just like to stress that the current text, as well as the text of the amendment, is just the first step so far, and we must not forget that we will have to work on this further, at all levels, both in the implementation of the digital technical maps on the edges and in the further shift of legislation, so that all statements and opinions become automated or taken automatically from those maps that arise. And it's not obvious yet, and it's gonna be another job. We even approved the accompanying resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development for this. So I hope this goes smoothly. I have prepared two amendments to this proposal. The first, which is under number 3645, addresses all information that is public in the digital technical map, is also open data under Law 106. This is merely a minor technique, so that we really have the concerted outputs produced by our public administration, they are further usable. This can be very useful for different designers, etc., who do not need to work with the map as an image, but need to work with really open data, which they can import into their software, in which they work etc. I think there is nothing questionable about this amendment, and it only gives clearer guidance to those regions and the ministry on how to implement it really, which is the biggest problem with the digitalisation things, the implementation. The second amendment 3643 repeals the non-public part of the digital technical map portal. It may seem that some information needs to be kept secret, but such information will not even get into the digital technical map as regards the things that police, intelligence, military, etc. will require. That's not gonna get in there now. The non-public part is just something that some group has dug up, and it's not really clear what it's for. I would like to point out that the digital technical map has been operating in Prague for several years, more than three years, and has only a public part. And it doesn't cause any trouble. I think Prague is developing economically and even network managers have no problem with it. Why do I suggest this? First of all, because every map I think is to be complete, which is very important. And secondly, because it will make the implementation of these systems significantly cheaper. I know there is talk here that funds from the European Union will probably be used for this, but that is also public money. And I don't think it's necessary to complicate systems where it's not strictly necessary. And when we wonder again why there are articles in the paper about how the systems are overpriced, or how the regions are gonna complain that they don't have the money for it, like Pardubice, who wrote us yesterday, this is the road. Let's cut back on the specs, let's not think of things that just add unnecessary complexity, unjustified, and it'll be a lot easier. The government is already giving 8.5 billion. A year for IT, and I think that's inappropriate. So I will read these two amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u7	I thank Mr Ondřej Profant. Who else in the general debate? If I do not see anyone, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It is not from Mr Martin Kupka, nor is there any interest in the final word from the rapporteur. I am opening the debate in detail. The rapporteur is the first rapporteur to do this, this time in the role of the appellant in a detailed debate. A colleague Profant and Martin Kupka will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to sign up for the proposal, or, respectively, to make a proposal that I have already announced in the general debate, and that is to shorten the time of discussion between second and third reading from 14 days to those 7 days, which was also the agreement between the different clubs when we were preparing this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u9	Thank you. Now, Mr Ondřej Profant in a detailed debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u10	I am signing up for two amendments. It's 3643 and the second is 3645. I introduced both of them in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u11	Thank you. Now, Mr Martin Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u12	I will also take the liberty of signing up for two amendments. The first one is listed under number 3785 in the system. This is an amendment, which will, in fact, only take the course of legislative technical adjustments and adjustments to the jurisdiction of the construction offices in the event of criminal proceedings. The second amendment has number 3786 and adds to the digital technical map as another of the important data an indication of the plans for the implementation of changes in transport and technical infrastructure in the territory. It is an answer to the request of network managers, but also, for example, the Road and Motorway Directorate and Railway Infrastructure Administration, so that the digital technical map includes the outlook, intent, information about the plans to be implemented in that territory in the future, so that all who will receive information from the digital technical map learn what ŘSD or SŽDC are planning there or any other infrastructure manager.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u13	Thank you, Mr Kupek. Who else in the detailed debate? If no one, I will end the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. We have one motion for a vote here, and that is a shortening of the deadline for third reading, between second and third reading, as read by the rapporteur. So we're going to vote on him. [[Reporter Bartoš.]] Is the rapporteur still reporting with the final word? [[Yes.]] Okay. Okay, I'm gonna go ahead and ask my colleagues to show up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to talk about how we talked here, and I was still consulting with legislation - so we didn't really have to vote on it. The comprehensive amendment, which was approved in the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, is the main factor. And I just wanted to sum up that four amendments were made to this comprehensive amendment. Two of them are from Mr Kupka. It's 3785, it's legislative technical changes, and 3786, it's an extension of those intentions, if there's any prospect of some network planning, so that this is already included in the technical map. And then there are two amendments from Mr Ondřej Profant, Mr 3643 and Mr 3645. These relate to the openness of data and access to the public part of the digital technical map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-002-006.u15	Thank you. I will not argue about this if you insist in the debate that we vote on this, because that is actually the only proposal that is being tabled by amendments. But I'll have it voted. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. For those arriving, I repeat that in voting number 12, we will vote on the rapporteur's proposal, which is in accordance with Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 to shorten the period between second and third reading to seven days. Initiating vote number 12. I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the deadline between second and third readings. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 12. Of the present 135, for 122, against no one. The motion was accepted. I can end the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the representatives of the appellants, Mr Kupek, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish my point. Before we proceed with the next item, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Vice-President Tomáš Hanzel, who apologizes from 16 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work. The next item is:
