ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u1	204. Government bill amending Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on veterinary care and amending certain related laws (veterinary law), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended / House print 435/ - third reading The item was interrupted on 27 September at the 34th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and the debate at the third reading was not closed. So I am asking Minister Miroslav Toman - prosit, Minister - and rapporteur for the guarantee committee, which is the agricultural committee, Mr Pavel Kováčik. I ask if they are interested in speaking before the debate continues. It's not like that. So I would remind you that the amendments are in the Houses of Press 435/3, which was delivered on 12 September 2019, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 435/4. So we will now continue with the debate in which Members of Marian Jurečka and Mr Bendl are joined. Mr Jurečka is excused, so please Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u2	Good day, Mr President, fellow Members, Minister. Let me once again comment on the Government's draft veterinary law, which the Chamber of Deputies has been discussing for quite a long time since spring this year. For the first time, it was discussed by the Agricultural Committee at some point in April, considering how extensive and important this is a standard. We as the Czech Republic are obliged to implement a number of regulations, which I will not read here, because we would have been here for quite a long time, and we should implement them by about mid-December of this year, which we will obviously be able to do. The law - those of you who paid attention to him and are interested in the situation around him...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u3	I understand you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask your colleagues for more peace, especially in the vicinity of the speaker's table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u4	Yes, thank you. I would only ask on the left if it could be pacified a little bit, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u5	I'll ask the members of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u6	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vice-President. This law has links to a number of others: the Food Act - a rather complex legislative standard that we will soon be dealing with; the law of hunting; Act on animal cruelty; breeding law. It even interferes with the law on municipalities and the Regional Law, as it mentions some, or regulates certain obligations in connection with the protection against infectious animal diseases and certain competences relating to abused animals. And there are also a lot of bureaucratic things in that law that we have been complaining about in agriculture for a long time. I would like to quote from the explanatory memorandum, i.e. only a minor part, which states: This law introduces regulations on official controls, provides a general and comprehensive adjustment of official controls and other official activities which are still contained in several directly applicable regulations and directives of the European Union; it applies to all inspection bodies carrying out official controls carried out in order to verify compliance with the rules laid down in European Union rules or national rules in the areas defined by Article 1 (2). This means, as regards food and food safety, genetically modified organisms, feed and feed safety, animal health requirements, animal by-products, etc., etc., animal welfare, plant protection, organic production, labelling of protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications, traditional specialities guaranteed. The Regulation also applies to official controls of imports and exports in the areas mentioned above. As a person who has also come into contact with this law as an agricultural entrepreneur in practice, I must also point out some of the paradoxes that legislation brings in connection with veterinary law. One of the things, one of the hundreds of things I would like to present here, is that, for example, the law says that we should have a so-called contingency plan as a small agriculture. I don't know if any of you have ever done business in agriculture and physically did all the paperwork involved, but the veterinary administration is checking the contingency plan. For your idea, it's one paper on which you have to write a phone number to the veterinary administration, a phone number to the county office, a phone number to the fire department, a phone number to the police. And you have to take the completed form to the State Veterinary Administration, and they'll give you the appropriate stamp on it, and you've fulfilled the obligation to have an emergency plan. This means that telephone numbers that either teach primary school pupils in the fourth or fifth grade, that means that they call an ambulance or the police, you have to bring them to the State Veterinary Administration to confirm that you know the number. And then you have to have vet numbers there, which is also redundant, with which every farmer or cattle farmer is basically working around the clock and is able to memorize it for you. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] We also have to keep so-called pastoral diaries under these laws, which means every day to write down where I sent sheep, goats or horses to which part of the pasture I had changed. I don't know what it's good for. Perhaps it would be worth it to get rid of these responsibilities on an ongoing basis. As well...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u7	I understand you, Mr Member, and once again I would like to call on Members from all parts of the hall, if they are interested in anything other than the press currently under discussion to discuss it in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u8	I understand some people don't care. However, this is a standard for the lives of people in the countryside and farmers, which we have a duty to discuss here. So please just bear with me. I'm not gonna be super long. I could be a lot longer than I'm gonna be. We must have a feed log. To give you an idea, we have to write down every day how much your horses have consumed and how much... how to put it. We also need to record a number of carcases. That means writing down things like this so that we can be controlled. I don't know what this kind of record is really for, but it exists. We must have another log of all the activities we carry out in meadows, fields and pastures, which I also do not consider to be completely correct, because if we really do absolutely everything, the farmer spends two or three hours every day just by writing in a diary or sending information to different government authorities. And I'm not even talking about the fact that there's a law that applies to statistics, but I'll probably say that sometime when we discuss this law. The explanatory memorandum of the draft government law states that the draft law does not foresee economic and financial implications for the state budget and other public budgets. Well. I will try to prove to you by quoting from the explanatory report that it is not so, that the bill assumes economic and financial implications for the state budget, and it is even mentioned in the report, so there are such contradictions and I quote them. [[10.20 hours]] It says here: As regards the clarification and addition of the content of the emergency veterinary measures imposed by the veterinary authorities and the subsequent clarification of the reimbursement of costs and losses incurred as a result of the implementation of the emergency veterinary measures, these proposed modifications will not have effects on the State budget or on other public budgets. - Where - Funds for reimbursement of costs and losses under veterinary law are allocated in Chapter 329-MAZE in Part 1) Support for the agrifood complex part B) Subsidy and other expenditure for agriculture in total point. (a) Property damage - Act on Veterinary Care. The amount allocated for the calendar year shall be based on a qualified estimate of the need for funds to address cost and loss compensation. However, the real need for funds depends on the current disease situation in the Czech Republic in a given calendar year. So that's a little contrary to what the government's reasoning here says that the bill doesn't foresee economic and financial implications for the state budget and other public budgets, because it then states otherwise. At the same time, in Section 55a, it is proposed to re-establish the competence of the Region, which corresponds to the provisions in Section 46e of the Veterinary Act concerning municipalities. The regions, like the municipalities, were newly involved in ensuring exceptional veterinary measures, in the territory of the region or part thereof, if they cross the territorial territory of the municipality. The aim of the supplement is to facilitate the implementation of the exceptional veterinary measures imposed in practice. Many of us have been confronted with practical situations such as these. on the issue of horse abuse, where in the end the solution and financial implications for the resolution of the situation fell at the expense of municipal budgets. So there are no financial implications for the state budget and other public budgets. And that these were often costs that were almost deadly to the village! I remember arguing with the Central Bohemia Region versus the village somewhere in Benešov region, I suspect it was hundreds of thousands of crowns, because the owner did not want to care for the abused horse, he did not care and it was necessary to ensure not only veterinary treatment, but of course also normal operation, feeding etc., which, given how long the whole situation had been dragged, meant only further increases in costs, which no one had seen in practice. Therefore, even in the Act on Abuse, which is linked to the veterinary law, I am certainly aware that I will draw attention to the fact that the state has, as such, a network to deal with abused smaller animals, cats, dogs etc., because it is able to solve the non-Rudovic question where to go with them, but in horses, large cattle we do not have the issue resolved, actually veterinarians do not have a chance many times, what with the amount of it etc., and I think it is a great debt to the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture that this matter has not yet been corrected. Likewise, the government bill deals with African plague-related costs. So, in turn, it does not apply that the bill does not have an impact on the state budget and on other public budgets. And I will quote: In connection with the historically first occurrence of a dangerous disease, African swine fever, in the Czech Republic in June 2017, the Ministry of Agriculture was granted reimbursement of costs and losses of CZK 23 581 880 in accordance with the relevant provisions of the veterinary law on 31 July 2018. The refund was granted from the amount allocated for the calendar year in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. Now I'm not criticizing the amount, I'm criticizing the fact that the explanatory memorandum states that there won't be any such costs, and in another part, the explanatory memorandum correctly states that it's not known what the costs will be because we don't know if any such contagion will come. - The compensation was granted, in particular, to the chasing users, for the costs associated with the construction and maintenance of scent fences and for the costs incurred to ensure the destruction of pigs caught and found in the infected area. [[Hunting associations, hunting communities]] I'm gonna skip this whole part about the plague, but I'm gonna say the next paragraph: As regards the effects of the refinement and addition of the content of the emergency veterinary measures imposed by veterinary authorities and the follow-up of the new competence of the region and the clarification of the rules on compensation for costs and losses, it should be noted that the content of the measures imposed is always determined on the basis of the current disease situation in a particular case and it is therefore not possible to estimate beforehand the bodies to which the measures will apply and to evaluate the effects of the measures imposed. What I consider to be something that hasn't actually fallen here yet, and you might be interested in some of them. As of 1 July 2017, Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, namely its amendment, has been implemented by Commission Regulation 2017/893, authorised to use animal protein derived from farmed insects for the feeding of aquaculture animals. Currently, it is for the production of processed animal protein, i.e. for feeding purposes, it is possible to use only a limited spectrum of insect species, namely the gatekeeper, the domestic fly that we keep in the Czech Republic in about seven places, if I have understood it correctly from the reason message, the dustman of the flour we keep, the barn's darker, the domestic cricket, the short-winged cricket and the banana cricket. These are all kennels that legitimately feed on the sale of these insects. And we regulate in the veterinary law the functioning of these primary producers, whether it be the production of insects used as feed for other animals, as well as intended for human consumption - this specifically concerns § 22 para. 1 of the veterinary law. It's for those of you who care that we don't just have livestock farms anymore, but we're adjusting, and it's definitely right, veterinary law and insect farms. What I'd like to say here as a guinea pig that doesn't make much sense to me. The draft veterinary law introduces a new administrative fee. I, in turn, quote a few sentences from the explanatory note to make it clear that I am not inventing: The tariffer of the Act on Administrative Charges is supplemented by an administrative fee for the issue of consent to the disposal of the pet horse carcases by the breeder on his own land. The approval is issued by the Regional Veterinary Administration on the basis of the provisions of § 40 para. 4 veterinary law. Those consents were issued in 2015 in the Czech Republic a total of 15, in 2016 a total of 113, in 2017 a total of 29. - We're introducing a new administrative $100 bill. Well, I'm not sure it's effective. In the order of tens of administrative decisions issued annually, for which we will want a hundred crowns as a state. I think the cost of this bureaucracy will be much higher than the collection of the administrative fee. [[10.30 hours]] It's up to us to consider that the next time we deal with this law, I don't think it's going to be that far, so the question is, if the House approves the law today, if we shouldn't avoid this kind of thing, because that's what we're doing with this whole bureaucratic machine. Perhaps it is, from my point of view, something that is economic nonsense for the state to collect a hundred crowns for the 29th charge. I think all of this is going to cost a lot more than that. Let me also comment on the amendments that the agricultural committee discussed at its meeting. I think it is not a very good card when we have Mr Kott's amendment - although I know that there is essentially a postman with him, and now I do not mean that in the pejorative sense of the word - where some things or some facts that have escaped in the veterinary law are being saved, and we are trying to improve the veterinary law because errors have arisen, and the amendment has about 26 pages. After all, Minister, it would be a good idea to tell the Ministry a little bit that we would not have to have 26-page amendments. That it's really a lot. I understand that this can happen, but it's not a good card. There is an amendment by Mr Kováčik, who makes the Ministry of Agriculture part of the Ministry of Education. I have already drawn attention to this at the meeting of the Agriculture Committee and at the House of Deputies, that I do not think that this is quite conceptually correct. But it'll be up to the House to decide how to handle it eventually. But what I find essential is the fact that private veterinarians point out that they are concerned that we do not get to increase and accept other responsibilities, the obligation to educate veterinary surgeons by the salami method. I met with the Rector, who, after my criticism at the agricultural committee meeting, wanted to meet me and assure me, assured me that they had no such interest. I was telling him my reservations about the fact that I think, on the one hand, it is unconventional, that it should rather go along the way of education and, on the other hand, the Committee on Education, Youth and Sports. And the fear is still in me, even though the Rector assured me that they didn't want any new duty. I know this may not be happening in this personnel situation, but the door's already opened, and I don't think that's wise. I think that this could have been done better, and if the proposal had not passed, I am prepared to work on making sure that the veterinary public is not concerned with other and other obligations that will have to be fulfilled, because of course they would have been reflected in the cost of veterinary care, but also, of course, in the normal functioning of the veterinarians, and those of us who come in contact with the veterinarians quite often because we have cattle or horses on farms, so we know what it is difficult to get vets in the first place, because the work as cattle grow in the Czech Republic and horses grow more and more. And this could cause similar problems to those in the case of nurses, when we gave them new and new qualifications if they want to do the work of a nurse, and suddenly we got into a situation that we don't have nurses. Before that, I would like to warn and ask that, if possible, we simply look for some other way to help veterinary universities in terms of their importance, but at the same time not to open the way for the handling of other duties on practical veterinarians in the field. I don't think it would be, and it's not good. My colleague's amendment is specific, and I have to go over the 26 pages, 27, 28 pages of the amendment to the veterinary law. Mrs Červíčková may be in good faith, but probably not too much knowledge of the matter of the functioning of the municipal government, I do not know how it is, however, she proposes among other things that in § 42 para. 7 the sentence was inserted after the first sentence: "The operation of a shelter for animals without cooperation with the municipality in ensuring the care of stray and abandoned animals is prohibited." The sentence looks nice on the outside, but as practically possible, I can't imagine it at all. Not to mention, in another paragraph, she proposes a change that the municipality should have a contract to run the shelter. I'm not sure that we can legally order the self-government to have a contract. Not to mention, no one really knows what it is. If it wasn't enough to just write "Treaty, starosta, Owner of the shelter" and that's what we've fulfilled the legal prerequisites, that's ridiculous to me. But theoretically, according to the design, it's possible. So we're gonna come up with some other contracts that we're gonna invent into a system that's already over-enthusiastic, I think it's unwise. Where the shelters are and work and have a good relationship with the village, they don't need a contract. The municipality usually helps them in their activities. And vice versa, where they don't work very well, there are government authorities here that should see to it that they work properly, or if they don't work in accordance with the laws of the Czech Republic to simply be banned, they are closed. The Ministry of Agriculture here gives interesting information in the comments of these amendments on how many such checks have taken place, that it is about 50 per cent each year, which I think is fine. There are also a number of individual findings and measures that have been taken to do this. What struck me by the fact that in the event, and may such a problem arise, and in practice it occurs that serious problems arise with animal life in shelters that the State Veterinary Administration cannot cancel the shelter. The Ministry of Agriculture, in accordance with the law, says that it does not issue permits, so it cannot revoke the permit. He's being issued by the Bureau of Commerce. I don't know how it would work in practice, it's probably not gonna be easy, we can get into some lawsuits that in practice mean that what we're dealing with above all, i.e. the lives of animals in shelters, so it will take a long time to repair them. And I think it would be worth considering for the future to be the Department of Agriculture, or veterinarians to have such a right. At the same time - and I'm going back to what I said a moment ago - so that the possibility and chances of the vets on it systemically have space to do with the animals in case they're being abused and we don't always have to invent managerially in a place that the animal quickly takes, who quickly buys it, etc., how to do it so that the animal continues to have a chance at a normal life. We don't have that in practice, and it would be worth it to strengthen the competence of the Department of Agriculture. [[10.40 hours]] Mr Pražák proposes an amendment to the amendment. Amendment to the resolution of the agricultural committee concerning the ante-mortem inspection and post-mortem inspection of sick, exhausted or injured slaughter animals in slaughterhouses, where one control of the veterinarian makes two checks. This means, what the agricultural committee originally agreed to, that he said, just a tour of the animal in question, which is ill and which unfortunately needs to be defeated, the veterinarian gives his consent, here I am saying that the vet must come again to check on the already slaughtered animal. I'm not quite sure it's necessary, but the Department of Agriculture has agreed to do so. In practice, I would always call for the regulations and controls that we already have to be reduced, or rather, to be digestible and bearable and not redundant. In this case, I'm not quite sure we'd have to make two checks out of it. I would stick to what the agricultural committee is proposing, and that means I'm not going to quote that paragraph anymore, I'm already long enough, which means, in simple terms, only to carry out one check. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u9	That was Mr. Petr Bendl. He called for two performances with priority rights, namely the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman and the rapporteur. I have a factual point to Podal, so I have to give a factual point a priority. Mr. Secretary, wait a little longer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond to Mrs Červíčková's amendment - it has already fallen here, but I would like to stress this also for our club - under letter B3, which we cannot support, for these reasons. Firstly, there are communities that do not want to care for dogs and cats, and the impact could be that many shelters would perish. We already know from practice that there is a high shortage of places for abandoned and stray animals. Secondly, this amendment, according to the information available, has not been discussed with shelters and it is not clear what would happen to animals after the removal of shelters. For these reasons, we cannot support this amendment under the SPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u12	Hello. Mr President, Members, I am only very brief on Mr Bendl's speech. I understand why he was performing here, and I quite understand. However, a few notes. Dear colleague, former Minister Bendle, those contingency plans have been in the law since the beginning of 1999 and their purpose is an effective solution to disease situations. So just to add that since 1999 and in the meantime, you and I have changed. [[are:]] Pastoral journals are not subject to the law at all. With regard to the explanatory report, again, nothing surprising, because it is addressed by the inclusion of the chapter of the resort 329, that is the money. Of course, it is very difficult to predict potential increased costs in a possible infection. I will just do an example here, CZK 300 million in African swine fever, and a large part of it was paid from the European Union, so it is very difficult to predict those things in advance. As far as the veterinary faculty is concerned, I gave a neutral opinion, what you said exactly. We are not the Ministry of Education, but I understand the amendment. As for the 26 pages of the amendment from us to our law, I just want to say that we have responded very logically over time, I stress, to the new legislation from Brussels to the basic regulation on control. If we don't use it, we'll amend the veterinary law every month. So it's just to explain why the 26 pages went in there. It wasn't like we wanted anything else. So we wanted to save time during the process. I think that, as you criticized the colleague here, Mr. Pražák, I just want to say that it is an obligation to do a veterinary examination before and after defeat - that's just a technical question... [[Member of the Pražák from the bench off microphone: Sick animals.]] Sick animals, I point out, yes. As regards the strengthening of vet powers and so on, I respect and do not resist this, however, we must respect the trade law and I think that as all the authorities proceed, they are giving incentives to the trade authorities. As far as the disturbance of shelters is concerned, I just want to say that the State Veterinary Administration is responding in practice, giving corrective measures, and if its authority is strengthened, of course we respect that. I just wanted a few of those reactions, but I don't want to keep it up because I understood your act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u13	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Petr Bendl and then by the rapporteur. Sorry, Mr colleague, the rapporteur also made a point of fact, so in that case, he has the floor immediately. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u14	Thank you. I will be very short, I do not want to join the obstruction of the tax package and I will no longer respond to the individual speeches, I just want to thank the veterinarians and all those involved in the eradication of the outbreak of African swine fever in Zlinsk at the very beginning of the debate. This law, among other things, responds to practical experience and knowledge gained by both the state administration, both municipalities and cities, both police and veterinary administration, the Ministry of Agriculture, regional administration also in the eradication of this outbreak. We were the first in the world to succeed, and everywhere around us, as in Hungary, Ukraine, Poland, there are multiple outbreaks of African swine fever. The measures adopted by this law are intended to prevent the recurrence of African swine fever in the Czech Republic, as there would be a situation that would be not for millions of damage but for billions of damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Petr Bendl's point of order now. A colleague of mine, Holomčík, will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u16	First of all, the veterinary law is certainly not a law that is irrelevant. And I think we're gonna have a hard time agreeing on which law is important. At this point, we will discuss the veterinary law, and we will certainly get to the other laws. So please don't criticize me here, Mr rapporteur through the President, that I may be holding something up. I didn't say anything here that didn't concern the veterinary law and the current material. And to the Minister. If the phrase "the bill does not foresee economic and financial implications for the state budget and other public budgets" is simply written there, then I say that the sentence simply does not apply. It's probably interesting for the public, but the reality inside the law is just different. And I'm not going back to everything. All I'm asking is the horses and the fee. A new administrative fee in the order of tens throughout the Czech Republic, you don't have to comment on it anymore, Minister, but at least try to think about what the costs will be, what the effect will be, why we have to put such stupidity there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to my colleague Holomčík, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mrs Taťána Malá apologizes from 11.15, the Prime Minister apologizes for reasons of work, he apologizes to Mr Bláha from 10.30 to 13 hours for reasons of work, he also apologises to Mrs Ivana Nevludová from 11.30 to 14.30 and Marian Bojko from 11.30 to 14.30, he also apologizes for the same time for working reasons Lubomír Volný. Now, then, Mr David Pražák, with a point of fact. A colleague of mine, Holomčík, will be able to wait. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u18	Good morning. Just to clarify. What Mr Bendl said, the subsequent veterinary check in sick animals is there so that meat from sick animals does not end up on a plate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u19	Thank you. And now, colleague Holomčík. A colleague of mine, Baxa, will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is extremely important that we discuss this press today, so I will be very economical. I'd like to talk about two things here. One thing now concerns the current case of quite hideous and appalling animal abuse at the slaughterhouse in the Central Bohemia Region. I'm saying this here especially because of the public, I'm going to want us to deal with this at the agricultural committee's meeting because I think it's important to find out if this thing was a failure of an individual or a small group of people, or if it's an indicator of some systemic error that we should eliminate. But that's what I'm saying right now, as a public signal, so it's clear that someone is dealing with this. Now to the press. I would like to talk about two parliamentary amendments which I think this House should approve. I would like to ask politely for the support of these proposals, although neither of them I submit. They're both about dog chipging. We know that there's an obligation to chip dogs, we know it went through the media. The resemblance that is now in veterinary law and legislation seems to be a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, it's just a step in the right direction, because if we don't do some other things to chip, it's really a toothless measure. Here I would like to point out the amendment by Mr Kováčik, who adds to the chip obligation to establish a central register for veterinary administration, which would be linked to the chip. If the system is to produce a desired effect, I consider this to be a crucial thing to be. It is, of course, the second thing, even if this matter were to take effect in the event of approval, will be a task for the next House and for the next government to ensure that the solution is appropriate, that the obligation to register is the breeder, if it is not more appropriate to discuss whether it should be a veterinarian. But that's something that practice will show us. So here I am politely asking for the support of the amendment. These are amendments c to kolega Kováčik. And the second proposal, which I consider important, is one of the amendments tabled by Mrs Červíčková. It's led as a B2 proposal. He basically says that if we have any age of a dog, when it has to be chipped, then the obligation to chip them even when it has to change the owner. I also consider this to be an important thing, which can and will very likely also eliminate a certain lack of system, so we will actually avoid the fact that a breeder who in some way reproduces dogs avoids the obligation to chip by selling the animal before the obligation occurs. This is also a very important thing from my point of view. However, the proposal is wider and contains some provisions with which many Members have a problem, and my previous speakers confirm my words. For this reason, in agreement with the petitioner, rapporteur and minister, I will propose a change of procedure so that we vote separately on Amendment B2 and then on the other proposals by Mrs Červíčková as a whole. That is, in order not to vote on the whole en bloc proposal, because I think that the amendment introduced by Amendment B2 is so important that I would not like the rest of the proposal to jeopardise its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u21	Thank you, colleague Holomčík. Now a factual comment by Miroslav Kalousek. My colleague Baxa will be able to wait. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u22	Thank you for the floor. I am merely calling for colleagues and for you, Mr President, in view of the arguments that have been raised, after the end of the debate, I will ask for a half-hour break for the TOP 09 club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u23	Okay. I'm registering a request for a recess at the club after the debate. Now, then, my colleague Martin Baxa. Jan Zahradník will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u24	Thank you for the floor. Good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I would also like to comment on the amendments already mentioned by Mrs Monika Červíčková concerning the shelters. I am not a specialist in veterinary law, there has been a very interesting debate on some parts of it, but I would like to comment on the amendments that are now included in the system under the code B1 and B3, submitted by Mrs Červíčková, because they directly concern municipalities. I have quite recently read very carefully the interview with the Member on iRozhlas, which was published on 14 October. And I must say, Madam President, that it is still not clear to me and that it is not clear to me why you are proposing these two amendments, or it is not clear to me exactly what reasons are leading you to do so. I also read the explanatory note on your amendment. I apologize for perhaps a little stronger words, but it just doesn't feel clear to you how the reality of shelters works in the field, in individual municipalities and cities, whether smaller or larger. Before commenting on your amendment, I would just like to describe in general the situation that is in our city. The town of Plzeň operates a large city shelter for dogs. He's listed as an organizational branch of our city. The city is fully financing its activities and carrying out all its tasks, I would say, even above-standardly, concerning the care of dogs, whether within the meaning of the law as you speak of it or in other activities. As far as cat shelters are concerned, our city has only one partial contract with one association that takes care of abandoned cats and which concerns the castration program to which our city contributes. That's a thing that's directly related to our self-government. But in addition, several registered associations operate on the territory of Pilsen, meaning now in the legal sense that they take care of abandoned cats and which, and I would like to stress, have a fulfilled reporting obligation to the State Veterinary Administration. So they're not the associations you're talking about doing business like they're doing it black without some kind of confirmation, without some kind of announcement, they're just doing it. And I want to stress that this is not just an activity that is linked to the Civil Code. On the one hand, I just think that you are connecting things that are not exactly related to each other, that is to say, fulfilling the legal obligation, when the municipality has clear obligations from the Civil Code, and in addition, there is some voluntary activity that this - I will use maybe legally inaccurate, but I would say a clear term - registered equipment, registered associations are engaged in. It's just a description of reality in our city. I would like to quote here two of your amendments, when it is proposed in Amendment B1, to insert a provision which reads "a shelter for animals of a facility which, in agreement with the municipality, provides temporary care for stray animals or abandoned animals." And Amendment B3, when do § 42 para. 7 the following sentence is inserted: "The operation of a shelter for animals without cooperation with the municipality in ensuring the care of stray and abandoned animals shall be prohibited." [[11.00 hours]] I consider this to be important, and that is why I had the introduction to your interview for iRozlas, when I think that you want very restrictively, or this amendment very restrictively wants to limit a wide range of activities without actually reflecting the diverse reality that I am talking about in the case of our city, the city of Plzeň, but which are also mentioned in a number of cases in the interview that you conducted in that article that is related. I'm the mayor, Mayor of Plzeň City. If I hypothetically assume that this proposal will be approved, passes through the Senate, this amendment will take effect, so, in the case of Amendment B1, of course, I will logically ask my colleagues and magistrate officials what an agreement with the municipality means, and that is the argument that has already been made. And I am just saying that this provision is simply inaccurate, and the authorities will not know what to do with it. What's the deal with the village? Is this some kind of grant agreement? Is this some kind of business contract? What legal act is to be taken in this case? I am stressing this in a situation where - which I do not know whether you, again through the President, are being addressed to you, Madame, whether you are referring to an agreement with the municipality in relation to the facilities which are primarily engaged in this activity or having a broader activity, and whether you are talking about cases where the municipality itself operates such a facility, such as a town shelter for dogs in Pilsen, or some kind of facility that exists next to it. In my opinion, as if the word agreement with the municipality is completely unclear and would give rise to the possible approval of such a proposal, in my opinion, to the immediate need not only to interpret this, but to actually amend it, because I simply, as mayor, do not know what the agreement with the municipality is in this case, what it should impose on us, what it should impose on that shelter, how to stand up to such a thing. And it follows, and I am sorry for the term, but this, in my opinion, is followed by a nonsensical provision on the ban on the operation of animal shelters without cooperation with the community in ensuring the care of stray and abandoned animals. If you do not define in this proposal what is meant by the agreement with the municipality, it is not even mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, it is absurd to insert into this law at the same time that such equipment should be directly prohibited. I have a problem with that for two reasons. One reason is the reason I was talking about right now. The second reason is that in those associations that work, which I have talked about, those voluntary associations that are engaged in animals, I will say this in general, there are people who are completely voluntary, I stress voluntarily, at my discretion, simply want animals that, for various reasons, in our case, those cats to find themselves somewhere on the street without a particular owner, somewhere they didn't go, they didn't die, so that someone would just pay attention to them, and you here, I point out, the equipment that has a full reporting obligation to the State Veterinary Administration, you actually say to those people who, on the one hand, fulfil the obligation to the State, to the State Veterinary Administration...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u25	I understand. I will ask my colleagues to remain calm in the hall, in particular I will ask that the Minister and the rapporteur be not disturbed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u26	Thank you politely. Thank you politely, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u27	I think it's quiet enough. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u28	So they're volunteering for this care and at the same time they're fulfilling the reporting obligation to the State Veterinary Administration, so you're actually telling them, we don't really want your work, and we want to ban you right now. Because we as a community don't have a deal with some of these associations, we don't support them, because those associations don't even ask for it. They're small devices, they have so-called. domestic deposits in this case, they devote themselves to some number of cats, they get some money for food etc., and they just don't need any cooperation with the village, they don't need any agreement, we don't need it as a community, because they simply carry out some of their purposes, which is consistent with what we do as a community, but above all, as citizens, we wish to treat animals decently. Then, Madame, it doesn't actually make any sense to me. And I have to admit, I'm sorry I haven't seen you on the list yet, because I'm certainly not the only one bringing this up. I have been approached by a number of representatives of these associations and I think it would be desirable to explain the meaning of this measure in the third reading now. And the second thing is that, and I'm just going to recapitulate what I'm saying, you just want to ban these associations or these devices on the basis of the previously vaguely defined obligation to enter into an agreement with the municipality. Well, actually, the construction, I'm sorry, it doesn't make any sense. I do not agree with her, I will certainly not support her, and I will dare to call on you, through the Vice-President, once again, to explain and possibly dispel the doubts that are here, even though I am convinced that the way your amendments are, they cannot be scattered, because not only does this not result from the wordings, what I am asking, but it cannot be done. And I certainly declare this support for what Mr Holomčík mentioned here, so that, if I am not mistaken, those amendments B1 to B4 should be voted separately in this summary, because I think that, in particular, these two provisions, which I have spoken about not only, but a number of Members, will want to express their opinion strongly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u29	Thank you, Mr. Bax. Before Mr zahradník comes out, there is still a factual remark from Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. And once again, I will ask the House for peace! You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, members of the government, I think I am the only veterinarian in the Chamber of Deputies, and I think there is one colleague in the Senate. So just briefly. As far as I'm concerned, I'm in conflict of interest because I'm on the board of directors of a veterinary and pharmaceutical university as well as the scientific board of one of the faculties. However, I consider the proposal relating to education to be reasonable, because it is not only voluntary and is essentially very complementary to what official veterinarians have, who have a system of attestations, which is also optional. That means, when I was an official veterinarian for eight years, I could get a testimonial with the employer's approval, but they also wrote to me twice that it wasn't in accordance with their tactics because I was very bad, so I didn't do my second testimonial. So I'd rather have a second Ph.D. on my job. And the other thing. This concerns exactly what Mr. Baxa said. I also think that if we want to adjust the shelters in some way so that it isn't completely a piss, then it needs to be done in a different way, because both of these formulations are unhappy. And what is cooperation? It's a vague concept, and it's a ban. This means that I would also advocate that we do not support these amendments, and if we want to apply it in such a way that, for example, they cannot hide from the propagation plants or go around it, let us do so in another way, which will not be fundamentally controversial and will not really have an interpretational uncertainty in this regard, which can cause things that are really unsolvable in practice and for individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Vlastimil Válek, will now prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm properly logged in. You may have mentioned a point of fact, but I'm running out of time, so I take it we didn't get along. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. - No, proper application.]] Okay. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little unconventional about my usual thesis, but here I would like to speak one more time at the third reading with a request to support my amendments. [[11.10 hours]] We may have recorded many of us e-mails that make different groups of people who consider themselves to be animal keepers and who are involved in the operation of various facilities that can be called shelters, and who always and question the opinions of the other group. Personally, I think it does not hurt to make things right, and my proposal is directed, on the one hand, to the process of registering new shelters themselves, but also to be able to verify the functioning of the shelters existing and their possible infringements of the prescribed obligations to affect the cancellation of the registration. So my proposal, which is listed as D1 and D2, is actually made up of three amendments to the law. The first amendment states in Section 42 - supplemented sentence: Allowing regional veterinary authorities not to register if the applicant does not comply with the requirements laid down in this Act and the applicable implementing legislation issued for the operation of the animal shelter. The second proposal concerns the same paragraph. 9, where the sentence is added, which actually evokes the possibility to control existing operators and allows regional veterinary administration to cancel the registration of the shelter if it detects serious or repeated infringements of the operator's obligations. Finally, my third proposal, which actually sets a framework for the previous two proposals. It actually requires the Ministry to issue implementing legislation which would lay down the conditions for the operation of the shelter, its arrangement and minimum size, space for animals. Thus, this is the one mentioned in the previous two draft legislation, which should be checked by the veterinary administration either when verifying compliance with the conditions for registration, then, where appropriate, when verifying certain objections to the fact that the shelter or the facility in question is operated contrary to the requirements imposed by the State on the shelter operator. So these are proposals D1 and D2, and I am asking you to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u33	I thank my colleague Zahradník. Now, Mr Vlastimil Válek, Mr Dominik Feri will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u34	Dear... [[Ambassador Faltynek is speaking with Minister Schiller.]] Only an animal can fail to grant a lady's request. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I always admire those Members who are orientate in the law, because I always study the law, then study the changelings, and then find out that the changelings are still going to be cut, and I have no idea when it passes in some version of what it will mean. Maybe I need a half an hour here to talk about what variants they can go through and what it's gonna be final. And I'm going to try to explain this very briefly on two points. So the first is the proposal by Mr Kováčik, Mr President, to the vet education parties, and, in principle, what kind of doctor would I be if I did not support education, because certification and qualifications are important. But the education is supposed to be voluntary, but I don't see it in the law. So I'd like to make sure that you can actually write a decree that something that's legal can be voluntary. I don't know, and I'd like someone who knows to say it. Moreover, the education, as said here by the President, is organised by my previous speaker, who currently works, and yes, it is voluntary education. However, this education will be organized by the university, which I think is the right thing to do, because, in general, universities and medical faculties are organized by the education of doctors, and I feel the same way. This education is supposed to be, as I understood on the agricultural committee, a two-stage one. That means, in the first degree, these vets will be educated, let's say, as far as I'm concerned - I imagine it's especially horse testing, especially dog testing, especially bird certification. And in the second degree, they will be educated in the field. That's a special certificate from surgery, from the internship. And if it's voluntary, it's just gonna increase the qualifications of the veterinarians, and that way he's gonna be able to choose whether to go to the tested or untested client. If, of course, there is a risk that these vets will have to pay and they really have to do it, and it would increase the costs of farmers, for example, because, of course, everyone will take into account education in the kind of payments they accept, so that would be a problem. So to this point, I would like to be able to stand up for something that emotionally, to say as a doctor, I strongly support, so I would need a clear statement from the Ministry that it will be written in the decree that it is voluntary, that it is not necessary and that it will basically be as I take a course, but de facto does not oblige me to do anything new or justify it. The second thing that is not clear to me and, perhaps, I like, as if - now I am sorry, it will again be in the newspaper - the layman, is the amendment through the President, Mrs Červíčková, where I like the community - association relationship. It's all delicious, but it's just not clear to me whether I can choose any community in the Czech Republic, or it must be some particular community where the association will be, perhaps in its cadastral. That means, let's say, I want to open up some shelter in Líšně, and since the mayor is in Ochoz for the zelený, and he supports the shelters, I'll deal with him. I'm gonna sign the contract with him, and I'm gonna have that shelter in Laisen. So I'd like to know if that's how it's understood, or if it's understood that it's written somewhere - I didn't find it there, and it's definitely written somewhere, or then it's in a decree, which the Minister could confirm, that it must be the particular village in her cadastral area. And then I wonder what the shelter will do when the village says no, and I'm against it. This is not clear to me either. I have more such confusion, and therefore I find it very, very difficult to vote on the law as a whole, which, and by that end, I consider to be extremely, extremely good of some of the points that are key to me - the attempt to finally make order in the breeding rooms, in how many animals there are, how they are traded and what is actually happening to them. That's one of those points that I think is finally starting to sort out. So if I could get answers to my questions and have some space to think about the options of the final text, it would really help me in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u35	I thank Mr Válek. Now, Mr Dominik Feri, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u36	Thank you very much for him, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, we are all looking forward to the tax package, but before that I would like our opinion on the amendments made by Mrs Červíčková not to be heard. We welcome Amendment B2, which reduces the limit for chipping of puppies. It is quite logical from our position, because it is the fight with the multiplication plants that we are dealing with here, and this proposal could be another tool that might be able to fight the multiplication plants and be able to win it. However, what we have a major problem with, and I am not the first to mention it here, is the mentioned provision on Amendment B3, namely that the operation of an animal shelter without cooperation with the community in ensuring the care of stray and abandoned animals is prohibited. Perhaps first of all, what this amendment can supposedly say and what kind of signal it can transmit. It can send a signal that the shelters, so-called. private, doing something wrong, and we should therefore ban their activities. That's a misconception after my trial. On the contrary, I think we should support the shelters and focus more on this subject. There are 293 registered shelters nowadays. And unfortunately, such a fundamental systemic change... I would expect such a significant limitation of their operation with a consistent analysis that would clearly say how many shelters it will touch and how many shelters, how many shelters it would mean the end of their operation. Unfortunately, in view of this, this is an amendment which does not have the elements of an explanatory report for which the RIA is not being prepared and has only reasons, so unfortunately this proposal is not being dealt with and there are no proper arguments for this. [[11.20 hours]] If this is the case with the municipalities, I would also consider it very necessary that the opinion of the Union of Towns and Communities which are not there should also be in the proposal. And not only from the point of view of, say, some administrative difficulty, but above all from the point of view of money. How much cooperation with these municipalities should cost, what demands it will impose on the municipalities and who will pay for it. Because it is very easy to impose on municipalities, but they do not think about it from the point of view of funding, they are no longer thinking about it from the point of view of the budgetary determination of taxes. And since I am sitting with my colleague, Mr Červíčková, through Mr President, in the Constitutional Legal Committee, I cannot comment on the very question of cooperation and interpretation. They do not necessarily have to be written in full detail, because it is the legislative gaps that are overcome by interpretation. On the other hand, we must bear in mind that the interpretation to the court, which is binding, precedes the interpretation of the administrative authorities. If it says here that if the shelter does not cooperate with the village, then it is prohibited, it is not entirely clear what form of cooperation it should take. If it's cooperation in the form of some kind of public contract concluded between the shelter and the village, or if it's cooperation only, say, informative, indicative. Because the community knows he's got a shelter here and he's gonna work with him. The practice of those administrative authorities which conduct criminal proceedings and, where appropriate, impose administrative penalties, that is to say, regional veterinary authorities, can be very different. What's going to happen? Will there be any administrative proceedings in any region, misdemeanor proceedings? The shelter will appeal because of course it does not want to be banned, it wants to carry on its beneficial activities. And then he'll be able to defend himself...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking for peace of mind in the House. Discussions that do not relate to the topic, in principle, in the foyer. I mean, all parts of the House, and don't make me name those who are really discussing something else in the benches... I'll wait... You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u38	Thank you for the peace of mind, Mr. Vice-President. And after the fine imposed, or, respectively, after the administrative authority states that the shelter is to be banned, while in the neighbouring region the regional veterinary administration can easily state: Well that's fine, we interpret the provision in such a way that cooperation is sufficient when the mayor knows there is a shelter, communicates with them, announces the animals found and so on. Well, we're sorry, we're in a tough area here, and you can't keep working. Then, of course, there is the possibility of defending yourself in the regime of administrative justice. This means bringing an administrative action to the competent court, to the regional court, or to file a case against the Supreme Administrative Court. I think you all have an idea who's ever encountered it, that getting it into this phase and having a binding legal statement from the Supreme Administrative Court, so we're sometimes like three years from now. That means we're writing a law here, or there's a proposal that we're not even sure about by interpretation, we're not sure what it's going to do in practice, and we'd have to wait three years for some binding break-up of the problem. That means, from this point of view, it is either necessary to clarify whether the appellant insists or not accept the proposal at all, which we think is the best thing in our judgment. So this proposal is problematic and would require a wider debate ahead of time. That means some kind of draft before it's presented. This is also given from the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture. I quote: "In this context, however, it should be pointed out that the proposal amends the existing concept of the operation of the animal shelter without having been discussed in advance with the bodies concerned and without taking into account the possible effects on those bodies.' Of course, it is not fair to ask the appellant to enlist all the 293 shelters, not at all. But to find out at least some, say, ten fifteen of them, what impact it would have on them, or could have had an impact, I would have demanded more than appropriate and appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u39	I thank Mr Dominik Feri. Now, Mr Leo Luzar has entered the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very short. We have received a letter from our colleague Balaštíková, who is signed by the Rector of the University of Brno, who supports proposal number 17. But I also received a second letter from students of veterinary medicine in Košice, who specialize, if I understood correctly, for large pets, that means horses, cows and others who are now asking how they will be accredited back. That means whether they're gonna be vet-specialized, or if they're just the veterinary practitioners when they come to us with that study in Košice. In this implementing regulation, it is said that the details are set by the Ministry of Agriculture. So I would like to ask if you could say in your final words what the accreditation conditions will be for these students of high vet in Košice, who are quite a lot, Čech, who study there when they come back to what group they will be assigned to, how they will look at them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u41	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate. If no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. Before we go to the next step, I state Mr Dolínek's apology within 13 hours for work reasons. I ask now if there is interest in final words, Minister. It's not like that. Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur to take the position at the speaker's desk and to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present and comment on individual amendments. I'll ask the Minister to do the same. One more apology, Mr rapporteur. This is for Mr Karel Schwarzenberg, from 13:00 to 19:00, for health reasons. I've logged the TOP 09 request for a break, and I'm asking if he wants that recess after the vote procedure or before the procedure has been approved. [[Member Kalousek: Before the procedure.]] Before the procedure? I didn't see it that way. I thought we'd have a procedure here first, so we'd know... Okay, in that case, Mr rapporteur, there's nothing left but that I'm declaring a recess until... [[A Member of Kalousek is reporting for the floor.]] Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, before or after the procedure?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u42	I'm sorry, I felt like I made myself clear. We are particularly concerned with the two amendments that we need to consult on, so before voting on the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u43	About the amendments. That's how I got it right. So first the procedure, and then I'll call a break. So thank you for the clarification of the Chairman of TOP 09 and the rapporteur continues. We will now deal with the voting procedure. I beg the peace of the House. Not yet, rapporteur, we will wait for colleagues and colleagues to settle down. You can introduce us to the proposed procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u44	Thank you for the floor. The Agricultural Committee as a committee of guarantee discussed the bill and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic vote in the third reading on the proposals submitted to this bill in the following order. The first vote would include proposals for legislative technical amendments. These were not presented in the third reading in the debate, so there will be no vote on legislative technical adaptations. So that's the first vote. Then the amendments of the Agricultural Committee A1 to A16 and A18 to A28 en bloc will be one vote. Another vote, i.e. in the second order, would be the amendment of the A17 Agricultural Committee. For those who have not yet paid attention or paid attention to it, this is a proposal concerning the education at veterinary university. [[11.30 hours]] The third vote would then be the amendments made by Mrs Monika Červíčková B1 to B4 en bloc by one vote. The fourth vote would be the amendments by Mr Pavel Kováčik C1 and Mr C2.1 to Mr C2.3 en bloc by one vote. The fifth vote would be the amendments by Jan Zahradník D1 and D2 en bloc by one vote. The sixth vote would be the amendments by Mr David Pražák E1 and Mr E2 en bloc by one vote. We would vote on the law as a whole in the wording of the amendments adopted. That's the design of the procedure as prepared by the guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u45	Opinions on procedure. A colleague of mine, Holomčík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to propose a change in the procedure, as I have announced in the debate, in such a way as to vote on Amendments B by voting separately on B2 and B1, B3 and B4 in the second vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u47	Mr. rapporteur, do you agree?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u48	The rapporteur accepts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u49	Okay, then we don't have to vote. In that case, with this amended proposal on vote B2, one vote, B1, 3, 4 - the second step. Okay. If no one else has any comment on the procedure, we will decide on procedure by voting number 38, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 38, from 181 in favour of 164, against no one. The procedure has been approved. I am now declaring a break for the TOP 09 meeting until 12.01.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u50	Have a nice noon. Ladies and gentlemen, it is 12:01 p.m., the time for the meeting of the assembly club has ended, and we are returning to the vote on the bill. I will ask the rapporteur, who is ready to take us through the vote in accordance with the approved procedure. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u51	Yes, thank you for your word. So, Mr President, I am asking you, given that no legislative technical amendments have been made, i.e. proposals for amendments, to put the A1 to A16 and A18 to A28 en bloc amendments to the agricultural committee by one vote. [[President: Opinion of the Committee?]] The Committee has delivered a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u52	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 39, 183 Members registered, for 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u53	Thank you. Second vote. It is the vote on the amendment of the Agricultural Committee under number A17. I remind you, it's a veterinary university. [[President: Opinion of the Committee?]] The Committee's opinion is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u54	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 40, 183 Members registered, for 93, against 5. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u55	Thank you. I'll try to speak up. Some say you can't hear enough, and it's not your hearing. So now, please vote nicely on the change of procedure, on the amendment by Mrs Červíčková, under number B2. The Committee's opinion is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u56	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 41, 183 Members registered, for 152, against 1. The motion was accepted. Please, ladies and gentlemen, keep your voice down so we can hear what we're voting on. Mr rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u57	Yes, thank you. We are now going to vote on the amendments by Mrs Monika Červíčková under number B1, B3 and B4. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u58	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 42, 184 Members registered, for 8, against 42. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u59	Yes, thank you. If we can continue, we are now one vote on Mr Pavel Kováčik's amendments C1 and C2.1 to C2.3, en bloc. The opinion of the Agricultural Committee, i.e. the Guarantee Committee, is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u60	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 43 registered 184 Members, for 152, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u61	And we are now one vote on vote number seven, Mr David Pražák's amendments E1 and Mr E2 en bloc. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u62	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 44 registered 183 Members, for 127, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u63	According to my records, we voted on everyone...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u64	I am afraid that we have not voted on the proposals of Mr D1 and Mr D2 of Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u65	I'm sorry. I'm sorry, yes, really. A fellow Zahradník will forgive me. I beg his forgiveness. Voting on Mr Jan Zahradník D1 and Mr D2 en bloc's amendments by one vote. The opinion of the Agricultural Committee is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u66	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 45, 183 Members registered, for 163, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u67	And now I believe that, according to your records, we have also voted on all the amendments and we are before the vote on the law as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-001-204.u68	Yes, that's right, all the proposals have been voted on. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on veterinary care and amending some related laws, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, according to the House's press, 435, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Veterinary law]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 46, 184 Members signed up, for 130, no one opposed. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister, and I conclude on this point. Now, let's look at point 205. It's about
