ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u1	291. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. On the agenda of the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, eight responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with, and for this reason they asked to be on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have four more responses to the written interpelations to discuss today. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further." And now we will proceed to discuss the answer to the written interpelation. The first written interpelation is at the First Vice-President of the Government. First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček responded to the interview of Zdeněk Ondráček on alleged sale of the spa house Mercur near Mariánské Lázně. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 611. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. As Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček is duly excused, this interview cannot be discussed and will continue to be interrupted. Another written interpelation. Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová replied to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interview on the current drawdown of European funds in the Czech Republic between 2014 and 2020. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 628. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová. I am opening the debate on this written interview. I ask Mr Munzar to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, thank you, Madam Secretary, for your presence. Hello, colleagues, after that short night, thank you for being here. I asked the Minister, just like a year and a half ago, about the current drawdown and the state of European funds. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer, indeed even for the very well-treated table. And thanks to my interpelling a year and a half ago, I have an opportunity to sort out what the trends are. So thank you for the well-treated answer in a formal way. Nevertheless, I have had this interpelation placed at the Chamber of Deputies meeting so that we can entertain ourselves as to what are the threats, in terms of European funds, regarding the lack of European funds and possible corrections. According to the answer I received, it seems that according to these figures, the worst is the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, where, for your image, colleagues, the data that are thus due to March of this year - and the Minister will certainly tell me whether the situation has somehow shifted - was slightly more than half of the appropriations in the commitments, that is, in the acts accompanying the granting of subsidies, but only less than 18 percent of the funds have yet to be settled in the requests for payment. Which, given the time we are in, given that we have the N+3 rule, and the European funds have to be exhausted by 2023, so it is only one fifth, less than one fifth of the paid funds charged in this operational programme, so that is not very good news. We all know that a year ago, we were dealing with the certification problem here, and in the Ministry, we were dealing with the certification problem of the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. So I want to ask you how it was solved. And actually, I wanted to ask in general whether correction in the Czech Republic would be possible from wrong practices. Given the events of recent days, of course, partly the answer to that question is that it is likely to be at risk, I would say that this borders on 100% certainty that there is a risk of correction of European funds. So I want to ask you a few additional questions that generally relate to European funds. One, if there are any other corrections besides the audit corrections and the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, and I am actually thinking about other types of cases and for other reasons, and possibly at what level. So what do you expect to reduce the total allocation in each operational programme, both thanks to the correction of the audit and due to possible further corrections. If there are any other sanctions associated with the corrections for the Czech Republic, if there is any threat of other sanctions such as fines, direct sanctions or indirect sanctions. Like we're going to be cut back on the funds for the next programming period. And one last question so far. How are the beneficiaries of the subsidies and projects causing the correction as a standard? And again, I'm thinking of general cases, I'm not thinking specifically about the audit right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u3	So I thank the honourable Member and ask the Minister for an answer. I'll read the apologies. Mr Pavel žáček apologizes today on 5 December and tomorrow on 6 December for the whole day of the meeting, on the grounds of a foreign trip, and Mr František Kopřiva from 9 to 11 o'clock for health reasons. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u4	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for the commendation and thank you from the Member, because I also found the answer very exhausting, so I was a little scared, in quotation marks, which, of course, did not seem to you on the answer. If this is, of course, supplementary information, I am very happy to answer everything that the Member has asked me. You asked me what the current numbers were. So, of course, if we talk about the period 2014 to 2020, 992 challenges were actually announced and with the allocation of 763.2 billion. Crowns. These are dates from 31 October 2019, because if the Member compares it this way in time, so that he can make progress, because that is a few tens of billions of progress since March, when we gave you the last table, which is actually 131.4 percent of the main allocation of the programme. Of course, we have the tables, we're watching, and I don't think I'm gonna read the individual data here. I'd be happy to send you the current table as of October 31st so that you can, of course, compare things like this. Otherwise, all the tables for all the others are of course on our website subsidies.eu where, of course, we regularly provide information about the state of drawdown. Now, I'll get to the specific questions. What awaits us actually, if any graves are inadequate etc. He said very well that in that spring, which means in March, we had a problem with the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. In fact, the European Commission suspended certification for this programme because, of course, there were some things that had to be clarified. The OP PIK operational programme was independently audited, and the audit actually suspended some reimbursements in the spring of 2017. This has been discussed with the European Commission. OP PIK has so-called the action plan and the Commission of the 17 billion. has already released 12 billion. and another 3 billion. They're already in other payment applications. And, of course, the three billion. they're already in certification. So the N+3 rule will have no problem with any of the operating programs, because we have the limits set, that they must have 30 percent of the allocation in their payment applications, and the Czech Republic is 35.4. That means, of course, we don't have a problem with N+3. This means that we will certainly not be returning any money at the end of 2019 due to the failure to comply with the N+3 rule. Just for comparison, because, of course, this is a very complex issue, for example Slovakia did not succeed and actually returned the funds to the European Commission. Another debate was on audit corrections. So as for the audit that went on at the OP PIK itself, I've already told you here that we've already started the funding and the 12 billion. The Czech Republic already has a bill and other billions are now in the process. As far as the current audit is concerned - I apologize there, but from that audit I cannot communicate any further information. Then you asked me what is the difference in the area of correction when it comes to individual correction or system correction. There it must be said that individual correction always goes to a specific beneficiary and a specific project. The system correction is set for the programme; if the error rate in the annual report is greater than 2 per cent, then of course it is determined so-called. It's a flat-rate correction for the entire program. However, the horizontal correction, when it is over the period, of course, is always necessary for the programme to have a sufficient pool of projects, because the correction actually goes back, it's the money of national resources that goes back into the programme, and other projects apply for it. Unfortunately, for this period 2007 to 2013, we did not have sufficient inventory of projects, there was nowhere to put the money, and therefore the Czech Republic has definitely lost almost 30 billion. Crowns. There's just no projects for it. We didn't really have the money to pay for it. That's what we're very careful about at this time of year. That means, that's what I told you at the beginning, that number, that we're re-allocating the amount that the Commission is giving us for precisely these reasons. So if there's any correction, the money and the individual recipient gets the correction, they pay it back, and it goes well with the program, and the program can use it for other projects, but they have to have it. That's what's important. He must have the projects to pay for it. Now, of course, the IROP programme is being re-allocated a lot, that is, the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, because there are projects of cities, regions and municipalities that are actually in the social interest of implementing these projects, which is why the IROP is actually being re-allocated a lot, and it will actually be the program that if any corrections were made, then of course, the Integrated Regional Operational Programme will accommodate the projects. So much, if I've answered everything you've asked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u5	Well, thank you. Mr. Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u6	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Nevertheless, I will ask you - thank you for the answer - first of all, the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, because when we see a comparison... And I'm going to get new numbers from you to October, but when I'm based on the answer to my interpelation, most of the operating programs have averaged about a quarter, respectively. some, even over a quarter of the funds already accounted for, applications for payment, and it was this operational programme that had far less, that is, one fifth. That means, although one thing is what you said, relocation, but the other thing is, if it can even be fulfilled, if those projects can be realized and we can get to the point that they will be asked for a bill in payment applications in time. And I'm just worried that there's some kind of problem right now because of the certification problems at the beginning. That's the first thing. About the corrections. I mean, that's gonna be the special point here, the audit. That's why I'm not asking you for details in this answer today. But I asked if they were with the corrections, is the threat of any other sanctions such as "if," which means direct or indirect, the type of threat to cut funds into the future in the next programming period. And as we proceed as standard - I have also asked the question here, I have not yet received an answer - to those beneficiaries of subsidies and those projects that cause correction, respectively. These are the individual corrections. And then how do you proceed in the case of the system corrections? That's why I don't want to know the details of the audit right now, I think we're going to be dealing with that particular point, but I really want to see what the standard procedure is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u7	Well, thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u8	I'll fill it in. Otherwise, I answered the second question, that's the procedure with the corrections, when they're over 2%, etc., as it goes into the program. But I'll recap. So as far as the Entrepreneurship and Innovations Operational Programme for Competitiveness is concerned, yes, they, of course, have had suspended certification, so, of course, they have a problem with those billed funds. That's where it shows up a lot in the November spreadsheets, actually. So I'll be happy to text them to you, because now we really have it in October, and actually in October, the Commission launched the certification, so it's not going to show up here yet. But in defense of that OP PIK I have to say that they have 160,9 percent in the announced challenges. That means 100 per cent is the allocation, they have 160 per cent announced so that, of course, the support for the operational programme can be given to specific beneficiaries. However, it is a very good question of what you asked that, of course, we must realise that although the period is running until the end of 2023, the Czech Republic can re-allocate, that is, if a program has problems, so that we do not lose the money, because it is the money of the Czech Republic, not the specific operational programme, so we can only re-allocate until 31. 12th next year. This means that we will indeed have a very reinforced risk management system in the spring so that we can discuss relocation with the Commission. And it is the relocation, if it were, that would be in favour of the IROP, which we have just re-engaged, because there are projects of regions, cities and municipalities. They are projects under construction permit prepared and, of course, those projects, then a three-year implementation period would suffice them. So, yes, it really will have to be this way. [[9.20 hours]] About the threats. Now we don't see any threat that we're in danger of being cut short on resources, because OP PIK managed to negotiate, it went off. Of course, if there's any correction, individual or dimensional, it's not about losing the money. At that stage, when the programs run and have sufficient project stacks, the corrections, or fines, go back to the program and you can use them for other projects. The problem, however, is if it were in a period when you no longer have any projects. And here I was telling you that this is a problem between 2007 and 2013, when the money actually returned to the program, but there were no projects for them, it was not ready for it, it was not reallocated either of the programs and unfortunately the Czech Republic has physically returned or did not draw 30 billion. Crowns. That's why we're trying, which is why you've got enough programs in those tables to make sure there's enough calls, because we're ready to accept, of course, that if no one actually gets a ticket, hypothetically no one ever gets a ticket, all the projects will run as they are, for example, those regional projects, cities and municipalities would then pay the state budget in the finals, but these are obviously very good, socially significant projects, so the state doesn't see it that way. On the contrary, they are actually trying to draw the fullest of the European resources through this step. And you can only do that with this principle that you actually have more projects there than you have money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u9	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl is reporting with a point of fact. And I'll read the apology. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík apologizes today from 14:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Marek Výborný from 9:00 to the end of the day for personal and working reasons and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová today for health reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u10	Madam Secretary, Mr President, colleagues, I have a question. When we return the money that is allocated to the Czech Republic, it is either funds that we are unable to or we have not been able to spend, or it is funds for which individual projects have been found that they have not been drawn in accordance with the rules and so on. And we are also returning such funds either to the given period, if we are still in it, that is, if there have been individual errors in individual projects within the given period, whether it was... in this case it is 2014 to 2020, so the funds remain the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic has the opportunity to finish them or is it going back to the European Union? That's one of my questions. The second question is whether we would have been able to get some comparison from you, how did it actually look with us in 2017 to 2013 and 2014 to 2020 in the case of not only the funds that we were returning because we were unable to draw them out, but how did it look from the point of view of how much funding we received from the individual, individually approved, but after re-evaluation of the money returned, how much we did not actually spend in this form, or how much of the already approved financial operations we actually returned to the next drawdown. [[2007?]] I am interested in this comparison, and I am also interested in how we are possibly standing with the other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u11	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u12	There is a need to distinguish between ineligible expenditure and correction. Incompetent expenditure is exactly what you were actually saying as the other thing, that when it comes to not being in line with the program, it's an unfit expenditure. That means the managing authority won't pay it at all from European sources, but the money's not going anywhere, it's still there, only the beneficiary gets informed that it's an unfit expense and that he has to pay for it himself. And as for the corrections, whether individual or general, it has the character of a fine. If he's the beneficiary, of course, he'll pay for the correction to the operational program, and then he'll put it on other projects. The problem is when these problems are accumulated, and there are no substitute projects. And that's what you actually mentioned, the period 2007 to 2013. Very good material based on the call of the House was made by the Ministry of Finance, where it divided into individual corrections and flat-rate corrections exactly according to operational programmes, what are where errors and what happened. The individual and the area combined was 35 billion. Kroner, but we were returning 30 billion. That means the 5 billion. In some way, we were able to put into projects in the Czech Republic. But unfortunately, they weren't the clips, we weren't ready for the corrections and the 30 billion. We really haven't finished. It's not about getting them back physically, taking them, transferring them from point A to point B. But the money is not spent, that is, we have not made full use of the offers that the European Commission has given us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u13	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Member Munzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u14	Thank you. Madam Secretary, it is, of course, a good thing that individual ministries are trying to call for the potential of potential projects, so that the funds available are exhausted. The question is, and I don't know if you know it today, or if you can answer me, or if you can't, even though challenges are being announced, I'm going to say, in excess of the resources allocated to get those projects, it's in the Operation Project Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, whether you have information that the goal is actually fulfilled and that there is enough of those projects, because one thing is a challenge, the other thing is whether the projects will actually be available at the given time and time. That's the first thing. Second thing. You said the correction money was coming back from the programs. But I suppose these are the individual corrections. I do not know, therefore, if the European Commission is now saying that there is a threat of correction to the Czech Republic, this means, from my point of view, reducing the total resources for those operational programmes. Is that it, or isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u15	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u16	Firstly, I would like to say that I do not know that the European Commission would say that there is a risk of reduction on the basis of corrections, because we do not have any corrections. We will not talk hypothetically, please, because the Czech Republic does not now have any correction. As for the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, yes, you are right. They may have 160% of the total allocation announced in their calls, but the funds in the legal acts, or in those decisions for specific projects, are 63.2 percent. It's just that they actually... Not all projects that are logged in will pass because, of course, they control eligibility, incompetence and so on, and all the criteria. So that's what I was saying that in the spring we really need to keep an eye on the fact that until the next period of 2020 to 2023, we need to be sure that the operational programs will exhaust the allocation, that they have enough inventory of projects that are best in legal acts, and of course they will run implementation. If you don't, we'll start relocation. And we've already taken steps to have one of the programs allocated so that we can get those resources to the final beneficiaries, if we understand each other. That means they'll come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u17	Thank you. Mr Bendl is reporting for the debate, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u18	I may not have heard the explicit answer to my question, whether I can ask for information about the type of money we recovered from individual projects and what it looked like in the previous term of office and what it looks like in the years following, that is, in the period 2014 to 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u19	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u20	I quickly consulted with the secretary here because the material exists. And the secretary tells me he's already in the House and he's been discussed in committees. So... I know. So if I can, really, like I said, total corrections, individually or across the board, were at 35 billion. and the Czech Republic returns or has not drawn to understand each other, 30 billion. That means the 5 billion ended up somewhere in those projects within the Czech Republic. The material is very extensive, Mr Member, so perhaps it would be good - or we will send it to you because, of course, it has been provided to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u21	Mr. Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u22	I am a member of the Social and Agricultural Committee, and I have been a Member since July of this year, so I guess I missed the material somehow, so if I could ask for it -- of course, it's enough by e-mail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u23	Mr Munzar also wants to speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u24	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for answering the question of the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. That's enough for me to do this program for now. I'd like you to send me an updated table by the end of October, or by the end of September, depending on how you have it. [[Minister off the microphone: towards the end of November.]] Well, by the end of November, it's perfect. Thank you for that. However, allow me to make a comment. I certainly wouldn't close my eyes to the fact that there's a threat of correction. Thanks to the audit of the European Union and the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, I think that both the Czech Government and the Ministry should be prepared for possible reduction of funds. Although, of course, the government cannot wish for a reduction, there is still a threat. I certainly wouldn't say he doesn't exist. I'd just point that out. So I really want to ask what would happen in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u25	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u26	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but that's all over again. I'm not saying there's no threat. I say there is no correction to the Czech Republic. These are really two different concepts, and then the journalists chase us for words. If, of course, any correction occurs, whether individual, area, with anyone for anything, we are ready for it, we have systems for it. These are years of built-up systems within the periods we've been through. That is why we have also been instructed by the development of the past period by the programme, where the projects are really being implemented, so that we can make good use of all the European Union's money that is being offered to us. So the real concern that the Czech Republic is not prepared for something is not entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u27	Does anyone else want to speak in the debate on this written interview? If not, I am ending the debate and I am asking Mr Vojtěch Munzar if he is possibly proposing a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u28	I am not proposing a resolution at this point, but we may be getting back to that, at least to the part about the audit. I think that's what the program's been dedicated to since 11:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u29	Okay, thank you. This concludes the discussion of this written interpelation. Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek responded to the interview of Mr Miroslav Grebeníček on the situation in the National Gallery in Prague, the contribution organisation of the Ministry of Culture, the responsibility of former Director General Jiří Fajt for serious shortcomings and procedures affecting the National Gallery and its staff and regarding responsibility, quality and outcome of control activities and the procedure of the Ministry of Culture and conclusions and measures to address and overcome serious problems of the National Gallery in Prague. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 632. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Initiating debate. Mr Grebeníček is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to remind you of what I have to do to interpel the Minister of Culture on the situation in the National Gallery in Prague, the responsibility of former Director General Jiří Fajt for serious shortcomings and practices affecting the National Gallery and its staff, and the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture for control and measures to address and overcome the serious problems of the gallery has led to. The fact that the National Gallery has long become the focus of media attention in a number of adverse contexts is generally known. Information about the problems of personnel, economic, ethical and others has penetrated public discourse for years. With time, it is obvious that the problems did not weaken, but on the contrary, they multiplied. It happened that the predecessor of the current Minister of Culture decided to appeal the CEO Jiří Fajt and even send criminal charges to him for gross misconduct. In my opinion, the public is rightly concerned. I often had to give the critics of the conditions in the National Gallery the truth when they pointed out the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture as a founder for how the National Gallery performs its mission, how its CEOs perform and what happens in the gallery. I remind you that the National Gallery in Prague is neither independent of the state budget nor should it be a fungus and a milky cow of CEOs. It is a contribution organisation of the Ministry of Culture, which is legally obliged to fulfil the role of an important organisation whose main task or purpose is to carry out both basic and applied research and experimental development and to disseminate its results through scientific publications, exhibitions, educational programmes, methodologies. When I mentioned that the National Gallery has long damaged problems and procedures in the personnel area, then the case of the dismissed CEO Jiří Fajt did not begin, but only culminated. The Ministry of Culture's responsibility here is long-term. The failure of the Ministry to select directors and, in particular, to check how directors performed their duties and whether they acted in conflict of interest or in conflict with regulations and laws was already significant at the time when the Minister of Culture Pavel Dostál installed the second attempt, according to the media, with the help of ministerial officials, to the head of the Milan Knížák National Gallery. This step was attributed by some commentators to the so-called opposition agreement between the ČSSD and the ODS on the division of power. Even then, with passive access to the Ministry of Media-Grateful Cases, management problems, as well as specific efforts by the Director-General to promote themselves and their personal interests. When former Minister of Culture Daniel Herman decided in 2014, that he was installing the General Director Jiří Fajt, promoted originally by Minister Hanáková, four former directors of the National Gallery invited the Minister to not do so and to declare a proper tender. [[9.40 hours]] As early as 2015, the affair broke out when the President of the Republic refused to sign the appointment of Director of the National Gallery of Fajta as Professor. As a reason at the time, the president reported that Jiří Fajt had asked Komerční banka for a donation that would serve as a supplement to his normal salary. The president said at the time: If anyone expects me to name a college professor, for example, a man who asked for a million dollar bribe, he's just unlucky. According to the media, Jiří Fajt denied it at the time. As it was, I don't want to speculate. However, the affair, which contributed to the appeal of the director of the National Gallery by the Minister of Culture Staněk and took place in the media, was that the director of the National Gallery, dissatisfied with his salary, was to be approved by his subordinate rewards and taken up as director of activities to earn money in his own institution. In connection with the appeal of the director of the National Gallery and Transparency International, she published the opinion of her lawyer Petr Leyer. Quote: In the Prague National Gallery case, we pointed out irregularities in its management, which is our mission. Personal changes are not areas of our interest and we do not deal with them. We are mainly interested in the functional National Gallery as an institution. Transparency is really working by the fall method, so we distance ourselves from dragging our organization into a political struggle and we firmly believe that the new leadership of the Ministry of Culture will solve the matter well. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the human resources situation, the published information from the trade unions indicates that from 2014 to 2019 there were five reorganisations of the organizational structure of the National Gallery, some of which did not correspond to the valid status of the National Gallery. These organizational changes have significantly intervened in the professional activities of the National Gallery and have reduced its ability to perform the legal tasks. The National Gallery asked the Ministry of Culture for an extraordinary subsidy of tens of millions of crowns for the management of the elected director Jiří Fajt. In May this year the media then informed, again I will quote: The National Gallery Prague wants to buy a panel picture with the theme of the Annunciation of the Virgin Mary, which probably comes from the workshop of the Master of the Vyšebrodský cycle. The painting was offered in the auction for the starting price of CZK 2,800,000 a year ago. That's when the gallery didn't buy it. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see from the 632 press, I have asked the current Minister of Culture to answer questions regarding the Ministry of Culture's responsibility for control and the Ministry's procedures over the past five years. I have also asked for information on how the Ministry of Culture has responded so far and on what conclusions it has already reached with regard to the declaration of employees which arose during public disputes concerning the appeal of the former Director-General and which, on behalf of employees, their basic trade union organisation, pointed to serious facts in the personnel and salary policy and the practice of paying fees, as implemented under the direction of the elected Director-General of Fajt. I asked for information on the findings of the Ministry of Culture so far in connection with the suspicion of serious infringements of legal standards by the dismissed Director-General. I have received an answer from the Minister of Culture to my questions, which admits that in the case of the elected Director-General, there has been an unacceptable payment of remuneration and that this practice will no longer be tolerated by the Ministry. I have also noted the Minister's communication that he is taking steps to keep the Ministry informed about the situation in the National Gallery continuously and in detail in the future. The Minister referred to the fact that he was only in office for two months and that his predecessors were responsible for this activity. On the one hand, however, the Minister states that he believes, once again, I will quote that all the options that the Ministry of Culture has in managing this institution have not been used. On the other hand, on the other hand, the impression is that, I quote: I am not convinced that the identified deficiencies were serious enough to justify filing a criminal report. And that's probably why I wasn't happy with the answer. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely that the Minister argues in reply to my interpelation not with facts and accurate findings, but with his assumptions, and that instead of making a clear assessment of specific facts and findings, he communicates his conviction where he should inform about facts and findings and concrete conclusions, I was led to ask for the Minister of Culture's reply to be included for discussion. I believe that, in doing so, the number of problems and in their scale and seriousness, as mentioned in the specific facts as well as in the trade union organisation and suggesting Transparency International, the Minister should be more specific and consistent. Only in this way can he adequately face the reservations of those who express the view that the affairs, the damage caused and the gross infringement will again and again be swept under the carpet. All on my side so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u31	Thank you. And I'll ask the Minister for an answer. By the time he gets to the counter, I'll read an apology. Minister Marie Benešová apologizes on 5 December from 9.00 to 14.30 hours for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u32	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am actually quite grateful for the opening of the Czech National Gallery's question, and thank you for the interview at the Czech National Gallery, because I think it is such an important institution in terms of our national identity that it is good to talk about it and to find out about the state that is there and, eventually, to say something about the steps and events that have taken place recently. So I am really glad to be able to comment on this, and I hope that there will also be things in my speech that will respond and answer what Mr Grebeníček has asked. In fact, I will also probably share some dissatisfaction with how the National Gallery has worked in recent years. I understand from the Member's speech that I, like him, probably evaluate certain stages of the development of the gallery, for example at the time when he was head of the gallery, I believe, for ten years Mr Knížák was quite a warning point for the future, because it was a period of virtually isolation of the National Gallery from world events and from world galleries. We've actually stopped communicating with them, we've literally cut ourselves off from them, which I think has damaged us immensely, and it's incredible for me that the condition lasted for ten years. This means that the gallery of this type and meaning in the Czech Republic has been left to itself for a long ten years to develop into such an incomprehensible isolation and has actually been almost removed from the network of gallery institutions in Europe and the world. That's something, one wonders what should never happen again, and even the steps I've taken are going to prevent such a situation from ever happening again. So that what's happening at the National Gallery doesn't go completely out of control like it did back then. [[9.50 hours]] And I'd just like to say, before I immerse myself into this, there's no sense that the National Gallery is currently in trouble. So I would like to begin by pointing out to everyone that right now we are in a situation where we can really brag about something immensely. And then I'll do it for the beginning to frame the performance. I believe that the exhibition Old Masters, which was opened in the Schwarzenberg Palace, the author of which is Marius Winzerel and architect Josef Pleskot, is an absolutely extraordinary exhibition and I dare to say that there really was no such type of exhibition in this country, not even to be seen. So I repeat, visiting the Old Masters Exhibition in the Schwarzenberg Palace is an extraordinary experience, and I think even those who come from abroad and are used to very interesting installations, I don't know, London or New York, so I think they'll be surprised by what they see in Prague. And I don't think anyone could easily find anything like that and a similar kind of installation, so I'd say innovative and as impressive as the one we now have as the installation of the Old Masters in the Schwarzenberg Palace. I'm not gonna talk about details here, I'm gonna go there better, I'm just really proud of it. It's just that now that I've been to Paris, I've told Mr. President Lasvignes and Director of the Centre Pompidou that if they go to Prague, I suggest they go to see what we have in Prague today, that we can't miss it. But not only do we have an excellent exposition like this now in the Schwarzenberg Palace of the Old Masters, but at the same time I think it is also possible to recommend what the gallery presents today in the Czech modern art at the Trade Fair Palace. This is an exhibition of 1930 to the present, where you will find the works of František Muzika, Josef Šíma, Štýrský, Toyen, Zdeněk Sklenář, Kotík and others. And also this exhibition at the Trade Fair Palace today, I think it's delicious. So I'm just saying this as two examples from the National Gallery, which I'm really quite proud of, that they're presenting at this point and that these exhibitions are being offered to the public at this point because their level is really extraordinary. And it seems to me that when you look at this, you're going to say, there are problems in the National Gallery, but all the problems that were, they didn't prevent the two fancy expositions like this from being prepared, which I think even for the first time are paintings that we may not have really seen in those expositions that we've seen before. They get so much space and so much shine, they'll impress you in a way that hasn't been done in the past. The installation suddenly helps us to realize what we have in the National Gallery. I think it is a great experience and I am very glad because I was used to seeing something like this abroad in the past, and it is a great joy for me to see something like this in Prague today. So I have to tell you this, if I'm going to talk about the National Gallery here, I'm not talking about an institution that would just be staggering, but which is presenting in a great way at the moment, even at a level that you wouldn't be looking for in the past. And whoever doesn't believe me, I suggest you go to the Schwarzenberg Palace, maybe, and you'll be able to see the Rose Festival and a whole series of other paintings perfectly installed in such an environment and in such a way that I don't think they've ever been installed in this country before. There are paintings of excellent Czech masters, along with equally remarkable foreign artists. There is often no respectable timeline or national one, it is simply a completely new way and concept of how to exhibit artworks. But I think it's a great experience. So I'm sorry for this introduction, but I think it's quite important to say so that it's obvious that we're talking about the problems of the National Gallery, but at the same time it's not that she's not worth visiting, on the contrary, maybe today the visit will give someone a surprise and an experience that he didn't even expect - which is important to me. That means everything isn't lost. Let's focus on the problems, but in fact, there are people in the gallery today who are able to handle the things that are there in an absolutely excellent way. So that's the thing that makes me really happy. On the other hand, what Mr Grebeníček said was, of course, right about a number of things, because he points out events that were there not only during the period, let's say, Mr Knížák, but also recently. Criminal charges have been filed on the last director. So I have to point out here that these criminal reports, as far as I know and I have the right information, have been postponed, which means that there hasn't been any fulfillment of the fact that it would have been so serious that some crimes would have been committed, which I thought from the start, as I was familiar with it. And as for the current situation. You know that I was determined, not so long ago, to call off the director who was installed there, Mr Morávek, as director, because, frankly, I couldn't make any contact with him that we could trust each other, and I decided to appoint Mrs Nedmo, Anne-Marie Nedoma, as interim director, to consolidate the gallery - technically, organizationally, in person - until we decide on the new director of the Czech National Gallery. At the same time, I have created a Guarantee Council, which has about ten members, its chairman is architect Josef Pleskot, there are many interesting personalities. And the board began to work quite intensively to prepare a new status for the National Gallery and at the same time to prepare a way to decide and vote for the new director, event. set out how the group will be composed, the commission that will select the new director of the National Gallery. This assignment, I'm guessing it's six months tops, we're trying to push it down now. And in that time, the gallery has to answer questions about what we really want from the National Gallery, how we're going to deal with those spaces that we have an idea of what we're going to want from the director that we want to install there. And from answering these questions, we should go to who we really need as director. Because the question of who the director of the National Gallery is supposed to be isn't that simple. You see, there are countries where it's more like kunsthistorik, elsewhere it's more like a manager, somewhere they even create such control systems that it's kind of a double that meets both of those things. Now that I was at the Centre Pompidou, I was quite inspired by the way the president works there with the CEO of the famous gallery, and I found it quite an inspiration for our solution. But that means that the Guarantee Board today has to decide how to run the gallery and what task we're going to give the director, who's going to be there, what to watch, what priorities and tasks he's going to have. So that what happened all those years ago didn't happen, that for ten years there was just something going on that was completely out of control. And the Guarantee Board, after it appoints this selection committee, will select the Director. And the Guarantee Board will not end its work by selecting the Director, because its task will be to create some sort of supervision and in some way monitor what is going on in the gallery and if the Director is fulfilling what is being appointed to the gallery. So it's a system where I'd like to keep things from happening again and again in the past, unfortunately, that the gallery was actually out of sight, some technical reflection of what's going on there. And I'm gonna tell you right now that this principle that I used at the National Gallery is what I want to use, and so I'm starting now, at the National Theatre and at the National Library. So this principle of professional consulting bodies, which I call a guarantee board, I create as a system of certain reflections, some sort of control of the place where it reflects what's going on in that institution, and it's constantly being watched. This should prevent the National Gallery from being in such situations as it has been in the past. [[10.00 hours]] I think I can tell you now that the National Gallery Guarantee Board is working very intensively, meeting very intensively, so it is quite a difficult thing for those who are there. And I am convinced that she will accomplish the task and that she will keep the time that we have set up to decide how we want to vote for the director of the National Gallery, how it will be composed by the committee, who is to do it, who we want there, and what task we will give him, what we will actually want him to do. So that's the perspective of the next development. I know that in the last few days, the public has noticed with some excitement that Ms. current director AnneMarie Nedoma has called off Mr. Adam Budak's special curator. He was previously in the position of chief curator, now only as a special curator, and the appeal attracted some attention, we received certain petitions. So now I'm going to take advantage of that possibility and I'm going to make my point. Look, I believe that, however possible, Mr Adam Budak's appeal has been done in such a way that it has not been completely understandable, which I have put a bit of pressure on the Director, I have no doubt that the reasons which led to Mr Budak's appeal have been absolutely clear and unambiguous. Not only because Mr Budak did not submit to the Exhibition Council for approval any own feasible project for 2020, although he was invited to do so, but mainly because Mr Budak was not quite who he claimed to be. Turns out, in his CV, when he joined the National Gallery for Mr. Director Fajt, he gave false information. He provided information that he worked for several years at the Smith and Union Institute Gallery of Washington, an art gallery, and it turned out that he had not worked there for several years, as he said, but that he worked there for only a few months, and then was released for the day for losing confidence for the misuse of funds. And even as we can read, he was led out by the gallery security guard because he refused to leave. And the practice of misusing funds for which he was fired from Smith and Union, I think it basically continued in the Prague National Gallery. We actually have a whole range of information today about how he treated the funds, how he abused them in the case of trips to places where he had no competence to travel, because he had nothing to arrange there for the National Gallery, the costs of these trips and the costs of the events he organised and which could be difficult to justify in terms of the tasks he had. And, of course, a whole series of things that crossed the code of ethics of the gallery, or even the code of ethics of galleries of this type in Europe and in the world, when it was actually collected for the display of paintings in the National Gallery, so it was collected money from the artists, which, as you probably know, is very unusual, because when an artist exhibits in a similar gallery, it is for him such a thing that automatically raises the prices of his paintings, and he does not need to get paid for it. And then there are other and other things, some, I confess, hard to prove, but we have quite a lot of suspicion that they took place in connection with private galleries and cooperation with them, all things prohibited for curator or principal curator of such a type of gallery as the Czech National Gallery. This means that in such a type of gallery, if someone uses these business methods and acts as an art dealer, it has nothing to do with how someone who needs to be the principal curator of the Czech National Gallery, curator of such a state institution, as you can see in London, in the United States, France, Germany and for which certain rules apply, which have clearly been very strongly violated here. So when I got to know almost the whole list of what he was doing, and many of these things can be explained very accurately, I obviously had to agree that Mr. Budak had nothing to do with the National Gallery, and I fully stood up for what Mrs. Nedoma had done. It was exactly what I wanted her to do when I appointed her as director of the National Gallery, so I wanted her to find out what the situation actually looked like and to do something like a technical, organizational and personnel audit of the situation, to prepare the National Gallery for the arrival of a new director and to be in a consolidated environment in which she could perform what we would ask for. So I'm actually more or less satisfied with these steps that have taken place here. A special chapter is what Mr Grebeníček mentioned and regarding the purchase of paintings. This is quite a complex chapter, although not so terribly complex, and it is quite informative of what has happened in recent days, because over the past few months it has actually been in the history of some of these paintings, such as the picture of the Annunciation or Madonna in Dijon, de facto revealed where there are probably real experts you can rely on and where, on the contrary, relatively inaccurate and misleading information about the values of works, especially Czech works that appear on the world market. And she basically confirmed that the value of those so-called bohemians, those Czech Gothic paintings, is huge on the world market. I'd almost say dizzy. The fact that a small plate of Czech Madonna with a child has now been sold in Dijon, really small, for 158 million, is such the best information about how Czech Gothic art is standing on the world market today. And I know that those who actually deal with it and move on the market today and are really competent have actually been making this announcement for a long time. The price of these Czech gods, the interest in them is immense and we now see it in reality. The fact that recently failed to get to the Czech Goddess, and I am almost afraid that the picture of the Annunciation is now becoming quite poorly available for the Czech National Gallery after this development in Dijon, because it is evident that the auction in the world will again be significant. The picture of the Annunciation is even bigger than the painting of the Madonna with the baby. I think it is clear that we do not have much chance in this audit market as the Czech Republic. If we are opposed to giants like the Metropolitan Museum of New York, they are able to arrive at such auctions with many times the means and de facto always overpay us. So the chance for our experts is, if we are able to deal directly with those where the images appear, actually prevent them from getting to the auctions at all, and that is, of course, very difficult and it is something that requires perhaps a special way of strategy to have a chance to get to such images in the future. For me, the way it all turned out, it simply follows that one can now imagine whose expert opinions were completely misleading and inaccurate and where we can find those who have correctly estimated the situation. If I put it simply, I think trust in buying these works should be gained by the National Gallery in the future. To be absolutely specific, I trust people such as Marius Winzeler, Director of the Collection of Old Arts, just one of the authors of the contemporary exhibition of the old masters in the Schwarzenberg Palace, which I think has been shown to be correct and accurate throughout what he said. So I think it will be necessary to simplify the system of purchasing works abroad in the future, because the system that has worked here so far, that there was one commission in the National Theatre and the other in the Ministry and there were various opinions, was lengthy and inefficient and leads me to the fact that in the end everything in the market will escape. I believe that it will be necessary to give confidence to the National Gallery, which will be in such a condition that we will be able to rely on its work, and it is necessary to eliminate the too lengthy one, as I said, the inefficient system that has been here so far, where we have a lot of expert opinions that are dramatically different and that are ultimately useless to us in this amount. So I believe that there is a way out of this situation, and I think that simplicity is that the National Gallery, which today, is simply responsible for buying, turns out that it has experts who have best guessed the situation, and they need to be trusted because they have proved it in fact. [[10.10 hours]] So I can be more specific, if this is not enough, the issue of buying paintings, because she is quite complicated enough. Now I'm saying more about the conclusions that are coming out of this for me, because I'm also, of course, sorry that we couldn't get to those paintings, and I think it was possible to at least try other strategies, because going into an open confrontation and confronting the Metropolitan Museum in New York at auction is just a losing issue. That doesn't even give us a chance in the future. The Metropolitan Museum seems to be buying Godemics with complete certainty, overview, and are able to arrive with hundreds of millions of dollars and buy everything they come across. Why don't you guys go over there? They're gathering from Africa, from Asia, from all over the world today. It's obvious they have enormous resources. In the past, however, the Brooklyn Museum, which was previously more important than that metropolitan New York City, was also overrun by these enormous means. But just recently, I spoke to the representatives of the Brooklyn Museum, so they told me they were unable to face metropolitní money. In fact, it was a matter of time before they were able to overwhelm them from the point of view of meaning and strength because they paid it with huge money. The Metropolitan Museum is great today, and the beauty is, of course, bought out primarily by the amazing financial resources at its disposal. So even the Czech bohemian... The only thing we can rejoice about seeing in the Metropolitan Museum is the Czech bohemianism exhibited appropriately for a huge number of visitors from around the world, so it will be an honor for us because I have no doubt that they will get the appropriate seats in New York and will be seen there truly. Anyway, I guess we'd rather have them at home. However, it turned out to be unattainable. So much for that. I would still like to think that Mr Grebeníček may not be mad at me, although I am still prepared to complete my answer, or to meet him and to clarify these things, because I think they can be interpreted. Let me make one more small remark that you may allow me to make, because here last night in the evening I was quite harshly attacked by Mr Kalousek, but it was late at night and I was asked not to interfere with the debate because I was told that it was late and that we would not be able to discuss all the parts of the budget. So I kept the answer saying I didn't want to delay. But today, at least in a minute, I would like to respond to what was said here yesterday from Mr Kalousek's mouth, which also concerned culture and funding to culture, when he said it was absolutely shameful that as Minister of Culture, I accepted the medium-term outlook of the Chapter of Culture for 2020. I would like to tell you here that what Mr Kalousek has shown here has been quite a lot of mystification, because he has worked with the fact that I, as Minister of Culture, have accepted the medium-term outlook for the budget, chapter of culture, and the medium-term outlook for this budget for 2020 in the form he said is half a billion less than the current budget this year. [[Secretary Schiller suggests he was talking about 2022.]] He was talking about 2022. It doesn't matter. The essence is the same everywhere. I would like to inform you, I have the same experience from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the medium-term outlooks we worked with have always been severed, both in the case of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the case of the Ministry of Culture. I've always understood the medium-term view as such a starting line. That's where the negotiations begin. And the point is, if you look at the budgets of culture, you'll find that from 2011 to today, they've gone from 7 billion to 12 billion. This means that the budget of culture is actually constantly increasing. The real budget is growing. The medium-term view also grows, but it grows on far lower ones. Those are the starting lines. You're just on a much lower level. But it's also growing. And it even grows in 2018, 2019, 2020. It's growing slower, it's the base. The current budget is always higher. If I were to give you an example, for example, in 2019 the budget medium-term outlook was, say, over 12 billion. But the reality was 14 billion, let's say 2 billion higher. What has now been negotiated is two or three billion higher. And it's for next year anyway. The medium-term outlook for 2020 is higher than the one for 2019. But we negotiated the current one much higher again. That means you can compare the medium-term outlooks that grow slower below the current levels. The current negotiated ones are just so much higher. And they are negotiated in July, August, and that is where the actual size of the budget is to be reached. Because I know this practice, I wasn't really in the government myself when the medium-term outlook was negotiated, it was done before, like in May, June, so I didn't even get a chance to talk about it. And then I focused on making the current budget much stronger, which I did. And because I know that the medium-term outlooks are moving at a lower level, that's the base, that's the low one, so I just understood that it's the same practice I knew from the State Department, and that next year, we're gonna be talking about the actual current budget from this base. In my opinion, you can compare medium-term outlooks between each other and current outlooks between each other. And what matters to me is that this year, the minimum that I have requested has been enforced, and that is what the government has agreed with me. I also know that it is higher for the medium-term outlook next year than the medium-term outlook for the year preceding. And I assume that we can discuss the current budget, which will be higher again, and that these negotiations will be successful, as I hope. That means what Mr Kalousek here has done, it was quite interesting such a game of numbers that can be demonstrated by the alleged disgrace of the Minister. But I think it needs to be seen that reality is really different. I am prepared to do everything I can to negotiate the next budget for 2022 to make the current budget rise again so as to continue the trend that is today and which results in the Ministry of Culture's budget rising by about 5 billion over the last years. The current budget and its growth are crucial. A medium-term view as a base, it's just a work thing. Consider what the outcome is. Consider the current budget results. It seems to me that the debate that Mr Kalousek here has started is a debate that you can easily crucify someone, especially by the numbers that somebody pulls out and shows, they're talking about failure. This is simply disrespect for how this budget negotiations actually take place, and disrespect for what really is a struggle for a decent budget of culture. I'm ready to lead. So I completely reject my shameful failure, also because I am glad that this year, for example, I managed to agree in government and increase the means for living art by 250 million, which was the crucial thing I wanted. You know, that's the reality. That's the fact that went well. That's why I'm not ashamed of what I've done here with the budget. I am not ashamed that the film incentives have been increased by 500 million. We were able to find a deal with Secretary Schillerová and the Prime Minister in the government as well. And I think it's a pretty crucial rumor for a Czech film. So these are the things we talk about. Where I managed to push through the budget what I felt as a matter of urgency during the short time I was here. And the total amount of the budget - one may not be happy about it, but it is at least the minimum that one can work with. And I'm also ready to work on the next year's budget, on that medium-term perspective base that I'm not satisfied with, which I'm putting again just as a starting line. And I would have liked you to judge me after what would be the real current budget after the negotiations that we're going to run. That's what I'd like us to talk about. Let's not talk about the medium term, which I always know is cut, and I always only take it as the first sketch of what's being negotiated afterwards. To me, it seems so unfair and so inconvenient from Mr. Kalousek that he just stepped out here at a time when there was no time left, sometimes before midnight, when no one wanted to listen to it, and suddenly start yelling at the minister: you absolutely failed, that's completely shameful and so on. Such big words, which are actually far from a really rational, solid budget debate. And I don't think that if we can't talk in the House with some kind of peace and no desire to turn each other into a criminal, then the debate is losing its sense. I repeat, nothing shameful is happening. Although I am not satisfied with the money for culture, I intend to fight for it step by step systematically and convince the government and you that culture deserves more attention. But you can't do it here with these expressions that are more confusing than explaining things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u33	Good morning, honourable Members. I'm tolerance alone. Since the Minister has the right of priority, and he can therefore also talk about topics other than the topic of interpelation, I have let him finish talking. But he raised three factual points and the reaction of President Miroslav Kalousek with priority rights. [[10.20 hours]] Before I give the floor to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's first factual remark, I will read the apologies. Miloslava Rutová and Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes for reasons of work between 16 and 18 o'clock and extends their apology until 10.30 o'clock. Now, therefore, the first factual comment of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, then Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Leo Luzar and Miroslav Kalousek. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to Mr Grebeníček's introductory words on the interpellation of Mr Grebeníček and now with the interest of Minister Zaorálek. I don't know if I'm hearing it wrong, or Mr. Zaorálek's not talking right, but basically he didn't answer any of the things that the interpelation was supposed to be about. Minister, if you're listening to me, I know you want to set this up, but listen to me: If one day you won't make a living here in the Chamber of Deputies with your mouth, go do the vegetables! Fruit-vegetable, mix it up normally, make it smoothie, and it'll be normal cool. You'll be fine, you'll be making millions. Because you can pay the fifth over nine and don't answer a damn thing. You know, you talk about everything here, but basically nothing. You're talking about some Budak who wasn't even part of the interpelation, you're going to say that he's been stealing in America somewhere in the past, that he's also been stealing or that there's a suspicion that he's been stealing. And I'm asking you, do you suspect that a criminal complaint has already been filed? Do the law enforcement authorities deal with this? Did you investigate his crimes at the National Gallery, or are you just making strong words and strong statements and deed have escaped because you don't have the courage to file a criminal report? Then you will say in vain: I will comment here on Mr Kalousek's statement - which was not even present at the time. And you say, "I'll tell you in a minute." So your minute started at 10.11 and ended at 10.10. In a minute, that means eight minutes. And you're dealing with something that has nothing to do with the interpelling. This is logically something that my colleague Kalousek will respond to, and I don't blame him. So, Minister, it's a disgrace what you're doing here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual comment by Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Leo Luzar, Miroslav Kalousek. And is the Minister reporting with de facto or properly? So de facto, okay, but you'll be fourth. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to what Mr. Zaorálek has shown here about the budgetary perspective. Firstly, I do not share your interpretation, Mr President, by your means, that it can speak outside the subject, because it has a preferential right. If the speaker wants to speak with priority rights outside the topic, he should use it. It's not like he's just gonna say a minute here, then we're talking x minutes about a completely unrelated thing. And above all, with the argument that it was late yesterday, so today it's going to be discussed here at a point that doesn't belong at all, it's blocking the negotiation of another interpelration. And I find it extremely unsound. Here, the government coalition first asserts that the government's budgetary perspective will be discussed at midnight, and then criticizes the opposition for allowing them to discuss the budgetary perspective at midnight! It seems to me completely crazy that instead of discussing a very important budget document at a normal time when it is possible to have a normal debate about it, the Minister of Culture here is making excuses that he couldn't discuss it yesterday because it wouldn't have been possible. I find that completely shameful. And secondly, here are two options: either Mr Kalousek is right and the culture budget will be cut off and it is a problem. Or Mr Zaorálek is right, and the budget of culture will grow, even though there is a decline in the outlook. But that means that the budgetary perspective is a piece of paper, and then we don't have to deal with it at all! This may be even more trouble than the impending fall! When this key document, according to which budget planning is to be planned for the next three years, doesn't correspond to reality at all. I pointed out yesterday that it doesn't include raising civil servants' salaries, at all, so that manko 40 billion is just nonsense, as it's designed there. Well, then it needs to be changed, not said-- I'm done. [[The President is speaking.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u37	Mr Leo Luzar, with a factual remark. It was also not about your factual comment on the topic of the interpelation of Miroslav Grebeníček, but I respect that it was a factual comment on the speech of the Minister of Culture. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u38	Thank you for the floor. Since the previous speakers have already opened some questions, we all know that we have found that a minute at the Ministry of Culture lasts ten minutes. We all realized how difficult it is to convince artists whether the blue period is more light blue or dark blue, and that they have different opinions and according to this development of Czech art will be affected for the next hundred years. We all understood that the purchase of paintings is something similar to the draft of Jaromír Jágr to America. That whoever has more money wins. And those players, although Czech and national, play in other sections and are displayed in other jerseys, e.g. In America. And that the Minister of Culture is as concerned as the Minister, if we had sport, so, now there's education and sport. And that these are the problems that the National Gallery has. But I'm going back to the beginning because I really don't realize that there was an answer to the interpellation about the current situation in the National Gallery. Let's go back to the beginning! The National Gallery was dehonested by its former or revoked director within at least Europe. Dozens of important artists, important people who move in culture, have not been responded to. They stood up like one man and a woman for a suspended director. I don't know what arguments they've drawn from that the Minister of Culture has done something. And the company felt it very negatively. And since then, it has never sounded out of the mouths of those responsible for what actually happened. Or if at least these important people were contacted and they were told the facts about this situation that remained. So far, it seems to be strongly relativized either from the mouth or from the articles of Mr. former Director Fajt, possibly. Even after the arrival of the new Minister of Culture, as in the fact that he is disturbing the steps of the previous Minister, it also does not testify to, say, a continuous view and procedure. And it's just -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u39	Your time for a point of fact is over, Mr. Ambassador. Now a factual comment by Miroslav Kalousek, then a factual comment by the Minister of Culture and then Zdeněk Ondráček. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u40	Thank you. In the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I respond to the Minister's speech by a factual remark. Mr. Secretary, you're complaining that I've been making incorrect arguments here, but these are your numbers, please. These are the government figures that have been submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. And what's wrong with quoting them? And it's just a fact, and you're not going to excuse that, between 2020 and 2021, there's going to be a half-billion decline in the Ministry of Culture. That is why you voted, and I protested against it, and I cannot accept the argument as a Member: do not worry about it at all, in fact it will be different! Well, then why are you bringing it up here? That's just a document we're supposed to take seriously, that's a government document, so if I'm gonna take it seriously, I have to take note that you're counting on a half-billion dollar drop at the Ministry of Culture. If I'm not to take him seriously - how dare you even present him to us and want us to acknowledge him? There's no other connection! So I just can't accept this argument. What I'm glad to hear is that you don't want to accept that number, that you're ready to correct that mistake, and here you can rely on our support, because we don't want to accept it, unlike you, with a half-billion dollar decline in the Ministry of Culture. So if you want the money to be higher, we'll be happy to support you. But don't tell me you didn't raise your hand for it. Picked up! And the document is serious because it's a serious document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual remark from the Minister of Culture. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u42	Thank you. I'd just like to point out, I think, the Pirate Club, if I was watching, 13 Pirates last night supported the vote by midnight. That means, it wasn't that the government coalition made up its mind, it was the deal we made here. So I'm among those who appreciate the fact that there's been a deal between the coalition and the opposition. It was our decision together, it wasn't like we forced something on you here. [[10.30 hours]] Then I would like to respond to this, I believe that was what Mr Luzar said, regarding the criminal complaint. Look, as far as Mr. Budak is concerned, this is all I've said here - and there was a word in my mouth that I didn't use at all. I said that he broke the code of ethics that applies in all similar galleries such as the National Gallery, violated it on specific points that I don't want to repeat here, and there are suspicions that he was simply doing business with the paintings to a greater extent, but we would have to collect testimony and it is a very difficult thing to prove. So, of course, we have suspicions that we didn't make public afterwards. We said that the violation of the Code of Ethics was so crucial that I think it makes it impossible for him to continue this gallery. And I even think that this is important information for all the others who would like to hire him, like I think that after the Washington incident in the United States, someone won't just hire him anymore. So it was just a mistake that he even took up this position. It was important to say this here, because petitions were being sent on this matter, even from abroad. And our approach to petitions, the one I'm practicing today, so any minute now someone is writing a petition, is that I wanted all the addresses of all petents to be collected, and I specifically ordered each pettent to send arguments about why Mr Budak's work had ended. And that's how we're always gonna do it. If there are petitions, all petents will be given arguments and reasons why this has happened. I don't know how it was done in the past, but today we're taking everyone--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u43	Minister, you too have completed your time for a point of fact. Now Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's factual comment and another factual comment by Mr Ivan Bartoš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your intention was precisely successful because you had to, or did not have to, draw attention from the interpelation for ten minutes, or from the answer, or at least from the attempt to answer Mr Grebeníčk, so you spoke about the medium term and logically had to, but both colleague Ferjenčík and colleague Kalousek responded, and of course they both talked about something completely different than the subject of the interpelration. But they responded to the debate. You know, we can pull up the log that you listed or didn't mention about Budak. You just said - I was just writing it down right away: We suspect he was doing something there, but it's difficult to investigate. So leave it if you can't, and give it to someone who can. That's why we have law enforcement agencies, if you suspect it, give it to the police, and the police will investigate. It's complicated. Yes, the investigation is a complex process, so don't get involved in something you don't know, and give it to someone who can. At the same time, in your debate earlier, you spoke to the point that there were some dishonest experts and that the man was giving God knows what. So let me warn you that there is a criminal code in Section 346 of the Criminal Code - false statements and submissions of a false expert opinion. So if anybody did something like that and you suspect something like that, then fucking file a criminal report and let somebody investigate it and don't play investigator if you can't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Ivan Bartoš's point of view now. You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u46	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I'm glad the debate is returning to the original content of the interpellation. I'd just like to ask Minister Zaorálek, we voted yesterday to be held after 7:00 until midnight. Many people have been watching the Czech Chamber of Deputies discussing the budget all day, and it happened because for three hours, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who delayed the whole thing, came here to apologize to Mr Faltýnek in the evening. So let's figure out why the whole thing went through and that it was the generosity of our pirát voting for the extension because we wanted to discuss it. But we've taken on the biggest slide here because of the exhibition of Prime Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and I have no application for a debate. Now, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček with a proposal. Let's get back to the subject. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to remind you that the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek recently pointed out the way in which he removed Adam Budak from the position of curator of special projects of the gallery. AnnaMarie Nedoma, who was appointed by the Minister to manage the institution at the end of September of this year, is expected to consult the Ministry next. The reasons for Nedoma's appeal to Budak Zaorálek, but the Minister considers it serious. In mid-November, Ned released curator Budak, who was brought to the institution by her former director Fajt. She justified her move by the excesses of Budakův's position and by the fact that Budakův's release was, among other things, necessary for the consolidation of the gallery from an organisational and financial point of view. There was indeed a petition against Budak's appeal, which reads that the circumstances of Adam Budak's release - or the circumstances of Adam Budak's release - against at least controversial and ethically debatable. Minister Zaorálek then accused the interim director of the way in which Adam Budak was removed and of the inexcusably and vaguely informing the public about this matter. However, he considered the reasons given to him by the Director-General for the appeal of Budak to be serious. The interim director of the National Gallery subsequently appointed the minister of culture and the guarantee board of the gallery as the main arguments for the appeal of Budak as not submitting to the exhibition board of the gallery for approval a single actually realized project for 2020, making business trips with no clear purpose and contribution to the gallery associated with extreme travel expenses, or paying off some artists whose exhibitions he had promoted, high fees for creating works and exhibitions in the National Gallery. According to the director, artists usually exhibit in a prestigious gallery, and thus in noncommercial museums, without entitlement to fees. According to Budak, on entering the National Gallery, he signed a declaration that he was not engaged in any other gainful activity, although he was subsequently engaged in it. Nedoma also said that Budak deliberately distorted his previous practice, its length and reasons for termination of employment. It is clear from how serious personnel problems, management problems, management problems and others have been encountered by the National Gallery in Prague, that the solution requires emphasis and consistency. Trying to counter these problems and avoid proper investigation of all serious gross misconduct would be the worst thing the National Gallery needs today. This would be based on the continuation and repetition of completely unacceptable practice in the future. After all, as far as things have gone, I believe that the Minister's efforts to address all serious suspicions by the Ministry's own forces have a certain degree of justification. The fact is, however, that the Ministry has long failed to control and exercise its competences towards the National Gallery at the time of the former Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. However, I want to believe that it is the Ministry and not the authorities responsible for this that would be able to save the nature and extent of gross failures and errors of the Director-General or other persons. [[10.40 hours]] No, therefore, it is not just Jiří Fajt, who allegedly illegally acquired financial resources at the expense of employees, which brings in the proper control. It is primarily the strange money channels that make millions of taxpayers' pockets disappear. In our country, however, applicable laws should apply to everyone. All indications suggest that the current Minister of Culture is fully aware of this. It is this statement that I want to end my intervention on the Minister of Culture. In case I find that nothing's been dealt with, I'm counting on getting back to you with a lot more emphasis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u49	I thank Mr Grebeníčk. Minister Zaorálek wants to respond? [[Yes.]] Before I give you my word, I have apologized to Mrs Jana Černochová for her participation in today's meeting, for work reasons, and it is an apology for the whole day. Now, therefore, with an additional answer, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u50	Yes, thank you. I still insist that I am glad that the National Gallery is being discussed here and that there is talk of funds that relate to culture and cultural institutions, because it seems to me that this should be a topic that is more common here than has been mentioned so far. And I think I understand the concerns that Mr Grebeníček has raised here, and I understand that. And I am actually of the same interest if certain practices are found in cultural institutions, so I have the same interest to make it clear that these are things that will not be tolerated, and this needs to be done absolutely clearly. Perhaps that is why I had some reservations about the first performance of the Director, because I felt that she had given the reasons for actually ending the affair with Mr Budak very abstractly and very generally. And it's even caused a sense of something hiding behind it, some other competitive struggle between galleries and the like. So what really bothered me wasn't that she did it, but the fact that by expressing too general and so veiled, she actually created a suspicion that there was something going on again in the National Gallery that wasn't transparent and that the public couldn't understand. That was my reservation. I was convinced that from the first moment it should have been made clear: someone here violated this, this, what I said clearly, violated the code of ethics. And a code of ethics in institutions like this means a lot. It just seems to you that these are some kind of moral rules, but there it means something fundamental, because it often means that somewhere some financial benefits arise. Do you understand? I repeat, when someone is simply exhibiting in a top-notch institution, the price of the works of the person may be rising by 20 percent up in the private galleries. This means that it has such specific implications. The violation of the rules is actually entering the business immediately. And here, this has to be separated. The galleries that manage public funds must be separated, and the world of commerce and business must be separated. It's not easy, but on the other hand, it exists in the world. The rules are just respected. In respectable institutions, everyone knows that there are things they can do, and there are things they can't do. And here it just happened that somebody might have used some sort of unwinding situation in the Czech National Gallery, because there was a change of directors and so on, and that suddenly it became Eldorado for someone who acted like a businessman. And we had to -- and that's what I'm glad happened, we made it clear, this is not going to happen. I know, ma'am. Nemo also made some management measures, changed the way of driving in the National Gallery from five-stage to three-stage. It has simply carried out a number of such rationalization actions concerning management techniques relating to funds and their treatment. It's just about making order in this institution. That was exactly what I asked her to do. And part of that was to solve the problem of Mr. Budak's former chief curator. But I feel like we've been able to say this, that we've been able to defend it, and that's something I'm glad we're talking about, just to make it clear that we're not afraid to talk about it. These steps should also be understandable because I would want the National Gallery to become a popular institution in the Czech Republic, which people like to visit. Just like the Tate Gallery in London, like the Metropolitan Museum in New York City, like a number of other galleries with which people love to identify themselves and visit them in mass. That's something I'd like to change. And the basis of that is the trust that the gallery has. That's why I think talking about making it clear and showing that these things are transparent today is a very important thing for me, and that's why I'm happy for this interpelation, and for the fact that I can respond to that. And here's what they said we shouldn't investigate. You understand, in every institution like this, you're in a situation where you're wondering how I'm gonna handle these findings. And you're assessing whether you have a chance, whether it's a thing that you're going to characterize as on the verge of criminal acts, you're going to turn on the shelf or not. That's something you always have to reconsider. Of course, we're not investigators, but we always have to figure out at what level our findings are, if that's what makes sense to make it suspicious of committing a crime or something. I believe that this must be handled very carefully. You know, there's been a history of criminal charges. There's been a criminal complaint against Mr. Fajt, it's been postponed. The criminal report that was filed in Olomouc, it's all been postponed, too. It's not like I can file criminal charges on sight. I take it it's something that's very serious, and then it falls to the reputation of the person, and there are a number of consequences. So that's, I'm sorry, but that's just an assessment you've got in a situation where you can figure out how far I'm going to go. In the case of Mr. Budak, I said, it's not just that I agree to continue the criminalizations again. I know that certain rules have definitely been violated, it's a violation of the code of ethics, and it's reason enough to end up with Mr. Budak at the gallery. I'm sure of it. But I don't want to just file criminal charges like they did in the past, which are delayed afterwards. Because I've had a chance to talk to cops more times about that sort of thing. And you, when you file a criminal report, you have to tell exactly where the crime happened, in the meantime, if it was a fraud, who was cheated. You need to put a whole bunch of things in order to make sense of this criminal report. And it's you who deal with it that you know it doesn't have to be easy. That's why I think you have to be very responsible about this. So, such arguments here - don't investigate, let it be investigated by others. I don't think it's that simple. But I think we're doing the best we can, and that even in this case, we did exactly what we had. And I think it's at the level at which it was supposed to be handled. And I'm also glad we're talking about funding for culture today. And I'm sorry it couldn't have happened last night, because I was very upset about it, the words that were said here. But it seemed to me that before midnight there were really bad conditions for us to start discussing the chapter of culture, in that atmosphere it seemed senseless to me. But here I am worth saying that saying that we accepted or that I accepted the reduction in the chapter of culture -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u51	Minister, I would really, really ask you if you would look at the topic of the interpelation, because here we have two more factual points on the topic of interpellation, and we have already made a circle of these relations with the budgetary perspective, so please, if you want to do this, we need to set another point for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u52	I understand, Mr President, that I will quickly put an end to this. Although I saw the connection there, but I'm gonna end it. I'm just glad that we're having fun and that there are more people here who are concerned about the size of the chapter of culture next year, 2020 and 2021. And I can guarantee here that if anyone tries to engage in the utmost of our resources and to be able to use them as best as possible, I see these Members as my allies. So what I would like to say here is that accepting the medium-term perspective didn't exactly mean that I would accept a reduction in the actual current budget of the Ministry of Culture for the future. And I hope to be able to prove to you that we will be able to find dignified money for this, and if the House and Members can help me in this, I will only be happy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u53	Thank you. Now two factual points. The first is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, the second is Mr Antonín Staněk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, you know, all I know about the problems of the National Gallery is what I read in the media or what you and Mr Grebeníček were able to say today. That's why I could only respond to the words that were said here. And you were simply talking about Mr Budak, his virtually criminal past in the United States, and that they continued this activity here in the Czech Republic. Let's keep an eye on the tapes. We can sit down. Either you blew it up for nothing, or I just reacted to what you're saying. So that's why I said: file a criminal report, let someone who can investigate investigate it, and don't rush into it if you can't. I would very much like what you are saying that you would like the National Gallery to be the institution, such as abroad, etc. But in order to do so, there must be a cleansing of all the evil that was in the National Gallery, whether in the past or in the past recently, after your arrival in office, and simply give it the possibility of a cleansing process. And the cleansing process isn't sweeping under the carpet and saying that there was basically nothing done there, that we would sort of smooth it out. The cleansing process takes place by giving way of law. Law as such. And if anyone broke the law, and it doesn't matter if he broke the law criminally, which is the ultima ratio, the very last one, then file a criminal report. If anyone violated employment regulations, which is also a law, then just follow the Labour Code, which you may have done. But give way to the law and, of course, tell me what the problems were, and answer what Mr Grebeníček and the rest of us are asking. How you solve these problems and how you solve them. And let's not talk about mixing smoothies with apples and pears, add blueberries, and I don't know what else has been going on here for almost an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Antonín Staněk's point of fact and another factual point then by Ivan Bartoš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u56	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I may have just one comment on what was said here. I don't want to start any relationships. I just want to ask, and judge for yourself. What's more correct? When you receive an analytical analysis of the legal department that you are obliged, on the basis of the findings of internal controls, to file a criminal complaint which is subsequently investigated by law enforcement authorities and which, if necessary, will result in the fact that the offences described in the criminal notification are not a criminal offence and that the proceedings are postponed? Thus, as has been said here, the person is cleared from the criminal point of view, but this does not mean that there were no errors which may lead to various corrections in the field of financial penalties. Or if a person is completely publicly referred to as a criminal here, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, where he basically has no chance of defending himself against these claims, and we don't really know what the truth is. Is Mr. Budak such a criminal, as has been said here? Is there any way he can defend himself? I just don't like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point will be from Mr Ivan Bartoš. But before I give him my word, I state another extension of Mrs Věra Kovářová's apology, within 11 hours. Now Ivan Bartoš's point of view. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u58	So we're approaching the famous eleven o'clock. I would just like to say that I am very sorry for the behaviour of Minister Zaorálek, who here, when Mrs Schillerová was here, has probably blinked with her or something to stimulate a very fundamental interpelation, which is very important even at this point, and that is the corrections in the history of European subsidies, when one of the ministers here in the interpellations is talking about the fact that something had to be returned, the Prime Minister is talking about the citizens' loss of 30 billion. And I do not know why, in the case of a very simple interpelation, which asked about the functioning of the gallery, Mr Zaorálek here, who criticized the historical cooperation of social democracy and YES, he simply filled the time for Mrs Schillerová to leave and for Members and citizens to hear how none of the ministry knew how much the subsidies were supposed to be. So thank you. I'm gonna have to deal with it at that point that starts at 11:00. But I'm waiting here for a very crucial statement from the Minister. And now Mr. Zaorálek has simply helped the government, which he may have historically criticized. I don't see why we talked about the topics you raised here and why we killed an hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u59	The only thing I can say is that, of course, if this interpelation is over, we still have five minutes to open another interpelation. I'll open it, too. And I have no other application for a debate. I therefore ask Mr Miroslav Grebeníček if he is interested in the motion for a resolution. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have made it clear that the Minister of Culture does not hide the problems that move the National Gallery. And if he signals, if he can't solve some problems, then he's the one who's gonna initiate the prosecution, then I'm gonna acknowledge it, and I don't think it's necessary to adopt a special resolution here, because it's been made public and it's gonna be under public control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u61	Thank you. In that case, I can terminate this interpelation. And before I begin to interpel Mr Bartoš, I state the apology of Karel Krejza between 11 and 19 o'clock for personal reasons. Thank you to the actors, Mr Grebeníčk, thank you, Minister of Culture, and I am ending this interview with the fact that it is over. We now have the last interview, Mr Ivan Bartoš, on the report in the EU financial correction of funds in the Czech Republic, on the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. The discussion of this response has been suspended until the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance are present. [[He's not in the room.]] I'll let her know right away that this interpellation has begun. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u62	Thank you for your word. Madam Secretary is not present. Madam Secretary left after... And the secretary is here. I mean, since I have about three minutes for this absolutely crucial interpelation and it is a fundamental contradiction, the House press is in the House, we have already had it on two committees. The House's press is to say, it was an assignment that the House, including its members, voted YES, was entrusted to Mrs Marie Benešová. We received a kind of press that talks about the amount of corrections in previous periods and how they were handled. And while here, even yesterday, from the Prime Minister, but also in all the media, it is said that previous corrections to projects covered by European subsidies cost taxpayers more than 30 billion, so in the material supplied by the Minister, in the last sentence and in the reports that answered me on the hundred and six, it is said that the Czech Republic did not lose any money in the budget, it says that all money historically was reallocated to other projects. In another material, it is said for a change that it was able to reallocate 24 billions. and some 7 to 11 billion. I think he's flying somewhere in the air. There is talk of 300 criminal or virtually. court proceedings to return the money. I'll take the last minute. So I wouldn't want to say here whether the Ministry of Finance or the MMR is right, because Mrs Dostálová is also saying something completely different here, or whether Prime Minister Babiš has bad notebooks or is making it up. I would like to propose that this interpelation be interrupted until it is delivered from the position of government, because the government has received this task, simply a final document on which at least the individual actors, whether it be an MMR, whether it be the Ministry of Finance and whether it be the Prime Minister of this government, will unite and give us clear figures, a clear document whether the Czech Republic has used the money from those projects where it has not been recognised how much it has recovered and how much it cost taxpayers. This means how much the Czech Republic had to pay from its own resources for projects that were implemented, but the EU did not pay them off. [[11.00 hours]] So my proposal is interruption. I am not satisfied with the result at the moment, and I think that even given the mood for functioning here, it would be unsuccessful to approve a resolution. That's why I couldn't agree with this question right now. I don't have enough information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u63	Ambassador, I can, of course, vote on your motion to interrupt, but you must specify whether this is to be a different material than the one submitted for the intervention. I'm gonna interrupt now, not according to your proposal, but because the time for the interpellation is over. But I didn't take your time. You guys have been discussing other issues here, so we can't blame anyone else. So I conclude with paragraph 291 that Ivan Bartoš's interpellation with the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová remains adjourned, while I hand over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-001-291.u64	Good morning, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. We will now focus on point 295, i.e. the final version of the European Commission's audit report on conflicts of interest, and then discuss the points of the contract block at second reading. In the afternoon, then, it's point 292, which is oral inhalation. However, before we start focusing on a fixed point, I am of course asking if any of the Members are interested in speaking to the Member with a proposal to amend the approved agenda of the 39th meeting. I don't see any such interest. In that case, I will begin the discussion of item number
