ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u1	316. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 34th session of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 10 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it.' And now we're going to proceed to each interpellation. The first person to interview is the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on the Senate resolution on duplication of controls. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 482. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I just read the Prime Minister's apology from all day. Madame, there is still an obstacle to discussion and hopefully we will be able to discuss this interpelation in a variable week. Another intervention is the interpelation of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga, who responded once again to Věra Kovářová's interpelation on the lack of capacity of kindergartens and primary schools. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented by what House press 558. Initiating debate. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u2	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Dear Minister, I have consulted you on the lack of capacity of kindergartens and primary schools, particularly in the areas surrounding Prague and other large cities, and I have asked you for information on the way in which the grant titles to kindergartens and primary schools will continue, because it is clear that the lack of capacity remains a major problem, both in the field of kindergartens and primary schools. Thank you for answering me in part, individually. I asked you to continue the grant title at the Ministry of Finance, which should end in 2020. I also asked you how much the government will allocate to the next two years of funding in the field of kindergarten and primary schools. And of course, I asked you how much money there would be in individual programmes for the individual years 2020 and 2021. I have only partially received the answers, and I would therefore like you to fill in this information for me. You spoke in your reply that there is a subsidy programme for the development of the educational capacities of kindergarten and primary schools in the Ministry of Education by 2021. You also stated in your reply that it was reinforced by 300 million. Yes, I agree, that was in 2018, when we pushed for an increase in the grant title of CZK 300 million. As you note in your reply that the problems persist, I was surprised and rather sorry, and I think it was a great pity that the increase in the form of the amendment that we tabled for this year did not pass by 300 million, unfortunately. You also stated that there are also grant titles at the Ministry of Regional Development, and at the same time you stated that there is a huge excess of requests, I think it was in the amount of one billion crowns. And you also responded that you are communicating with the Ministry of Regional Development, which I very much welcome if there could be an increase, because the projects for kindergarten schools are ready, are building permits, and as calculated, it is in the order of several billion crowns. So I'm asking if the communication with the Ministry of Regional Development was successful, if there's going to be an increase. [[9.10 hours]] You also stated that there is a degree in the Ministry of Education which I very much praise, and that is the title for selected projects for those huge schools that could not be financed from the subsidies that we talked about here, and that this programme will last until 2023, which, of course, we welcome. But we also have to state, and we were together to see a beautiful school in Psáry, where unfortunately the school is huge, but it serves as a school. This means that there are hundreds of children from other municipalities, and unfortunately the school was opened and the first pupil was rejected. So it is repeated in Rudná, where Rudná increases capacity, but will only take her children. This means that they must reject pupils from the municipalities, from the smaller ones, which they will also have to build new schools such as Drahelčice. And I think there's been a lot of communication there. So a number of municipalities will face again with a great lack of capacity, but also with a great lack of funding. In your reply, you stated that it was an obligation for municipalities to ensure sufficient capacity for kindergarten and primary schools. That is true, the municipalities are trying, but the situation that is around the big cities, but also in other localities is so critical. The migration of young people into these areas is extraordinary and others are moving there, so the problem will continue to persist. I would also like to ask you - you answer that you know about the problem, you know that there are capacity problems despite grant titles, and that you will carry out an analysis. So I was wondering when she'd be ready. Because the problem is already today, it is known and will grow in the future, because territorial plans are one thing, but building houses begins especially at this time when there is a shortage of flats in Prague, so everyone moves to the surroundings of Prague or Brno. So when will the analysis be done, if it's not harmed that the analysis wasn't done before, so that further grant titles could be continued, and if you were communicating with the Ministry of Finance about extending the grant title, which is due to end in 2020. The advantage of this subsidy title is obvious, because funding can be divided into several years, there was stage construction, municipalities could prepare for it and funds - the administration of these applications is relatively fast, unlike when money comes from the European Union. So please answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u3	I thank you and give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u4	Mr President, honourable Members. I replied to your written interview, I think, to a large extent, by my letter of 26. 6. 2019. All my known and available information on subsidy programmes that address the capacity of primary and kindergarten schools implemented by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development, I believe that they have been sent to you clearly. I quote, although I am the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, we have also put together the information that we had available about other departments and programs that are not in our hopes. Of course, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports cooperates with the Ministry of Finance in the long term, and in the framework of this cooperation the subsidy programmes of both ministries are coordinated in such a way as to complement and avoid non-systemic overlaps. The coordination took place for many years, until this year. In 2019 the subsidy programme 133310 The development of teaching capacities of kindergartens and primary schools set up by local authorities ends at MŠMT, and the entire subsidy agenda, including funding, is transferred from the decision of the Czech Government to the Ministry of Regional Development, which should, and I think that it is correct, to coordinate systemically, to manage and to cover the state's entire grant policy towards territorial self-government units. From the point of view of the mayors, it is quite logical for us to get into a situation where it does not seek out which of the three four ministries currently has a subsidy programme, but directs its attention directly to the Ministry of Regional Development, which is intended to do so. Thus, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports no longer has any funds allocated to this programme in the budget for 2020, and if I would like to be nippered to information such as that I have not been, I would say that for 2020 it is necessary to contact the Ministry of Regional Development with a request for information on the subsidy programmes, whether national or European, and with which allocation financial will be published and implemented for 2020 and the following years. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports will continue from 2020 onwards only with the implementation of the subsidy programme 133310 Support of selected projects for the development of basic education capacities established by municipalities. In this programme there are ten large projects in the ring around Prague, it is the already mentioned event in Psáry, which is a really modern school of the 21st century, also because it was created on a green meadow. And why is he standing at this point? Because the council as the founder of the problem was aware in sufficient time and sufficiently advance began to solve the territorial documentation and basically the project and subsequently it was possible to realize it. Many of these municipalities have not yet been prepared for construction. This means, if you ask why the problem was not solved somewhere before, even if there were grant funds, there was no construction readiness at the level of these municipalities. We can talk about whether a hen or an egg, if there should be a building documentation first, or first they should know there's a subsidy program. But it's not some omission. And I'm not even hiding that there's a problem in the territory and that we're dealing with it in some way. In previous sentences, I tried to explain that we are trying to solve it systematically, i.e. the concentration of these resources under the Ministry of Regional Development, where when I just take the current situation, all possible savings were taken and concentrated on making it possible to pay as many projects as possible for kindergartens and primary schools as part of the IROP. It is an increase in the order of hundreds of millions, or billions of crowns, and it is a concrete step supported by finance. If I were to answer your questions, I would like to say that whether it's in the letter or at this point, it's not because I don't want to answer it, but let's just say how it really is. If you ask me the question repeatedly - will a proven grant title be continued at the Ministry of Finance for the construction of primary schools in the vicinity of large cities, which is due to end in 2020? - so I answered with knowledge of what the Treasury is doing, but not as the Minister of Finance. So I have to tell you that the Ministry of Finance does not have clear information as to whether another ministry, the Ministry of Finance, will continue to implement it as the administrator of the programme. This question must be answered by the relevant resort if you want a wider answer than the one I gave you. How much funding are we planning to spend to increase the capacity of kindergarten and primary schools in the next two years? The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports plans to spend 600 million CZK in the framework of the programme 133310 to strengthen the capacity of primary schools in the next two years. How much funding is planned by the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Finance, must be told by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Regional Development. Or, if you wish, the Prime Minister can answer that. But it's better to ask those gesture ministries. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is not a responsible body, but I guess we don't have to convince ourselves here for drawing up the budget of these two remaining chapters. How much funding will go from national sources, how much from European sources? From national sources, as I said, 600 million crowns will go, these are national resources focused on the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, from which the entire programme is financed 133310. Information on the sources of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development will be communicated to you by the competent authorities. What departments will be preparing grant programs for this purpose? Before these things are fully transferred to the Ministry of Regional Development in the future, the programmes will still be running out. That means, my answer is, it is the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. [[9.20 hours]] How much funding does this total and especially after individual ministries in the next two years with a budget after one year? In the programme 133310, the budget for 2020 and 2021 allocates an amount of 460 million per year, i.e. a total of 920 million. Real drawing will be according to the state of preparation and implementation of these events. And as I said before, it's estimated at 600 million crowns. For financial allocation of programmes by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development it is necessary to contact the relevant chapters. About the additional questions you have raised about the analysis. Okay, well, the problem is known for a long time. I said that without cooperation with the founders of those schools, i.e. with the relevant, in the case of primary schools, in the case of municipal councils, you will not move on. The analysis we are doing, of course, makes sense at the moment, as it looks at existing capacities and demographic developments. It's good to know that this analysis, in order to be precise, works with babies born, of course, and you estimate the demographic development. There is no way for the whole republic to contain the thing where construction in the area will increase massively. However, based on current data, we are trying to make the most accurate analysis that will show that there are other areas in addition to the ring around Prague and the area around Brno that need this targeted intervention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u5	Thank you, Minister. I ask who is reporting for the debate that I have just begun. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u6	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I don't understand a little bit. You're the Minister of Education, and you say you're not actually responsible for the capacity. If I understand correctly, it's in the village gesture. But I think there's a need to work with these communities, and there's a need for some help. I think that the Ministry of Education should have a comprehensive overview of what subsidy titles, what funding will be spent on all departments, and at the same time should have accurate information if we want to talk about the analysis of how much capacity is missing in each region. And I think that even the regions are doing these analyses, and they have a pretty good picture of it. If all the agenda goes to the Ministry of Regional Development - and you say you can't speak for the Ministry of Finance or for the Ministry of Regional Development - I think it's a little typical. We have a problem here called the lack of basic and kindergarten capacity. You are the Minister of Education, grant titles will be transferred to the Ministry of Regional Development. And I think that all the ministries you talked about, that is, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Education, should coordinate and inform each other about these things. I don't want to compare it to what might be going on in the eGovernment area. The two ministries don't communicate with each other, and it's a big problem. So I just want to get one more thing straight. In that reply, you said that the grant title 310, the final number, for the development of the teaching capacity of kindergarten and primary schools, should be by 2021. You put a total of 1.8 billion there. Does that mean nothing's been announced this year? That was from last year. It won't be the next and the next years, either, if I understand it. So I'm very sorry that this grant title, which worked perfectly, is going back to the Ministry of Regional Development. Just a comment, and I have to agree with you on the unpreparedness of municipalities that didn't have projects prepared for large schools. It has its reasons, and these are the following. If the council decides to prepare documentation for a large school, it is worth tens of millions, and those municipalities will decide when the grant titles will be published. And if you fail to get those grant titles ready in time, then it's actually postponed the start of the preparation. That's a statement of fact. And that's why I'm going to ask if it will be possible to extend the grant title to selected projects in any way, because there are municipalities that have built a new school, but it is clear that they will need a new school. I note that there will be construction as it is, the council decided in the 1990s, and this unfortunately has consequences today. So just for the communities that have this problem and have turned to me, I name Chýn and I think that in the future Hostivice and Rudná will probably also solve this problem. Whether it wouldn't be possible to extend the grant title to those selected schools, not just those three municipalities, but others. Because they exist and will not be able to pay the investment in the order of 150 to 350 million crowns. So these are my follow-up questions so far, and I look forward to an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u7	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Excuse me, Madam. I ask who else is interested in speaking in the debate. It seems the Minister would like to respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond to the opening of the other part of you. Interpretation that the Ministry, which is in charge of education policy of the Czech Republic, does not care, of course, is not true. And precisely because I am to a substantial extent in detail with knowledge, but not the full detail of those grant programs, he replied to you, showing that I know that there are programs at other ministries. The fact that I am having fun and I am able to tell you that there is no overlap with the Ministry of Finance makes it very easy to conclude that communication between the ministries concerned takes place. The fragmentation isn't ideal from the mayor's point of view, and I'd like the mayor's view to have one place and one program in which I can navigate, or I'll see if the challenge is announced, and I can prepare the activities. Of course, there will always be - I guess I'm not the idealist in that sometimes this is how it would work, because there will always be some exceptions or special things where it makes sense for the other office to deal with it. In this case, it's the union schools in the ring. So I don't suppose if we're doing an analysis that shows that there's a problem in other places, or there's a problem in the ring that goes on, I don't suppose we're going to solve the problem any further. This means that you are asking for a continuation in whatever form, so I assume another state ingerence and support for the state precisely for the new capacity of parent schools, or rather at the moment due to demographic development of primary schools. But of course it depends on the specific ORP and what the situation is. You mentioned one thing, and I'm gonna stop by her place, even if I can cross over. If it really is - and I agree that if it's a big investment, so that someone would invest large millions in a small village in preparing project documentation, if they don't know it's a subsidy program, then that comment was appropriate. That means yes, he needs to know that it's worth investing in the project preparation, or that he has a very good chance of getting the funds. We agree on that. And yes, in the past it could have been understood in some municipalities and blocked by the decision of the council to prepare a project at all. No, I don't think so. But if you're asking me, if the Ministry disclaims responsibility - well, it doesn't. But I have to say with full vigor that whoever's responsible for the building and who's the founder, the owner of the building, is the village if we're talking about kindergarten or primary school. And when you look into the past for a long time, when the establishing powers were transferred, the funds that have been transferred to the budgetary determination of taxes have also passed over. And that investment program that was historical at the Ministry of Education - if I have the right information, and I believe I have - has turned into that RUD. I believe that it is not possible to separate the establishmental competence, it is not possible to separate the community's responsibility for the development of the territory and for the school as a whole. What is an indisputable part of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is, of course, to have someone to teach there to be adequately evaluated. And, as you can see, support for the combined financial instruments, or the combined investments of the state and local government, is being made by such nice buildings as a brand new school in Psáry, where the Ministry of Education sent 238 million crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u9	Thank you, Minister. I ask who is interested in speaking in the debate. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u10	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I didn't want to say that the Ministry of Education wouldn't care, I think the communication with the mayor is ongoing. Just a comment as regards municipalities as founders and owners of buildings. You are right, mayors or municipalities are founders, they also build the capacity of kindergartens and primary schools, but on the other hand, I have to say that it is quite difficult to determine the future demographic curve, because it is in the vicinity of large cities not only that a lot of young people moved in and had children with them or those children were born with them, but there is also a completely untypical migration of existing ones. In the whole republic, I think it's, maybe I have older information, about 11 percent. Whereas it is in those districts around Prague that migration is much higher and people of different ages do not move there, but there are young, completely untypically, everywhere else it doesn't happen. This means that the number of children is actually increasing unexpectedly again and probably will continue to increase even those who are not yet born, so it can be very badly done, as you said, to calculate. When it comes to the budgetary determination of taxes, let me just remind you. The municipalities were de facto discriminated against once as regards the budgetary determination of taxes and did not have much money for investment. That's changed, it's improved. They have much more money for investment, but it is in those municipalities and cities where it is necessary to build a new primary or kindergarten, there is also a need to invest in other civic amenities, so those communities are really under enormous stress and, above all, representatives and mayors, because, of course, parents and citizens turn to them in particular. You mentioned that there has been a change in the budget allocation and that there is a fee per pupil, but this concerns only non-investment costs. So this is something that, of course, helps the community significantly, but investment costs are a little different. So I'm just asking that the problem be dealt with quickly, so that the grant titles that have basically proven themselves are the national grant titles, because we have a critical situation in terms of the capacity of kindergarten and primary schools, so that they can be written out, so that there is a relatively sufficient amount of funding, so that the municipalities know that the funds will be available, and they can prepare for documentation. I mean, these huge schools, about kindergartens, where the project documentation is ready, building permits are in the order of three billion crowns across the country. I'm just saying that RUD did, but it's non-investment costs. The major problem is the municipalities that are smaller but are also small towns, which means that I can say the example of Mukařov, who also built a new school, and today there are more children from the neighborhood than their own, and there is a need for expansion of other classes. The sports hall is missing there and unfortunately the council is already negative for further expansion, because basically the founder, i.e. the municipality, is building capacity for the other municipalities. Somewhere these municipalities manage to agree, somewhere they don't, and unfortunately, when there is a change in the leadership of the village where the children arrive, then there are big misunderstandings and problems, and I think that can happen even after, as you have talked about the union schools, there can also be some misunderstanding. However, I welcome and note that the village of Železné has built its first union kindergarten, so we will see how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u11	Thank you. Anyone interested in the show? Mr. Secretary reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u12	Thank you for the floor, I'd just like to clarify. Of course, I didn't mean the calculation that's been in the RUD lately, but at the very beginning of this millennium, investments were concentrated in the Ministry of Education and were taken into account in the original calculation. But there it didn't take into account whether the municipality has a school or doesn't have a school, which means that this investment instrument has vanished into the general budget of taxes. Of course, the instrument that's been going on for the last few years is heading towards investment spending. I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u13	All right, Madame, here we go. He wants to ask you something, I guess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u14	I don't want to ask any more questions. I thank you for all your answers, Minister. I will no longer contradict the answer, because I think there have been clear instructions for the Member to inquire at the Ministry of Regional Development and at the Ministry of Finance, and on my part only a request whether the three ministries could really communicate with each other, so that there is sufficient funding for the new capacities of kindergarten and primary schools. So thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u15	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in adopting a resolution. Definitely not. Okay. So that concludes the discussion of this interpellation. I have a few additional apologies: Mr Lipavský apologizes for the whole day for work, Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský apologises from 9 to 11 o'clock, Mrs Pekarová Adamová apologises between 9 and 11 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Jan Čižinský apologises until 11 o'clock for work reasons. Next is the interpelation of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, who responded to the interpelation of Mr Vojtěch Filip on the construction of a unified information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the state of gradual replacement of OKsystem's systems. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 571. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I know that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová is excused, but I am going to use this time before I ask for the interruption of the interpelation to ask those questions so that the Minister can answer them when it comes next time. I'll briefly state what's going on in the 571 press. The point is that in the information systems, a contract is also awarded for former Minister Marxová, who is to unite the information system for both the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and for all managed bodies, organizations, especially labour offices and so on. There the current system consumes CZK 700 to 800 million, the information system, it is a very expensive matter, and therefore a tender was issued, but the result of the new system did not appear even in 2017, or in 2018 and according to my information it is also threatened to secure the new information system on 1. 1. 2020. [[9.40 hours]] Again, in those two years, the loss on the new dysfunctional system is CZK 1.4 billion. We've been arguing for two days here about how we're gonna get money for other social programs to provide social services in the regions. There was a search for funds from other resorts, and in the resort itself, money is spent on the IT system in a way that is inadequate. I can't say that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs would answer me badly. But she described the state that's in the Ministry very positively. She actually wrote all my stuff. So he's informed of the condition. But once again, it is important for me, and I think that for all of us too, to answer the questions that I am about to now, so that the task that is from the government for her has been accomplished, and to 1. 1. 2020 we had information systems throughout the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs department so that we would not spend more than 700 million crowns a year on the old system that he had served. So much for the introduction of my interpellation. And let me ask you another question, which I have for Secretary Jana Maláčová. What guarantees does the Ministry have that the same situation will not occur as in 2017 and 2018 when the last-minute launch of the systems was postponed? What are the current risks, and what measures is the Ministry taking or planning to eliminate them? There is an approved version of the technical description of the assignment for deployment of the information system, so-called Blueprint, defining the exact range of the system and its function? Is the protocol ready to start the system and transfer agendas and function to the new system? If so, is it in line with the project schedule and is all its actions carried out within the deadline? There is an analysis of the impact of possible failure to deploy the economic system of the Labour Office to 1. 1. 2020 and can this analysis be provided? Two. Another series of questions concerns whether the statement in the original reply whether the solution to the non-compliance of the information systems of non-insurable benefits from 2011 to 2014 is that there is not merely incoherence in the system data of the data analysis provider that drew attention to their existence in 2018, or if your statement merely states that, on the basis of the sample examined, the Ministry considers that there has been no error in the payment of benefits, but that there is a lack of data between the economic and agenda system, which means that OKsystem doubted in the implementation of the data consistency verification project in 2014? And the question: How does this fact affect the possibility of proper and timely data migration for the needs of the employment information system? What impact does this situation have on current projects and threatens the deadline for the launch of the employment information system? Another question: What steps will the Ministry take towards a supplier who has committed a mistake when, on the basis of an investigation carried out, it becomes clear which of the opposing claims of suppliers is wrong? And the third series of questions: what is the state of the solution to the information support for the agenda system of non-insurable benefits? On top of that, the Ministry has secured the delivery of a new IS data system in the guarantee of delivery to 1. 1. 2021? That's what it's supposed to be. A (b) - If not, how will the Ministry ensure an extension of the operation of the existing system? We ask for a detailed timetable from which it will be clear that it is realistic to assume that there will be no threat to the continuity of the operation of the system for the payment of non-insurable benefits. So much for interpelling additional questions so that Minister Jana Maláčová can answer them later. After this statement, given that the Minister is not here and cannot respond, I propose that the item be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u17	Thank you. I have noted the procedural proposal. With priority right, Mrs Jana Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, not only is the Minister referred to by Vice-President Filip, but there is no minister. So, Mr President, I don't think we can continue our fruitful behavior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u19	Yes. I'm aware that there's only a backpack left for the minister who's been sitting here, and a bag. [[Plag]] [[After Minister Dostál]] So I'm gonna cut the meeting for ten minutes. Five o'clock. We'll try to secure a member of the government. So it's a 9:50 break. [[Minister Plaga is entering the hall.]] Or if it's possible... I've called off what I called off. So I'm going to call my colleagues from the lobby because we're going to vote to interrupt this point. [[Members are running into the hall.]] Let's give our colleagues some more... For those who have just arrived in the hall, we will vote on the interruption of this interpelation to the presence of the Minister. I think we're qualified to vote. Initiating vote. I said, who's up for interrupting this point? Who's against it? Voting order number 53, registered 101, for 70, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that we've interrupted this interpellation. Next, we will be discussing an interview with the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga, who responded to Mr Jakub Janda's interpellation with regard to government support for sports activities. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 577. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, thank you for replying to my intervention on government support for sports activities. At the same time, I must point out that I appreciate the way your ministry has handled this interview and thank you for your attention. Your answers, although their content was exhaustive and very well formulated, did not reflect the very object I asked you about. I therefore regret to say that I consider them insufficient, and that was the reason for putting them on the House's agenda. I must say that I consider them too vague, because they do not sufficiently clarify the sport policy of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, which you are leading. In my interview, I asked you what steps the Ministry of Education has taken under your direction to promote sport, mobility in the school system and generally better physical fitness of the population, and secondly, what priorities the Ministry of Education has in promoting sport and making it more transparent for the rest of this House and this government's term of office. What do you consider from the 2018 and 2019 Action Plan to be realistic by the end of this year? We are sure to agree, as you say in your reply, that the development and promotion of sport, whether organized or unorganized, is an important area and affects the lives of a large part of the population of our Republic. It is also in their interest to know how the government, in turn your ministry, approaches the whole issue. After all, I agree with you in other passages of the answer. I quote: "Sport can also be a full public service." I also agree with other passages that the weakness of sport is its lack of institutional representation, that lack of movement activities will become an increasing problem at the same time as population ageing, and last but not least that the sport area suffers from a lack of finance and poorly-set budgets. However, I lack a clearer answer to the question of what to do with it, virtually. At least your ministry has done so far. [[9.50 hours]] I would hate for you to think of this as a harsh opposition criticism, but as an open debate. You are certainly presenting some specific cases, and you are even talking about a few real results. For example, you speak. on the full implementation of more than half of the measures set out in the Action Plan on the SPORT 2025 concept and, to be literal, on the fact that this has resulted in the implementation of the State's sport and physical policy. You are also referring to the fact that the SPORT 2025 concept itself is being implemented through an action plan and measures for achieving strategic objectives. I certainly don't want to touch you, but rather than as a specific answer, it seems to me a very general to official answer, or rather don't answer. However, in order not to be just critical of you, if there is a really specific point, you mention, for example. support Sports league of primary schools by the Cup of the Ministry of Education. Thank you for this step and I very much welcome it. You also mention the support of the My Club program and Sport in school or the call of motion and health, although we both know that the My Club programme has its flies and to this day only about a third of the subsidies for this year have been paid. I am sure we can then agree that, as examples, these things are in order and the shift has certainly happened, but I am still missing more and more comprehensive information about concrete steps to promote sports and sports activities. After all, we cannot narrow this debate down just to cross-checked items in various budgets and action plans. Unfortunately, this is how the answer affects me. We can certainly have fun with the fact that you have set limits on these strategic documents, and the Ministry is fulfilling its commitments and whatever is beyond that. However, we will put the debate back to the beginning, how ambitious the strategic documents you are trying to fill are, and it must be stated that you are filling them with this optics, and criticism is probably not appropriate. The question is whether sport from this level is about purely administrative management, actually bureaucratic management, when we follow various indicators and project management, but it's all just results on paper. Similarly, it is with funding. You are talking about an increased allocation of funds under the approved budget for children and youth, the Talent programme or the mentioned My Club. It's okay here too, I appreciate your work. However, once again, I lack a more coherent outlook for financing sport, a much more conceptual government policy in this area. You praise that there has been a significant increase in funding for sport, which is supported by adding roughly another 1.5 billion from other resorts to the 7 billion allocated to sport in the relevant chapter of the Ministry of Sports. Once again, the optics of accounting are correct, but let us ask ourselves - is that sufficient in the global perspective? I would also like to know the answer to the question - do you think that's enough? And if not, as you suggest, and I fully support you, what are you going to do about it? To sum up - and again, I will be allowed to quote from your answers: we do not need to ensure realization, but we really need to support sport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u21	I thank you and the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u22	Mr President, honourable Members, I could, of course, in response to this interpelation, but I do not want to turn to the fact that we are actually implementing the action plan and what is being implemented or not. However, believe me that I was in a different role at the Ministry on May 3, 2017, when police intervention took place there, and I quite saw the state in which the financing of sport was at that time, and this on the side so much called transparency. I think so - and now I frame my contribution because, of course, the Chamber of Deputies approved the creation of a National Sports Agency, i.e. I am not the one who should be saying what sports policy should look like in the next period - virtually. I'm still in the transition period, so I'm not giving it up. But it's not that the Ministry of Education should be here, or I, as the Minister of Education, should be here saying where the sports environment should be and what state sports policy should be in 2020-2025. But I'm gonna use this space to tell you what we've done over the past two years, and I don't think it's enough. And I may be a little wider in my answer, but I won't use the cliché of the action plan and other things. I framed it on May 3, 2017. Since 2018, all applications for subsidies have been conducted in electronic information systems with unique access data and the process is conducted in accordance with administrative procedure. It's something that brings the process together, and you mentioned my club, and from that situation, where about 5 percent of the clubs have formal failures, which seem petty from the outside, but it's an unsolvable problem for the administration, so I see these sports kids, and the situation doesn't make me happy. Anyway, even during that period, as a ministry, we have repeatedly tried to change the principles of government for financing non-profit organizations so that this condition is not so strict, this condition, which is currently killing around 300 to 350 clubs. But I took a turn. It is precisely because we have massively increased - and this is a concrete step - support in the My Club program, where there are 300-350 clubs with this problem at the moment, but another 5 700 or 5 600 clubs receive this support... And when you turn to me as Members of Parliament with the fact that if there is the error I was talking about and there is a threat to the club of extinction, I will admit that at this moment I am appalled because the subsidy programme My club was not a subsidy programme to make it the only source of income, but it should have been the support of the fact that at that local level the funding of youth sports is failing. I am very pleased that today we have 800,000 children who receive support through this instrument. But what frightens me -- it seems that some municipalities, by coming from the Ministry of My Club program and coming from the National Sports Agency in the future, have shut down the source of income to sport children in that community. That's how it's been for me for the last two weeks, when everyone's been turning to me, that means the end of the clubs, which, of course, doesn't please me at all, but I'm wondering where the community money went. But from a central point of view, my answer is. Today, we have the highest number of registered children in those clubs, and they are receiving support from the My Club programme, the amount of which exceeds a billion crowns, quite significantly. We started at 300 million. There's one more thing in particular. Sports at school runs at thousands of schools. It's 2,200 expertly taught lessons a week so we can imagine. That means, that's the thing that we've been running today, and we're supporting it at thousands of schools today. I'd like it to spread further. So as far as the base you asked about is concerned, as the school committee agreed then and as is consistent with the strategy - and this is the last time I may mention it - so we are trying to pump support and resources for basic sports, whether it is in school or through TJ, SK, i.e. those clubs, and it's direct support for clubs, which in many sports, I'm going to say it hard, bypassing a dysfunctional system of distribution of funds from those unions as such. The next step, which points to the systemic grip on the issue, is related to the Talent program, which focuses on children and young athletes from 6 to 23 years of age. We have significantly increased the amount of funds in the Talent program, with the fact that we have no longer increased the amount of funds that goes directly to the Union's own organisation to the fact that the Union exists, organizes competitions and does other things. I think the targeted support is good. A concrete step of the Ministry. [[10.00 hours]] At the same time, I add this, and consider it as the bare fact that we wanted those unions, which are the carriers of how to sport, where I take talent, how talent to know and how to work with talent, and how to increase the resources for coaches, which are also required here, we accompanied by the fact that we wanted to see what kind of talent and youth work the association has. That means they didn't get it historically, as you said, on the basis of some administrative decision and the number of medals, but also on the basis of what they intend to do with it and what they want to do with it and how they have a system of youth work set up, and we gave them enough extra resources. You'd be surprised how some unions don't have an elaborate youth system at all, how they don't think about it. And that, and I think we can agree on who is to determine who is the talent for that particular sport, is not an official of the Ministry of Education or the National Sports Agency, but of course the union. He knows the specifics of his sport and should be educated in it. The State supports these activities precisely by giving resources to coaches to be able to be methodically educated. And that's what we've done in the last two years. As far as investment support is concerned, because it's not just about the human resources that are important - if you build stadiums and aren't coaches, it's also a wasted investment. It's like science when you have labs and you don't have scientists. So, like I just said, we've increased coach support. Coaches can be paid from the My Club program, where it is over a billion, and coaches can be paid and paid also under the Talent program, which we have massively increased. What we didn't raise, and I think it's okay and it's up to us to discuss what it should look like in the next few years is the organization itself, that is, the means that go directly to the unions and that we only suspect from the perspective of the state, virtually. are billed, but I do not feel that there is certainty that their effect on the sport of youth and the sport of children and performance sport is somehow effective. These are concrete steps that when I talk about the start-up of investments and 150 events that are supported for physical unity and sports clubs, reconstruction of halls, playgrounds and shipyards, etc., they are means that support sporting activity in the Czech Republic. If you ask me, even though this agenda from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports goes to the National Sports Agency, if I think that the amount of funding for sport is sufficient, that was your question, we agree that it is not. But at the same time, as you may have noticed, when I was talking about kindergartens before, there's an inseparable role not only for the state, and the state is not responsible for everything, but there has to be responsibility in hand with it from the unions, now I won't talk about associations. And, of course, I wish we could simplify my club's forward-looking program. Thanks to the fact that the register of athletes is now being filled, so that we can get into a situation where this payment will be claimed, and therefore it will not be necessary from the point of view of the individual clubs to undergo as complex a Martyrium as it is today, administratively complex and threatening errors and the loss of the subsidy. This means that these are things that, even in accordance with the budgetary rules, should come into practice by 2021 at the latest, and I firmly believe that the massive promotion of sports of the lowest articles will continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u23	Good morning, honourable Members. Thank you, Minister Plag, for his performance. Mr Jakub Janda, with an additional question, goes on to the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer. I agree with you that you cannot have a recipe for all solutions to problems and that without the regions, municipalities and their help we will not really move. But it is the Ministry of Education, which should now, now that the agency has been established, set up a system of financing and in terms of what the community will pay, what the region will pay and what the cost will be. It didn't happen here. And I still agree with you that the unions really should reach into their conscience, but there should also be a rethink of funding, or the salaries of coaches who really - today a lot of coaches do it volunteer, you can say for sausage and beer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u25	Thank you. If... Minister Plaga wants to complete his answer, please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u26	I'm just refilling - we agree on that. Of course, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports cannot out of its competence determine what it should and should not do. But I agree with you that I am not thrilled that, after redirecting lottery money to municipal budgets, not all communities have included sport in those activities that support this money. That's the blackout I was talking about, and I see it as a big problem. But, of course, I don't want to pause. There are a number of municipalities and cities that have sport as a priority, they support sport even beyond what lands in the budget, but in order for it to work across the country, it should be a standard. We agree on that. But the D.O.D.'s tool - not that it doesn't want to do it, but it just doesn't have it in its hands and it doesn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u27	Thank you. I'm asking my colleague Janda... He did not propose a resolution. Now, please, we have one more application for this interpellation. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u28	Thank you for the floor. Minister, in your speech, you mentioned my club, and that even in the current challenge, over 300 clubs were excluded from this challenge on the basis of formal misconduct. So my question is simple: How does the Ministry feel about these clubs? Why didn't it allow this formal error to be corrected, to add the information, why did it immediately disable them from my club's program?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u29	Thank you, colleague Bartoň. Will the Minister respond? Yes. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u30	As far as I'm concerned, this number is up to date at the moment, which may be going to solve a number of other interventions that are going to be directed at me. A total of 5 951 applications were gathered in the My Club programme in 2019 and 388 clubs did not settle the subsidy of the previous year and 51 of them did not apply for a grant for 2019. This means that the clubs concerned, which have this type of error, are 337 at the moment, and it is 5.6 percent of the applicants. And the condition of that settlement is not a condition that the Ministry has set its will. It is based on government principles on the financing of non-profit organisations and is a condition of settlement with the state budget. And it is not a formal error that there is a table missing that can be delivered at any time during that financial year, because it has a binding settlement date with the state budget. Like I said, I'm not happy about the situation. In the last two years, the Ministry has repeatedly asked the Council of the Government for nonprofit organizations to amend these principles so that it is not as harsh a condition as it is, and we did not have to have such strictly written into the subsidy program. That means one thing that can change, so, of course, those are the principles. The second thing I was talking about is... at this point, of course, it doesn't solve the situation of 337 clubs, but for next year we're trying to make it an administrative burden, respectively. writing into the missing A4 took place automatically, which means that when they complete the one thing that everyone completes, so that it is immediately written into this one paper and it does not happen that they simply do not notice that this condition - which they are pointed out to, I consider it necessary to say. It's not that they didn't know about it, but of course I understand that 6,000 clubs in the Republic, where someone is filling out the application, will make that mistake, as it turned out in 5.6 percent of the cases, and that it threatens the sport of children, virtually. financial support for children's sports. This means, for the next year, when it is still running at the Ministry of Education, what I can directly influence is that it is written immediately, and that when it fills one table, this thing is also generated, and that this omission falls away, this error rate, or at least this error rate will decrease. But what I said here is a solution for the future, and I think it can be used already in 2021 in connection with the established register of athletes and their purification and its full functionality and regulation of budgetary rules since January 2021, I think, as planned, it should be possible to actually send the de facto flat-rate payment or payment per head, and only on the basis that they are kept in that register. This is what I see as not the music of the future, but as a real solution that removes administrative complexity, and it will simply be a payment on the head of a registered athlete. Of course, I would point out, even though I would no longer have it in my mind, that it is necessary from the point of view of those clubs to assume that they should not cheat in this reporting and that, of course, if someone is caught cheating, then they should subsequently bear the consequences and should not receive a subsidy in this simplified way in the years to come.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u31	Thank you, Minister Plag, for his answer. If there is no application for a debate on this interpelation and there is no motion for another resolution, I am done. We will continue with further intervention, also on the Minister of Education for Youth and Sports Robert Plaga, also from Jakub Janda, on the state of preparation of the law on sport. Interpelation, together with the reply, presents 578 as the House's press. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen. Minister, I know you only have until 10:30, so I'm gonna try to speed this up. Thank you for responding to my interpelation on the state of preparation of the Sports Act. Unfortunately, I have to say that I am materially unhappy with your answer and I consider it insufficient. In doing so, we can certainly agree that the development and promotion of sport, whether organized or unorganized, is an important area and affects the lives of the majority of the people of our Republic. It is also in their interest to know how the government and, in turn, your ministry approach the whole issue, and the law on sport is the basis of such a debate. As regards the preparation of the status of the new Act on Sport, I will remind you that the preparation of the new Act is part of the government's programming declaration, which you are a member of, and has been appearing in similar documents since 2013. So, in my interview, I logically asked what stage the law is at. It should be noted that correspondence with your Ministry and also the request for information concerning the state of the processing of legislative proposals and the preparation of other documents relating to the preparation of the Act on Sport were preceded by a written interview. The material sent, which according to your communication was processed by the employees of the Ministry of Education in 2016, names the basic problems that the law should solve, and I objectively add that the material, although not in the form of at least factual intentions, is quite conveniently naming the basic problems, whether it is setting up a functioning sports environment or building it on three basic pillars, i.e. the institutional anchoring of the sports sectors to prepare sports representation and, last but not least, to promote the mobility of children and youth. Although, in my opinion, I would add the fourth pillar, namely sport as leisure activity. But in many ways, this material is unbalanced. On the one hand, there is a clear ambition to take the sport issue as wide as possible and it can only be seen by a number of general statements, and at other times it goes into too many details. For example, we can read in the material: "The law on sport should define the basic principles on which it is based. The principles should be the basic constraints to be reflected in the subsequent provisions of the law.' That, with a certain exaggeration, sounds like the definition of a circle. On the other hand, the material discusses in detail how to determine the fitness of an athlete or the number of hours of physical education in schools, which does not need to be addressed in such detail in such a standard and is not an objective either. The key is the plane of things. The Ministry of Education rightly names a number of problems related to the sports environment, but does not offer a more specific solution, which, in my opinion, should be the ambition of the new law. For example, the material mentions the need to concentrate on combating negative phenomena in sport without naming them. For medical examinations, there is talk of setting motivational elements to ensure sufficient medical professionals, but it is no longer indicated what nature these motivational elements should be. The material also speaks of the fact that the new law should define the tasks relating to the promotion of sport by individual public authorities, and it subsequently lists these authorities. But nothing says anything about a more specific form of these tasks. The question mark can then be put above the ways in which, for example, the involvement of teachers in physical education in the role of trainers or the systematic strengthening of higher education sports is to be achieved by supporting the formation of clubs on higher education grounds. But to get back to the material. For some basic way to go, I think that's a good stepping stone, even though there's still a lot of work to do. Unfortunately, I did not learn from your answer at the stage of the preparation of the new law itself. I understand that the competence of sport will be addressed through the newly emerging National Sport Agency, and I firmly believe that it will take hold of it with great vigor, because it is a prerequisite for the good functioning of the sport to be secured by the Agency. I would therefore sum up your answer to two points. It contains information about the adoption of the amendment, which established the National Sports Agency and transferred the sports agenda under it from MŠMT. Secondly, it contains a statement that this agency will deal with further preparations of the Sport Act in the future, with the fact that the agenda in question has been referred to it in an elaborate form. So I will ask you one more time: how far has the Ministry of Education progressed in preparations for the law? And what time horizon has it or has it set for its completion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u33	I thank Mr Jakub Jand. Before I give the Minister the floor to answer, I say that Lucie Šafránková has already cancelled her apology for further negotiations. He's got a replacement card number 15. My colleague Kaňkovský also cancels his apology from 10.05 a.m. and is already present, but another apology was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies - Mr Petr Pávek between 9 and 11 p.m. Now, then, Mr. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga in response. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u34	Mr President, honourable Members, I understand the question. I understand the question. What has been discussed, or what Mr Janda has presented here, is not even a substantive intention of the law. These are - I would call it perhaps some ideas of the Sports Act. And when I return to the past, indeed, in 2016, under the office of Minister Valachová, the Department of Legislation was entrusted with preparing a new law on sport, with the fact that material inputs, I would expect that the section of sport should be included in it and it should be discussed with Section 2, which is the section of education, because there is the issue of school sport and its links to education in Czech schools. As I mentioned here on May 3, 2017, the work - but then you asked how it was interrupted or not continued after the case of 2017. And when I joined 13. 12. 2017, so you know that in a very short time he was appointed Government Agent Milan Hnilička, current boss, or President of the National Sports Agency, and the work on the preparation of the Sports Support Act was soon redirected to the preparation of an amendment to the Act, which - you know that, for you have spoken twice about it here and there were two, at least two very full debates here in plenary and repeated debates on committees - was a parliamentary amendment. This means, if you ask me, if the Ministry was working on a robust law on promoting sport, a brand-new legal standard, it was precisely because we went in a completely different direction that didn't work. The answer is very simple. As far as the thesis is concerned, I personally believe that when this new legislation should be created, and the material, as you have described it as an entry, is a good entry and did not even have the character to go into detail, because first it is necessary to tell each other which areas can be affected, because otherwise you only copy the existing law or amend it. In case it should be some new concept, it is appropriate to say whether it will address the financing of sport, whether it will address the second career of athletes, or whether these are things that are not to be codified, which runs in some other way or goes on to refer to some kind of legal regulation. I would expect that the issue of sport - not only in this House, but also in this House, which showed the cross-cutting vote on the support of the National Agency for Sport - is such a subject where the consensus on what the new law should be - even though we can speak again as the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports only from the context of school, university sport, the activities that we have left behind, and we are not the gestor and we are not the gesture of the new law, so I think it should be preceded by a broad political, but also expert debate on which topics are meant to be in that law. So if you're asking me secretly what the next development should be, I think this one. That means, on the ground of the sports subcommittee, talk about how hugging the law should be. But as I'm saying, I can't speak here for a colleague of mine, Hnilička, who is already in charge of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u35	I thank the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plag for his reply. Mr Janda is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u36	I just want to thank the Minister for replying directly. He wasn't clenching at all, so thank you. I will not adopt any resolutions on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u37	Thank you. Since there is no other motion for a resolution, we can end this intervention. We continue to interpel Mrs Věra Kovářová to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. But my colleague Kovářová isn't here, so her interpellation is failing. Another interview with the Prime Minister is from Dana Balcarová. I don't see her either, and her interpellation is failing. The next interview is for Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová from Zbyněk Stanjura. He's duly excused. His interpellation is failing, too. And we have here an interview by my colleague Radek Holomčík on the Environment Minister Richard Brabec. I see the MP. The Minister of the Environment is duly excused. What do you suggest, Mr. Ambassador? [[Member Holomčík off the microphone: I would like to propose an interruption to the Minister's presence.]] To the present, okay. That is, in the case of Mr Radek Holomčík's interpellation to the Minister for the Environment to the press 587, the motion for a resolution is to interrupt into the presence of the Minister for the Environment. I'll check you out just in case. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We are voting on Mr Radek Holomčík's procedural proposal - a proposal to interrupt negotiations on this response to the intervention to the presence of the Minister for the Environment. But I still have a small number of entries. I'll hold. I will sing because I believe that we will achieve the necessary participation of 67 Members. [[Members are gradually coming into the hall.]] I understand that some colleagues have not yet been logged in... I think there'll be enough of us. In voting order number 54, we will vote on Mr Radek Holomčík's proposal to interrupt his interpellation under press 587 to the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec in the presence of the Minister of the Environment. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 54 of 83 present for 50, against 21. The motion was accepted. This interpelation will be discussed in the presence of the Minister of the Environment. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] Mrs Olga Richterová's last rejection of the interview is that of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. The honourable Member is reporting for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor. Calm down in the House, please let the colleague Richterová, tell her proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u38	I also propose that we vote on the suspension of this written interview concerning the catastrophic situation in the medical assessment service, in the presence of the Minister, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u39	The procedural proposal will be decided in the vote number 55, which I have launched. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 55 of 89 for 73, against no one. The motion was accepted. We have therefore interrupted the intervention to the House press of 588 Mrs Richterová to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová at the next meeting. Thus, today's responses to written interpelations have been exhausted. And since the next meeting is fixed at 11 o'clock, I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting within 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-001-316.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, hello. We would now like to focus on points 201 - protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty, 184 - protocol on international civil aviation and 185 - agreement on air transport services. Then we would discuss, if there was time, the points of the block contract in second and first reading. I would also remind you that at 12 o'clock we have a fixed item number 314 - information from the Minister of Health on the health situation. In the afternoon, we will then address paragraph 317, which is oral inhalation. Before we proceed to the fixed points, I ask if anyone is interested in proposing an amendment to the programme of the 34th meeting. I don't see anyone, so we're not changing the program. Let me introduce you to my apologies. Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes for today's meeting from 9 to 12 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Jan Bauer from 11 to 12 o'clock apologises for today's meeting, Mr Jakub Michálek from 12 to 12 o'clock for work reasons and Mrs Ivana Nevludová from 9 to 13 o'clock for personal reasons, from 14.30 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. I am now opening the discussion of the fixed point, which is:
