ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u1	38. Members of Barbora Kořanová's proposal, Martin Kupka, Ivan Bartoš, Pavel Jelínek, Pavel Kováčik, Jan Chvojka, Jan Bartošek, Helena Langšádlová, Věra Kovářová and others on the issue of the law on the right to digital services and on the amendment of certain laws /house print 447/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 447/1. I will ask Mrs Barbora Kořanová to take her place at the rapporteur's table and Mr Jan Kubík, who is the rapporteur for the first reading. Is your colleague Kubík here? Yes, it is. And now, Madame, I will ask you to present the proposal as a representative of the appellants. Before I give you my word, I will ask the House for peace so that the petitioner can understand. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to be one of the proponents of this bill on the right of a citizen to digital services. For me personally and I believe that not only for me, it is a revolutionary law, because it will basically enable us and other citizens to communicate electronically with the public administration and basically the citizen will have the right under certain conditions to seek judicial action to enable the Office to communicate this electronic communication. Basically, the problem is that the citizen will be able to deal electronically with his or her life situations online, again under certain conditions. I am very glad that this law came on the agenda of today's meeting this early. Basically, this law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u3	I will interrupt you, Madame, and ask the House for peace! If you are having other debates, and I believe that there are enough of them, given how we have changed the agenda of the meeting, please lead them in the foyer and allow the appellant to justify this proposal in peace. [[The Member already wants to speak, but the President is interrupting it.]] Just a moment, madam. I really don't see enough peace in the House yet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u4	Thank you very much. I know that this law is not entirely popular, not many people care, but I am still very happy to discuss it today, so thank you, Mr President. Basically, this law is part of our government's programming statement. It is also part of the concept of Digital Czech Government Commissioner for IT and digitalization of Vladimír Dzurilla. I am very happy that, after almost a year of discussion and preparation of this law, politicians, MEPs across the political spectrum were involved. Almost 140 Members signed the proposal. Thank you so much for your cooperation not only to all parties, but also to the ICT Union, the Chamber of Commerce, to the already mentioned government agent. I must say that I was really very happy, and I hope that by adopting this law, we will move on to the eGovernment ranking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u5	I thank the appellants' representative, Mrs Barbořa Kořanová, and we will now continue with the news report. At first reading, the rapporteur is Mr Jan Kubík. And again, once the House calms down... All right, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u6	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Since this is a parliamentary proposal that has support across all parties and has already received its support, I will be very brief. We live in the 21st century and the Internet is a common part of our lives. No problem to start a bank account over the Internet, borrow money, make a binding order or buy. However, natural and legal persons often encounter if they wish to communicate online with our authorities. We have heard and read much about this law. This proposal brings a revolution by giving everyone the right to communicate with the authorities electronically and the authorities, on the contrary, an obligation to allow this to happen. Of course, this is without prejudice to the possibility of personal conduct at the offices as it has been so far. An exception should be cases that cannot be demonstrated online, e.g. physical issue of license plates. On the basis of this law, the Government should issue an agenda catalogue within 12 months of its entry into force and subsequently implement it in the next four years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u7	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace! I have already said once that if you are having a different debate on a subject other than the right to digital services, it is crucially in the foyer! Or I'll break the negotiations! Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u8	The law will have a positive impact on citizens, as it brings them new rights and limits them, for example. obligations to document the facts on which the public administration already maintains data or which can be obtained from a record in the basic registers. Therefore, there should be no need to prove anything that has already been documented. Authorities should share data with each other. At the same time, it provides citizens with a 20% discount on administrative and judicial charges if they choose electronic communications. The basic idea of the bill is to place the right to digital service in the hands of every user of the service, i.e. to use the real electronic public administration. The basic objective, as well as the reason for submitting a bill, is to establish a general right for natural and legal persons concerning the provision of digital services as equivalent forms of otherwise non-digital but objectively digitised services, as well as provisions corresponding to the obligation of public authorities to provide such digital services under the conditions laid down in the draft law. In view of the broad support, I expect a smooth procedure of approval and I beg you to support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u9	I thank the rapporteur for his report and open the debate. First is Mr Martin Kupka, then Mr Ivan Bartoš and then Mr Ondřej Profant. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u10	Hello, Mr President, honourable members of the government, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The law we are discussing right now is really an ambition to be groundbreaking, in several ways. The first consideration, the first plane, is finally to significantly advance digitalisation in the Czech Republic. And I don't mean digitalization, which is often presented as digitalization for digitization, when new responsibilities arise, new actions, but they're only digital. The law does not do what, unfortunately, has often been sinned upon, simply translating what we have in paper form in a simple way into digital. The law really has a real chance to accelerate digitization within the Czech Republic. The main instrument why this law can do this is to overcome traditional Czech resortism. That he is able to look at a citizen in this regard, the responsibilities of the state from a different point of view than other laws. As it has been said, this is not a law that would assign citizens a new duty. This is a law which, on the contrary, gives citizens rights. It gives the right, if it decides to communicate electronically with the State, so that the State respects it, adapts to it and in such a case it really provides those services electronically and thus saves itself funding. Because that's the key, that's the key, and I'd say the basic instinct of why we came up with the law. And as it has been said, they are coming with him - and here they have managed to find a consensus across the political spectrum, and they have also managed to find a consensus across the professional public. I would also like to emphasise that here. I would also like to emphasise the approach of the ICT Union and Zdeněk Zajíček, who managed the entire preparation of the law, and thanks to his initiative here we can actually discuss the law. I'm gonna try, even if it sounds a little bit, to mention what the law really can be good for. I will try to mention specific aspects to show that this is not an academic consideration that it is not a salon discussion that would take place either in professional circles or in political discussions that would take place here in the House. One of the things that the law really can bring is that we won't need to pull a few different documents out of our wallets, but that only needs one document. One document that will prove your identity and cost everything else he has in his registers will be able to trace himself. And what's important - it'll make the data much more up-to-date, much more accurate, because the plastic card is just some kind of certificate. The data is hiding behind her, and thanks to this law, they will be available. If you choose to trust the state and give it the right to share your data between the various departments, between the various agendas, it will also mean that there will be no need to prove that the authorities will automatically fill the information into automatic forms themselves, they will find it themselves, they will work with them themselves. I think we've all experienced many times when we have to rewrite the data that the state already has, or document various extracts from the registers, even though the clerk could very easily look them up himself. Even in this respect, the law really offers a breakthrough solution, because from now on, it will be an obligation on the part of the state. The moment you give consent to sharing those data, from that moment on, the state must deal with it and must not ask you to re-submit what it already has. Another of the essential reasons why I believe that this is a breakthrough law is that it also offers inventory of what the state is already doing and what it should do electronically. It expects a digital service catalogue to be created within a period of one year. That digital service catalogue is going to be the real inventory of everything that the state wants people to do, what's going on in individual offices. Subsequently, the government will decide what time the digital services will be implemented with a limit of four years. So when you reach your service, such as building proceedings, by electronic means, when you reach another electronic agenda that the state might already provide, but may not yet provide. That's a very specific offer. That is why I am also saying that this discussion will not be salonary, it has these clear time contours, and it puts a clear claim on the government if the Chamber of Deputies has already signed under it, across the clubs, that it is a commitment meant seriously and that it means so much not to talk about digitalisation, but to convert it into real life, into real practice in the form of digital services that the citizen will really be able to use. At the outset, I mentioned that the breakthrough took place in offering to bridge traditional Czech resortism. Because a clerk has to act naturally that if he doesn't have legal authority to do something, he won't do it. However, this law clearly states that it has the authority to share data, to register them so that all other agendas can be used and that they do not have to ask the citizen again and again for what the state has acquired. I believe that the examples of many other states that have outrun us in the electronisation of the building process set a good example, that this is a concrete, tangible positive effect, that it has an effect on how people live in those countries. That this really contributes to making the economy in that state better, because it will simply be able to manage the civil service more efficiently electronically. He won't need more and more people to do it, he won't need more and more money, and he won't need more and more time to do it. These are the concrete positive effects of the law. I firmly hope that in the course of the discussion it will be able to obtain support for him and that it will be confirmed that the consent expressed by almost a hundred and forty signatures will materialize in the form of a legal standard as quickly as possible and correctly adopted. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u11	Thank you, Mr Martin Kupek. Now with priority rights, President Ivan Bartoš, will prepare colleague Ondřej Profant. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I just want to apologize to Ondr Profant for overtaking him, he applied properly, we didn't quite agree on the order. I would like to highlight one more aspect of how this parliamentary proposal came here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I think that it is showing up, and maybe it will be more common in other areas, that there may be agreement on key issues across the spectrum through individual clubs in the Chamber of Deputies, with different levels of active participation, of course. For example, we saw this when we were dealing with the possibility of speeding up the construction of line structures. This is the case where platforms are created under committees in the Chamber of Deputies, which do not fully copy the distribution of competences of the various committees, but are met by Members and experts, for example, in the field of health, because digitization also concerns the field of health, from the area of transport. I am pleased that we have managed to drive this platform under the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I hope that, even in the future, under these working groups, there will be some appropriate joint design of solutions for the digitalisation of the building process, or, for example, the legislation that would allow the use of identification in state communication through identities that would verify banking institutions. Now there's been a lot of these foreign trips going on, and whether they're beneficial or not. I must say that on the issue of preparing this bill, when we were at a two-day very busy working meeting in England at GOV.UK We are simply able to translate positive examples into solutions, which we are subsequently proposing. After all, the Ministry of Regional Development, Vlado Dzurilla, as well as the Public Administration Committee, was now in Finland, where world leaders are once again in the issue of the digitalisation of building management, the use of digital maps. So, yes, if you travel abroad with the committee, it can have these effects, and I'm happy for them, and I'm glad that we could take advantage of the experience from England in the bill. I would like to thank the representatives of the government, the government and Minister Hamáček. At one point, we supported this law to land here by first reading, where, of course, the signature of the Ministry of the Interior, which is still competently digitized, was crucial, and the support of the Prime Minister, which was not only declared, but was real, because the government gave its final position to agree, was of great benefit to the fact that, in such a short period of time since the performance, although the preparation lasted nine months, there was the law at first reading. I would like to draw attention to two other things. We are talking about a roof law that will require further legislative changes. Although it is designed not to be a direct requirement for these legislative changes, because it simply applies to the general rule in the law and other laws may define the communication, however it will require legislative changes. And we've already got a deadline to discuss by 4. 6. amendments to the laws of the Ministry of Interior workshops which reflect the needs of this legislation. I hope that every time we get to this and it's some change that's happening because of this law right to digital service, we won't fight over and over again. Indeed, this material of change, which is not directly related to this law, will now go as its own prints, has about 450 pages and will be dealt with again by all the parties and Members who participated in this proposal. And I thank the ministries that they have prepared this first package, which will then follow. Perhaps the last thing I would like to mention is that, of course, digitization is a process that will bring costs on the one hand. He will soon spare them. It's not just that you don't print thousands of papers and you don't store them in the archives, but it's in the job and the state apparatus and the officials who just work with the shared data fund. It is important that when we release this money, and the Digital Czech Republic, of course, is counting on it to cost every year when the budget is approved, so these are the costs that intersect with this proposal, or this whole principle that introduces the law on the right to digital service. So they're not extra costs. If we want to implement the Digital Czech Republic, of course it will cost money and it will cost us here, on the MEPs, on the opposition and on the government sides, it is for us to ensure that digitization takes place effectively and transparently. I understand that suppliers will just be private commercial companies, even big companies that we don't have to have the best experience with. So let's not make the same mistake, let's not get, if we actually go all together for five years to digitize, to a situation where we're in some kind of vendor lock-in, like we see at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, where the new digital governance will be delivered as a blackbox, which will not even be understood by the people who use it, where every change will cost big money, which will be expensive, which will have bad licenses, will not be modular, so they will not be able to use it for the same agenda for more ministries. So if we really are interested in digitizing it, and I believe that this law will support the Chamber of Deputies, let us be careful in the coming years to ensure that digitalisation takes place in a pure, transparent manner and that, indeed, in the final sum, large savings will be made for the future. I thank you for your support for this proposal, as well as for all those from Members, including from the legal sector, and perhaps from the professional sector, to prepare this legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u13	I thank Mr Bartoš. I will ask my colleague, Ondřej Profant, to be patient, Mr. Václav Klaus has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u14	I'm listening to the debate, the digital one, so I translated it a little bit into Czech. So the influential ODS lobbyist, Mr. Zajíček, invented a digitization law, Mr. Bartoš almost cried out here with the bliss of how great the law is, and the Prime Minister also supports it. So you're not gonna figure it out. Well, long live the digitalization.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now two factual points - Mr Kupka and Mr Bartoš. A colleague of Kupka's with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u16	I wonder how to respond to such nonsense, because the interpretation is, of course, out of order. There have been clear, concrete reasons for how this will practically help, how it will work, so that it does not overwhelm public administration or Czech citizens with other unnecessary bureaucracy, albeit electronic. The law is going to make the state work better. That's a common interest. The fact that experts participated in it, that the Chamber of Commerce was involved in it, on the contrary, I consider it a clear positive that everyone here calls for the laws we adopt to be based on real practice and to respond to what the Czech professional public currently lives and what they would like to enforce for the Czech public administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I will tell my colleague Profant that I have at least two factual points here - Ivan Bartoš and Jan Lipavský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u18	I'll respond briefly. If I admire anything about Mr. Klaus and his performances like this, it's that nine months or ten months of work that he wasn't interested in, he can sum up in three sentences that aren't based on the truth just from the point of view that somehow I'm not subject to unnecessary emotions, I've only described things as they were. If you were interested in the negotiations or the digitalization, maybe you wouldn't be talking like that. So I was definitely not distracted here, my emotions are natural. I'm not the one screaming and playing some camera theater. I just described the situation. So next time, forgive yourself for this kind of personal stuff. And I'm very happy to meet you. I'm sure you're an expert on a number of things, banking. Take part with us in those working groups in the SONIA project or digitization of the building process. It's modern. It's beneficial. It's cool. You're gonna love it. And then maybe you'll be performing with some other gig. I have, of course, turned to you through the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now please, with a factual remark from Mr Lipavský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u20	Madam, honourable Members, Mr President, I understand that Mr Klaus defends the true conservative values, which is the paper. And maybe that would solve the problem with barkwood, that it would make the paper out of it. So I guess this isn't the way we want to go. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u21	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm also one of those who signed this bill. And I'm glad for that. Certainly in the Czech Republic in the 21st century there is no greater digitization or more electronization of the state administration. It is a good step and I am glad that political parties across the Chamber of Deputies have agreed on it. But I would like it not to be misinterpreted, to do even a small recapitulation of what was done before this law was passed, within the Ministry of the Interior and the Czech State. Because I'm a piece of legislation that's been here a long time, so just a short recap for a possible record. I think it was a fundamental amendment to the Basic Registers Act, which we have on the agenda after all. This reflected the experience gained from the operation and use of the state's basic registers. A very good law was also a law on trust services for electronic transactions. It is a modern standard that regulates the use of electronic signature and other electronic authentication elements, which I think is also a very beneficial thing for citizens of the Czech Republic. Conceptual amendment to the Public Administration Information Systems Act, which makes the management of public administration information systems more effective by the State. It's also a very important law. Amendment to the Civil Card Act, which introduced electronic ID cards as the main means of electronic identification of citizens. The Electronic Identification Act, which filled out the last significant gap that prevented the use of online services in the public sector by laying down rules for unambiguous identification in the electronic world. Last but not least, the Act on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications, which ensures that even handicapped people can use online public sector services. I just wanted to do a short recap, that this isn't the first swallow, but that there were a lot of steps with regard to the Ministry of the Interior or the former government, that was before the government without trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u23	Thank you, too. And there are two factual points. First Mr Stanjura, then Mrs Válková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u24	So it does not give me a response to the speech by you of my fellow President of the ČSSD. It's kind of the official language. I would say completely useless. The key task is to make the regulations, the stamps, the confirmations less. That's a key task. But that is what the Social Democrats fear like the devil of the cross. The second is to allow those who want to communicate with the state electronically. And that brings up this bill. So that's how easy it is. Of course, if we pass the law and, at the same time, the government comes up with more and more regulations, orders, violations, it doesn't really help. So the law is well written, there's a point. But that is not the list of laws made by President Chvojka. The key is to reduce the number of stamps and confirmations. The state knows everything about us, and it wants us over and over again. Still I.D., birth number, health insurance. Over and over. Every D.O.D. keeps it close and won't let go. That's the basic problem. So the law is good, it's a possibility. But the main task is yet to come - to reduce the bureaucratic burden of citizens, teachers, entrepreneurs, doctors, so that they have time for their profession and do not have to do anything unnecessarily. And it's not like we filled in the last place. I'm sorry, but it's obvious that it's written by officials who don't know normal communication between normal people. Everyone's pissed they have to fill something out all the time. That's the key problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u25	Thank you and now, with Mrs Válková's point of fact, then Mr Bláha, then Mr Klaus. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u26	I'll speak carefully here for perhaps the more conservative and older of us. When I read the law, which, of course, does not belong to my sphere of competence, it does not concern justice nor is it complicatedly written, but I think it is more important to say that it is clear, understandable and conceived traditionally. So there's no betrayal. And I read it carefully for one reason. I mainly focused on whether, for whatever reason, those of us who do not want to digitally communicate with the authorities, whether they will retain their status, the right, the possibility of a contact point. I couldn't find anything that threatened this. Now I've made up my mind one more time. So from my point of view, on the one hand, for those who want to facilitate their position, a significant ease. For those who want to remain more conservative and gradually learn, I welcome the fact that they are not forced to do anything. I will always watch this for the sake of us, our older generation, more conservative, even fellow citizens who are not so flexible. So even I'd be happy to raise my hand for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Bláha, then Mr Klaus, then I would like to give the floor to Mr Chvojka and then Mr Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u28	Dear colleagues, the Chamber of Commerce informed most of us about the form of the right to digital services at least a year ago. We've been talking about this in the group for a year, about reducing the business burden, and we know it's important for a year, and we all support it. So I'm even more sorry that, actually, instead of talking about the changes, we're back here trying to figure out who's gonna get their political points. So let's put the political points behind us and let's really talk about the form of this law. I think it's really breakable. And I am glad that the Chamber of Commerce has made sure that the law of this kind should be established. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Now I beg Mr Klaus, then President Chvojka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u30	I would follow up on Mr Stanjura through you, because that is what this is about. If it were to be a groundbreaking law, it would be a law where the state will stop harassing citizens in any of its activities, whether businessmen or citizens. Personally, and I'm probably a little conservative, but I don't give a damn if the state's pissing me off digitally or papery or whatever. So that's what this is all about. That would be a groundbreaking law. Now we're dealing with a technical law where I just took the liberty of pointing out a comic part of what's here... three speakers took turns, who mostly attacked each other furiously, and everyone clearly praised it, so it seemed funny to me, so that's why I got off. But once again, when the time comes, there should be laws in this House that will take away bureaucratic duties for citizens and companies. And it doesn't matter what form. However, I wish you all the joy of adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u31	Thank you, too, and now I am asking Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u32	Thank you for the floor. I will only briefly respond through you, Mr Vice-President, to President Stanjuru. I think his right-wing, pointless thrust wasn't quite right, because I didn't say anything that Chairman Stanjura was talking about. I was talking about the fact that all of us who signed the law, and we were really crossed, we're not pioneers, that until now it would be so that everything has to be on paper, and from now on, when this law is passed, which has been signed across, everything will go digitally or electronically. I've just done an overview of what's been going on here over the years. I think a lot has been done, and as an example, I will mention once again, for example, an electronic signature or an electronic ID card. What does that have to do with bureaucracy or any unnecessary public administration actions? On the contrary, it's going to make the communication easier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u33	Thank you for your time, and I now ask Mr Kupka, after which Mr Blažek and Mrs Kořanová, with factual comments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u34	Once again, I just want to Klaus out that the turnaround is taking place here. Most of the laws we've been discussing have brought some responsibilities. This law brings people rights. The right to - if they choose it, and it will be recited here, this law really does not force anyone for whom the digital world is not their own, to suddenly start communicating with the state electronically. It preserves all those who are for this traditional journey, their traditional path. But for those and for the state we pay for it, we want it - and this law brings - to adapt and to start answering electronically and actually saving itself by doing so. And what about the real austerity of bureaucracy? So it upsets me when I have to waste time writing out the data that the state has a long time ago, and it annoys me when I have to submit a document of criminal record somewhere when the office can look at it with one tap. And the fact that the law also brings us enough protection from the expansion of the state, which, by the way, also includes the law; and include data boxes, that at that point the state will be obliged to show where it looked and what data it used. In this respect, it is a law that traditionally combines the efficiency of state administration, combines security for citizens who make their data available, and in this respect it is indeed a law that is correctly issued into the 21st century and offers modern functioning of public administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u35	Thank you and now please Mr Blažek, Mrs Kořanová will be ready, then Mr Klaus. Mr Blažek is obviously not here, so his application is forfeit. Please, Mrs Kořanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u36	Thank you for the floor. I don't want this debate to become a ping-pong between my colleagues and my colleague Klaus. I respond to both Mr. Klaus and Mr. Stanjura through you. Basically, I'm going to supplement my colleague Kupka. Yes, the simplification here is - not just bureaucracy, but tell me what is not simplification. It's simplistic. It's just that if you get pulled over by a cop on the road or on the highway, you don't have to show him your driver's license, because that cop can look it up in the basic registers. You won't have to present a college degree. You basically fill out any form once, and then basically, if you log on to the Citizen's Portal for example, the state will fill out the form for you. What's not easy about that? I think it's a huge simplification. Or, for example, signing by e-signing or using bank identity, not only in relation to or in relation to the state, but also to private entities, which means that you can basically sign an electronic contract with the water, heat and other private entities. So it's really simplifying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u37	Thank you and now please Mr Klaus. Mr. Kováčik will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u38	I won't hold up any longer. It's not my goal to obstruct. First point. I don't really trust these MPs when they talk about how something's gonna get easier, there's only gonna be one register where it's all gonna spill beautifully, and so on. I've seen it in education a thousand times. As a result, the registers were a thousand, and the entire board of directors was covered in login passwords and other things. It's possible that this is the moment when it really unites. I just don't believe it. The second thing that concerns Mr. Kupka. How it's gonna make things easier and that it's the people's right. Well, that's nice. I agree. But those people, if they have the right to communicate electronically, it's gonna cost a lot of money, and it's gonna pay the taxpayer, like a lumberjack. So the money will be spent there from a number of citizens, for whom it is not a priority. So it's completely legitimate to talk about this, and I'm just pointing out this strange atmosphere. That he's always suspicious, when the House is 99 percent united, there's always some devil's hoove in it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u39	Thank you and now, with the last point of fact, President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u40	Thank you. You know what a person is, the opinion. Everyone thinks otherwise. Everyone has different expectations from what this thing is supposed to bring. Just as the debate is going on - through the President's colleague here, next to me, I would like to say that the driver is obliged to prove himself or to prove his identity at the request of the police authorities and the police authority can then verify himself in the basic registers, if that is the case. But the driver is obliged at the invitation to prove that he is capable and should continue to be, because this is the duty of the driver. But it can be simplified. It's not that a police officer, based on his digital noseprint, has verified in the basic registers that he's really a Kováčik driver or anyone else. But I don't want to say, it was supposed to be just a little bonmot attempt. But I signed it because it's been a number of times with good expectations that it will finally break what it is. The greater digitization, the greater the administration, the greater the responsibilities, the greater the proof, and so it is actually quite common that the progressing digitization makes things more complex, because it is still necessary to show paperwork and, to be sure, two or three times more so that it is possible to do so with possible follow-up. So please -- and I signed it because I believe that this time we're going to make a major breakthrough, and not that we're going to want to do the right thing, as always, and it's going to turn out the way it always does. Please don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u41	Thank you, too. That was the last point in fact at the moment, so the next one should be Mr Profant's turn in the general debate. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to the note cards. Mr Holík apologizes to us for reasons of employment from 18.00 pm, Minister Antonín Staněk updates his apology from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for reasons of employment and apologizes to us from this day to Friday 31. 5. on account of foreign travel, Mr Pustějovskýějovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, everyone. I will return to the substantive debate on the law after these extempores of people who have not clearly read it in detail. Of course, I support this law because I have been involved in its creation for the entire nine months. This law really brings about a change, a change in the paradigm. Most of the laws that we approve here deal with internal public administration problems and then transfer the obligations to people. That is, when the tax administration has a problem proving something, we give a man a duty to fill out more paper. It's different here. On the contrary, we are committed to public administration in order to use what it already has and not to annoy people, and we are giving it in a really understandable form, as Mrs Válková said earlier through the President, which is very good, because one can hardly defend himself by a law that entitles him to something, but which de facto cannot be understood as a layman. And we have so many laws like that today. And I think this paradigm is very important. Of course, this paradigm is a big change, but of course the whole proposal is a compromise, and from my point of view it comes quite late. [[15.30 hours]] When we look at the state in many other countries, digitalization works much better in practice. In theory, we don't have it so bad, but the practice is limping. And here I would very much like to emphasise the role of executive, because, in my view, the digitalisation is not too hindered by legislation. It's about whether the executives are going to make high-quality digitalization, if the information systems are really going to be modular, flexible, user-friendly, not overpriced, there aren't going to be cases, etc. Then, of course, people will use them. Unfortunately, our executives usually fail, so we have more of a public contract here, which is a joke to everyone. As for the fact that we already have enough legislation, as colleagues from ČSSD said here, well, we do, however, almost all the legislation that they have named, which has happened here, whether it be new IDs, whether it be the accessibility of the website, identity, after all, banking identity, these are the things that came from the EU, because it takes care of it. These are not our things where someone would try to solve these purely our problems, but they are things that have come from the EU, for which I am very grateful to the European Union, and it is good that they are united. But we really have a problem with the unwillingness of the public administration to accept the real digitization as its own and really make it easier, just like the banks do. These are also large, genuinely bureaucratic organizations, but they try to accommodate their clients, allowing a lot of services to be dealt with over the Internet. This is exactly how the state should work. So much so that this law has the positive impact that we expect from it, is that the executives take it as their own and don't mess it up to be helpful to their employees, to have the right experts, etc. [[unintelligible]] So I just wanted to point that out. So I support this law and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u43	I, too, thank you, and now please Mr Benda, who is signed up for the general debate. I'll introduce you to a note. Mrs Maříková apologizes for today's meeting from 5:45 p.m. to the end for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u44	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Minister, Madam Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be long. I was also involved in some preparation of the law just like that complete computer layman, who is afraid that too wild digitalizers will make our life - us, the simpler ones, who aren't so good with these computers - very difficult. I think it has been maintained throughout the hearing that they will not fall on a citizen who will not want any new responsibilities. The only thing I see as a risk is the possibility of being set up for every data box. It doesn't have to be activated, it will depend on me if I activate it, but of course I will be afraid of the other bills that will come from individual departments and which they will say, but here we might also want to communicate through a data box, as the Financial Administration is already showing us with business entities. And then I'll be scared and I'll always be up here saying no, we can't ask every citizen to have to be able to work with a computer. That's what I think is one crucial condition that we should be holding on to. Then what the honourable colleague Chvojka said. Those great new IDs with the chip, I don't know if you've tried to revive them yet. I, after the chair of the Committee on DigitalizationMichálek ordered that we sign electronically in the subcommittee on digitalisation, set up a new electronic ID for 200 and found that there must be so many passwords to be memorized in order to go through the basic system, that it does not really seem to me as a very supporting system for citizens. But it's not for this law. This law should really enable those who want and are interested and who can do so to communicate with the State more easily, and, in my view, it should also, of course, save officials as a result. So much for the general debate that has been said. Then I would have one request to vote on the commandment to the committees. I think, and not only because I want to see a lovely speaker on the committee, but because this is a law in which questions are also being dealt with, and it was one of the things that we talked about for quite a long time on that group, the issues of public documents, their validation, their extradition, so I would ask that the bill be given to the constitutionally-legal committee, because the issue of public documents is a question that belongs within our remit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-28-ps2017-030-01-002-038.u45	Thank you. These are all speakers who have been enrolled in the general debate. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final word after the general debate. It's not like that. I do not think there have been any proposals for a return or rejection, so we will now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. In that case, I would like to begin the vote, even if my colleagues have not yet arrived, however... [[Waiting for Members to come to the Chamber.]] Looks like the O.R.'s already filled. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who is in favour of the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee's commandments as a guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 18, 178 Members and Members were registered, for 154, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has therefore been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee for discussion. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I'm the one who noted the proposal for the Constitutional Committee. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? If that is not the case, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 19 178 Members and Members are registered, for 113, against 11. The motion was accepted. So I am of the opinion that we have also ordered this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee as another committee for discussion. I do not believe that there have been proposals in the general debate to shorten or extend the deadline, so we have dealt with this press at first reading. I thank you, and I'm done discussing it. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] Let's move on. There's another one here.
