ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u1	217. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 28th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of nine responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and for this reason asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have three more responses to the written interpelations to discuss today. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the sitting of the House, no debate shall be held in response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion or discuss it. We shall now proceed to the first matter. It is therefore Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, now new. And this is an interpelation by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček on the right course in criminal proceedings, House Press 429. It was interrupted. Former Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek replied to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's interview on the right course in criminal proceedings. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 429. The discussion of this response has been suspended. And I'm opening the debate. Anyone reporting for the debate? Madam Secretary, are you reporting in the debate? [[No.]] No. If no one else is in the debate, I am done with the debate. And I'm asking the MP... I'm looking to see if the MP's even here. But the MP is excused. That means we're basically not going to discuss this interpellation. He's failing. We've got another, second thing, and that's... let's see, I'm sorry, because as many apologies are on the verge of it, it's hard to remember who's excused. We have a second interview - it is Mr Blaha and I will take a look - he is also excused, Mr Stanislav Blaha. So his interpellation is failing again. And number three - that's for Secretary Maláčová, and he's Mr Stanjura, he's here. So let's get down to three. I'm just gonna do some background work here. So the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová responded to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interpellation on further steps by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the area of private pension savings with regard to the upcoming changes to the pension system. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 460. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. And I'm opening the debate. So, Mr. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u2	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, honourable colleagues. If you look at the Parliament's press 460/0, I'm sure you'll agree with me that the Vice-President's words that she answered me are very high. Yes, I received a letter, you can read the wording of this letter in document 460/0, but there is no answer, so I am simply saying that I will ask the House to disagree with the so-called reply, and I hope that the Minister will actually answer me. I have turned to the Minister for Questions concerning the third pillar of the pension system. I don't think the interpellation is ideologically colored. I've summarized the facts, there are tables and things like that. Why did I turn to the secretary? I think it was January of this year, as the Minister is such that he has one good idea every week, so in January I noted her statement that the third pillar should be mandatory. Now she doesn't talk about it, she even texted me, let me quote it, not that I didn't know it: "Please allow me to inform you that the area of private savings for old age in the Czech Republic, represented especially by supplementary pension savings and some life savings products, is part of the Gesture of the Ministry of Finance, which would certainly be a better correspondent for your intervention." Well, I don't think that's true, that she'd be a better responder. Thanks to the fact that the Minister herself actively proposed a compulsory third pillar in January, I think there is room for us to debate whether this proposal is reasonable or not, what it would bring, how it would help, how it would harm. However, at the same time, the Minister wrote to me - and I think that the two or three paragraphs are really worth it to be on the screen record: "Despite this formal lack," that I wrote it to the Minister and not to the Minister of Finance...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u3	I'm gonna ask you to calm down! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u4	So the Minister writes to me: "Despite this formal lack, I am pleased to inform you that I am planning to address the area of financial security throughout the complex and therefore consider relevant changes in supplementary pension schemes. " In this paragraph, the Minister is actually contradicting himself, because she wrote to me earlier that I should deal with the Ministry of Finance, and here she will write that it will deal comprehensively, including supplementary pension schemes, which I think is correct. That means, it's not true that I should have contacted the Treasury. But I really must appreciate the official language: "In the personnel composition of the Commission for Fair Pensions established by me, in which a member of your parliamentary club sat down by the way, representatives of the Ministry of Finance are represented, thereby ensuring possible close cooperation between the two departments on issues that go beyond the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The Commission on Fair Pensions will deal with supplementary pension savings in at least two levels in the coming months - as a means of additional pension provision for persons working in physically demanding or health-threatening professions, as well as in terms of possible changes, which would increase the importance of supplementary schemes on the overall pension provision of citizens of the Czech Republic." And that's actually all there is to the answer. If I had translated it, the secretary could have cut it short and wrote, "What you're bothering me isn't mine, it belongs to a colleague, but don't worry, we'll deal with everything comprehensively. I don't have an opinion on this yet, I don't want to anticipate the results of the commission, but you'll be informed in time if there are any results. - This is called an answer to the written interpellation of a member of the Chamber of Deputies. Among other things, I have pointed out that the third pillar is not popular with young people, those who are most at risk by not taking enough pension. I wrote to the secretary, she didn't dispute the numbers in any way, by the way, based on the Treasury statistics that 72 percent of the population doesn't have private pension insurance in the category under the age of 30. In 2050, if we don't do anything, it's only 25%. I asked the Minister what measures he wanted to implement and implement to increase the importance of supplementary pension savings. I also add tables in which I show the absolute dependence of Czech pensioners on the ongoing pillar. In international comparison, if you look at this table, we are in a completely unique situation, nowhere else is there such a high dependence on continuous virtually. state pension pillars like in the Czech Republic, but the Minister says that it is not a problem, the resources are and the resources will be. At some other point last time, we started having a debate with the Minister about what the right pensions are. I've got some answers, some of them, at least with the headlines of the problems, I'm sure I've agreed that's the thing we have to deal with. However, the key problem of the pension system that awaits us, I would say, after 2030, is to increase the amount of private money in the pension system. In addition to the one measure proposed by the Minister in January, perhaps only in an interview, perhaps no legislative initiative has taken, perhaps no political negotiations have taken place in this - to establish a mandatory third pillar. I remember the fierce opposition of the Czech Social Democratic Party against the second pillar, especially if God forbid it was mandatory. That's how it feels really smiling. We can call it a second or a third, but if someone proposes a mandatory third pillar, it's basically a mandatory second pillar. It's just mandatory insurance, and in my understanding of the world, it's a new additional burden on taxes, which is called pension insurance, but at the same time it's mandatory, which means everyone would have to, whether they wanted to or didn't want to, take that money. I'd like to ask the secretary what about her, not the committee, what she's going to do with these negotiations, whether she's going to promote a mandatory third pillar or not. If not, what other tools he wants to use to make pension savings more attractive. By the way, she mentions this at the end of her letter saying: we need to inform citizens that they are in danger of being threatened by certain groups after they enter the pension and of reducing the standard of living. No doubt that's true today. If you look at the middle class or the upper middle class - not to mention the richest ones, they don't care about any state pension, they just don't need it - but those who work honestly pay taxes honestly and honestly pay social insurance, or social tax, which means they're financing an ongoing pillar of the pension system today, so they're really in danger of a big fall in living standards and a big fall in income. This is something that we should be debating, and it is something that we should be dealing with in some way. We should find a solution that will have strong political support, which means more support than the current government majority against the current minority in the Chamber of Deputies. However, I did not learn anything from the answer, Madam Secretary, except that you will discuss it and that you will potentially cooperate closely with the Ministry of Finance. Don't be mad at me, that's not how I pictured the answer. I was expecting you to propose some concrete steps so that we could debate them on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, not just in the Committee on Fair Pensions. I've already asked you what you consider fair pensions. The Minister mentioned some of these aspects, such as the difficult professions, women's pensions, etc. I think she left out an important factor in the debate - I don't know if there are such statistics and I would ask for them if I did, maybe the committee already did - and that is the average duration of receiving pensions in different social, age or gender categories, because up to 2030, men will be retired later than women, while men receive an average pension shorter than women. I think that's a fact. But we'd need statistical data to figure out whether it's fair or not. Without this data, without these analyses, we just can't decide. So I believe the Secretary of State will at least answer some of these questions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u5	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is interested. Madam Secretary wants to get out. Are you interested in speaking in the debate? So, Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned - I will answer comprehensively first and then get to the individual points that President Stanjura has intersected. First of all, let me inform you that I really stand by this claim that the addressee of this interpelation should undoubtedly be the Minister of Finance, because the area of private savings for old age, represented mainly by supplementary pension savings and some life insurance products, falls under the Gesture of the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of Act No. 2/1969 Coll., on the establishment of ministries and other state bodies, responsible, inter alia, for insurance and pension funds. Despite this formal lack or error, I will try briefly to outline the basic theory of further possible developments. Several times, the Commission on Fair Pensions has been mentioned here. I think that this is precisely the platform, except, of course, two chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic, where these things should be discussed comprehensively. The ODS has two representatives on this committee who regularly participate in this commission and have 100% participation so far. At the same time, I would also like to inform you that the question of the third pillar, as well as the question of the earlier departure of physically demanding professions, will be discussed at the next meeting of the Fair Pensions Commission, which will take place on 24 May, that is to say in two weeks. However, it is evident that the area of financial security in old age needs to be addressed comprehensively and therefore also to consider relevant changes in supplementary and pension schemes. If the current additional private savings system for old age is strengthened in the future, it will certainly be good for the continuously funded state system, as it will cause more diversification of benefits and disadvantages of individual types of funding. Just to give you an idea, if I have to briefly evaluate or evaluate the functioning of the third pillar, the number of participants in this third pillar is constantly decreasing. Over the last five years, half a million people have probably fallen because of its unattractiveness, now saving about 4.5 miles in the third pillar. People. The President has already mentioned this; there are fewer than 40 percent of people under the age of 40 who cannot be attracted to cohorts; people under the age of 30 are in the third pillar. It saves almost 40 percent here, but people aged 65 to 69, which are people who should draw savings and not maximize state aid. Another aspect of the third pillar is that the state spends 20 billion annually on its support. CZK, for the state contribution for 2017 the state issued less than 7 billion, another 3 billion. the State does not collect on the basis of a deductible item from the income tax of natural persons and another 9 billion. then on unpaid insurance for the employer, i.e. a total of 20 billion. Over nine billion employers' support is only a quarter, which is very important to say. Over a ten-billion-dollar support for participants, employees will save only 2.5 percent of the average wage, which is - we are likely to agree on - absolutely inadequate as diversification of pension security. Another aspect is that most savings savers choose their savings on a one-time basis and, at a higher retirement age, saving does not help them increase their income. From this preliminary and very brief analysis - detailed will be sent ten days before the committee meeting, that is tomorrow, to all members of the expert committee and as is a good practice at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so this analysis will also be published on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - I think it can be said that the third pillar does not meet its expectations. I would also like to add that the Commission will deal with the third pillar or supplementary pension savings in at least two levels. Firstly, as a possible means of additional pension provision for persons working in physically demanding professions, this is in line with the Government's programming declaration, as well as in terms of possible changes, which would increase the importance of supplementary schemes in the overall pension provision of citizens of the Czech Republic. At this point, I would not like to anticipate the results of the meetings of the expert committee. I think it is precisely the platform where we are successful after a thorough analysis, a thorough discussion with the involvement of all parliamentary political parties and other actors who have something to say in the ageing and pension system policy, so we are able to find solutions, but this probably no longer belongs here. And I very much hope that the committee's possible solutions will find a match. I have a specific idea of dealing with the third pillar, but it has proved very useful to me not to take this idea forward so that I do not disturb the consensus of the Commission on Fair Pensions. It has already been mentioned that I think that an important factor in promoting voluntary savings on old age is also improving citizens' awareness of their national pension insurance claims. If citizens are informed in time how their income will change after retirement, their motivation for participation in their own retirement will increase. At the same time, let me inform you, even though I am really going to the Ministry of Finance here, that the government adopted in March of this year the Capital Market Development Concept in the Czech Republic for the years 2019 to 2023 and the purpose of this document is to show the strengths and weaknesses of the capital market and outline a strategy for its longer-term development. The document also includes a proposal for various possible measures for the future, one of which is for example. an assessment of the appropriateness of establishing a long-term investment account. However, as I pointed out at the outset, the details of the private savings plan for old age will undoubtedly be communicated to you by my dear colleague, Madam Secretary of Finance. Thank you. Or if you'll excuse me, I'm sorry, one last remark. I didn't propose mandatory savings in the third pillar. I have never called for any political negotiations on this subject, I have not come up with any concrete proposal. You, through Mr President, base this argument on one media claim that was unfortunately taken out of context. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u7	That was Madam Secretary. I'm asking - yes, Chairman Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor. Otherwise, I shall report that Mr Valenta has a replacement card number 13. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u8	Thank you for the floor. When I want to interpel the Minister of Finance, I'm sure I will, but this is where I've been intersecting you, Madam Secretary, so don't throw the potato one chair next door, nobody sits between you, it's not completely collegial. Maybe I'd start with the information. I agree with you that there is a need to raise awareness, but it is also necessary to tell the truth, and I have never heard it from you before. So we could start by saying that pension insurance is no insurance, that it's a tax, that no one saves on a pension by taking money from his or his or his employer every month, because many pensioners, new pensioners, are surprised and say: I've saved my whole life, I've done so much, and now I've got such a low pension. This is not what we do - note that I said "us" - we cannot explain that there is no savings in the ongoing system, that those who have the 10th, 12th, when they have a payout term, when they have the pension insurance amount deducted, whether for themselves or for employers, that the current pensions are paid. So let's at least try to agree to tell people as part of the information: it's no insurance, it's a normal equal tax. You don't save any of this, everything you do is used to retire existing pensioners. That's what you have to say. And that's where the buried dog is. That's why we're also saying that for the generation of today's 40s and youngers, if nothing changes, the number of payers in that ongoing system is simply decreasing by the demographic curve, the number of retirees is growing by how long life expectancy is, and then the compensation ratio has to fall dramatically logically, that is, the ratio of pensions to wages. [[9.30 hours]] Madam Secretary nods his head, doesn't he, but that's just the way it is. That's basically a simple three-piece. We could start by informing citizens to know: You pay no insurance because insurance is something that you are insured for an event that can or cannot happen to you. Your pension just happens. And at the same time, you're not saving anything outside the third pillar of that basic ongoing system. And that's not something we're talking about, and we haven't been able to explain that to the citizens yet. To this day, many believe that they will save money on their pension. Two. It's a very complicated calculation of the pension amount. Try to calculate, you here in this hall, who are just before you retire, try to figure out how much pension you're going to take. It's not an easy thing to do. In principle, I would advise you to contact social security management. You can't do the math on your own. I don't think it's good that you should know this so you can prepare yourself to know ten years ahead of time how he is, or 15 years ahead of time to know if there's a point in saving or not. I agree with the Minister that in the 65+ age category, there is a pension, the third pillar does not fulfil the role it should play. I totally agree with that. But that's why - we agree on that, we have the same numbers - that the number of participants in the third pillar is falling, it turns out that the share of private money is actually falling by the fact that we have a lower number of participants. Half a million is a huge loss over the years. And I say I've had numbers that save only 28 percent in 30 years, Madam Secretary said less than 40. I think the difference isn't too big, maybe it's the same number. Those 20 billion, that's where I think it's very brave not to take social security. You're counting on the employer's contributions? Or I don't know. I understand how you quantified the state's contribution to the third pillar, 7 billion. in 2017, I understand the 3 billion, which is a deductible item if you apply it to income tax on dependent activities. But the other 10 billion. I don't understand. What billions are these? You're saying you didn't take social security - for what? I really didn't get that, so I'd like you to explain... Ten billion is undoubtedly true, whether it's a direct contribution or a deductible item, but I don't understand where the other money is over the 10 billion. Now let's see how we can change the parameters to make it more attractive. Many of us have been part of the third pillar since 2000, which means 19 years, and I will save according to what is best for me. If the limit is 36 thousand. per year, it is set so that 24 thousand. I can use it as a deductible item, so anyone who counts their own taxes knows it's just ideal. And saving more actually makes no sense from an economic point of view. So that's the first thing to debate is whether the amount should be higher? So there could be a higher amount of money. The second thing to debate is whether a minimum clause should be set. Because if someone saves CZK 100 or CZK 200 a month, it doesn't make any economic sense even during those, let's say, tens of years. If she shouldn't be there... Yes, I know the partial answer that the amount of the state contribution depends on the amount of the deposit, but in general, in order to increase the amount of private money, it might be better to set a minimum deposit that already makes some economic sense. And the third thing, that's the employer's contribution. Although this increased a few years ago, I think it was the amendment of our former colleague, a Member of Social Democracy, who had Zavadil Members, but it is still a matter for discussion. If you say, Madam Secretary, that only 25 percent of employers contribute, we would again need statistics on whether this number is growing, even on the basis that the law has changed and that the amount has been increased for employers when it is still acceptable. Yes, if it was the intended purpose, that the purpose was to encourage and motivate employers to contribute to employees. Without those numbers, it's really complicated. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, to say it, it's kind of Slavia-like: I know, but I won't. I know what I'd do with the third pillar, but it's proven to me that I'm not gonna tell anyone, or I'm not gonna say it on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Then I don't think that's a good way to find a political consensus. Okay. You've made a committee with almost 50 members. It's your jurisdiction. I don't want to interfere. However, in order for the Commission's output to be reflected in the bill, in some reform with great political support, a political party agreement is important. And then the commission can't have 45 members, but it has to be much closer, and there is a need to debate the view of individual political parties that would support the measures, which would not, which parameter need to be increased or recommended to decrease and so on. That's how I feel the committee is just a committee. It reminds me of the last Potůčkův Commission, which was called the Pension Reform Commission, instead of being called the Second Pillar Cancellation Commission. No offense, it's just politically legitimate. They wanted to cancel the second pillar, they had the strength, they canceled the second pillar. That was all the commission produced. I fear that the result of this commission's work will be very similar, that the Minister has been pulling out so far, not only piercing that irrelevant, but only individual parts of the whole system. That's what he's targeting, but the whole thing's disappearing. I think the key question is how, after 2030, to get more private money to the pension system after 2030 after 2035. That's the key question, isn't it? It could be an answer to demographic developments. Saying nothing's gonna happen, that he's always gonna be... Yeah, he'll always be on some pensions. But we won't be able to keep the replacement ratio somewhere about 40 or 42 percent. If it doesn't increase, if this doesn't increase. And I'd like to ask the secretary for a brief comment on my interpellation. There is a table showing how much private money is given in individual states. Whether she could comment on this in any way, the unique position of the Czech Republic. Do they not see inspiration in some other countries? I don't want to say which ones. Or maybe we don't really care what's going on abroad, we don't care that there are states where the pensions are much - on average, now I don't mean in absolute terms, they've converted the euro to the crowns, that the pensions are just higher. And we're gonna have some committee here that's gonna meet regularly. Our deputies will, of course, go there. It's no surprise. However, so far, the results are very poor. And if something doesn't change, I think they'll stay very weak, too. It is also close to the time when we will first reconsider whether or not the reduction in retirement age in 2030 is correct. But that is precisely the question that distracts attention from the fundamental - how to reduce the dependence of our future retirees on the ongoing system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u9	I now have two applications for the debate, both with priority rights. That means, first, Minister Maláčová, then Chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. And so far, these are the last two applications I have here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u10	Thank you. I would respond to individual statements. President Stanjura, through the President, mentioned that if the population grows old and the number of seniors increases - and you know that at this point we have 18 percent of the population over 65 years of age, this means 2.5 million for the overall population. Old-age pensioners, by 2030 it will be 25 percent, and in 2050 it will be a third of the population - so the average income-to-average wage ratio has to automatically decrease. I don't think that's the only solution. I've been saying this for a long time. We can also go along the path of Germany, which is trying to find additional revenue from the state budget to stabilise its pension account, so that the possible outage can be settled. And I think that this should also be a journey for the Czech Republic, especially given that we are giving about 8 percent of GDP to our pensions, the average of the European Union is somewhere over 10 percent, and there are states like Poland and Austria, which give over 12 percent. Of course, this also shows that our pension system is based on economic performance, which means that there is at least one variable that we cannot estimate at the moment. Nevertheless, I admit and I am very keenly aware that this demographic development is a very serious factor that we take seriously, and we are working intensively on the financial sustainability of the pension system. [[9.40 hours]] To get back to the female versus male ratio, how long they've been on average, we're talking about average numbers, from the pension system. Well, it's been 27 years with women, and it's 21 years with men. That means there's a six-year difference. Of course, the number is decreasing, the difference, progressing in development. And if I understand correctly, the President is heading to see why women shouldn't have lower pensions when they draw longer from the system. I think the logic would probably be the same with smokers. Because smokers are statistically and on average drawing longer periods from the pension system, so if we had this logic, which I think is not right and is slightly absurd, it would mean that we should give smokers higher pensions. I don't identify with this logic. About the inability to calculate my pension. I remember when I lived in Germany that the German Finance Minister Friedrich Merz was promising at the time, I think it was in the 2006 elections that Germany would be able - everyone would be able to calculate their taxes, calculated on the basis of a simple mathematical operation on a beer tray. You know this didn't happen. And I am thinking in vain at the moment, but I will admit that I do not have a map of the situation, which developed countries, whether from OECD countries or the EU, exist, where citizens are able simply to calculate their pension without the knowledge of the whole system. I believe that such a country does not exist. As far as the minimum deposit is concerned, I identify with the President here through the President. It's one of the things that the expert committee, our committee on fair pensions, is working with. And it's not that I'm making excuses, and I don't want to reveal my preference for further development of the third pillar. I, of course - what I said is true, I will not only communicate it forward, but the Committee on Fair Pensions always works in such a way that it offers a variety of possible scenarios for each problem. So far, there have been at least nine. These go across the political spectrum, and the Commission then discusses all specific scenarios and selects and narrows it down to the porfolio for selection. So, I think, quite honestly and well discussed, we have managed to choose a solution for the lower pensions of women compared to men. And we will also follow the same procedure, or through these scenarios we will also proceed in the third pillar. I'm just not going to publicly indicate which scenario is preferred. As far as the ceiling on retirement age is concerned, you know that The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has a new duty every five years to report to the Government on demographic developments in the population and its effects on possible movement and the impact of the retirement age. This report will be submitted for the first time by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the Government in June of this year. So here, in the coming months, in the coming weeks, we can expect a rather intense debate on this matter. I hope I haven't forgotten anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u11	Now, I have an application from Mr. Jan Bauer. So, Mr. Ambassador... [[Member Stanjura has made a point of fact.]] So, de facto, please. So, Mr Stanjura. Anyway, at this point, only your colleague is in front of you. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u12	I really wanted to respond to what the secretary said. [[An incomprehensible section of about three words.]] I didn't say anything like that, and you're resisting it, saying it's an absurd attitude. I just wanted to say that this is one of the things that should be considered in these debates, nothing more, nothing less. On the other hand, when we came up with a concrete solution, both to increase pensions mainly for women and to reject our amendment tabled by Mr Bauer. Women who have been retired for more than 25 years may have had a pension higher than CZK 1 000 a month from 1 January 2019. The Minister refused, her political party refused, her coalition refused, and now she's meeting wisely on the committee and wondering how to help these women. They could have had a thousand crowns in their retirement for the fourth month. That's what I call hypocrisy. Maybe it wasn't entirely systemic, but it would solve the problem of those who - and because we had those numbers and we had those numbers from MPSV, they were almost just women who were 25 years old and retired, they could have had the pension raised from January 1, 2019, and you, Madam Secretary, rejected it. You and your coalition. I don't understand why. Not badly set. It was well set. You just didn't want to give it up. That's all. The Senate recommended it, so we voted on it twice. We've been debating this for a long time, we've been rationalizing it, so no one can say they didn't know he hadn't noticed. The concrete solution could have been on the table for four months and we could have discussed how to modify, modify, improve, expand, narrow it down. But those ladies would have had their pension from January 1st just a thousand crowns a month. It's not because of you, and now you still have a mouthful of righteous pensions. What is fair if these retired people who lived their active lives in communism didn't stand a chance, didn't have a chance to earn a higher pension? And you turned it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u13	So, I've got Mr. Jan Bauer's de facto reporter here now, so you, uh, said it for you, okay? Let's go, because even Mr Bauer was on the verdict. I take it you agreed within the club, so he preferred you, Mr President. So please, so your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only confirm the words of the previous speaker. Yes, you have come up with the fact that you will add a thousand crowns to all those over the age of 80, Madam Secretary through Mr President. On the logical question of how you came up with this social group, because I don't see the difference between whether there are eighty or seventy-five years in terms of drawing some benefits or some services, we haven't found the only reasonable reason why it's eighty or more, and that's why we came up with an option that had two options: firstly, pensioners who have retired for more than 25 years or 20 years. This proposal was - among other things, the voices of social democracy, even though I heard voices that it was a good proposal, and if there was no coalition treaty, you would have supported it - it was rejected by your votes. However, I am aware that this written interpelation is primarily about the third pillar, so I can only confirm as a member of the pension committee that we are really to deal with this next meeting of the Fair Pensions Commission, as the Minister said, the third pillar, but there was also talk of the overall impression of the pension committee, or better of the Fair Pensions Commission, that it is a good platform. I've been involved in three of these negotiations so far, and I don't want to anticipate ahead of time. I hope the situation stabilizes. But I don't think it's a well-chosen model at all - 44 members. We, Madam Secretary, are both witnesses. This discussion is very difficult. I would call it a firework of various ideas and admit that as each of us goes to the press to interpret what we talked about after the retirement commission, so when I compare my personal feelings, but the feeling of many other members, and it's good to talk to them really behind the scenes, how we feel about it, so sometimes I'm surprised by your positive feelings about the pension board. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u15	Okay, time. Now, Minister Maláčová. Please, you have the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u16	Thank you. Very briefly, with regard to the first remark made by President Stanjura through Mr President, I think, and I think I communicated it clearly enough in the summer of last year - the intention to increase pensions for those who are 25 years retired is godly and I agree with him. Unfortunately, it was very badly written, it was technically mismanaged. And I have already announced several times that the apparatus of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is available for such complex questions by Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, because the proposal, if I remember correctly, worked with the concept 25 years after the first retirement pension payment, the repayment of the old-age pension, and there is no such thing in the Czech Social Security Administration system. And it would mean that the employees of the Czech Social Security Administration would go to archives, pull out several hundred thousand folders and start manually entering them into our information system. So if we were to work with the terms that exist in our system, I think the debate would be different. [[9.50 hours]] As far as Mr Bauer's comment is concerned, through Mr President, I have already said this to the media on Friday that I am very concerned that some Members are working very well within the expert committee, taking part in the debate, I think that we have managed to achieve concrete results during the third session, and then they will come out, stand before the media and begin to comment that the committee is not working. Unfortunately, that's how it is, and I've come to terms with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u17	Now, Mr Bauer, please, for the general debate. So you have time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u18	Just two brief comments on the esteemed minister. Firstly, a distinction must be made between the parliamentary proposal tabled by the Civic Democratic Party MP and the Senate proposal. Some of the things you were talking about were fixed there. So it's just fair to say real and true things about the microphone, because that Senate proposal that went back to raising pensions was fixed and it's not exactly what you said here. It is also not true that I would ever say that the pension committee does not work. I just said that I feel that the format you chose isn't entirely optimal. And the discussion shows this, but also from the views of many members of the pension board, because 44 people are having a very difficult time. And I repeat, so far I have a feeling it's more of a discussion and a firework of ideas that might have happened if it had happened. You also need to note the views of some members of the pension board that, since it is such a good platform, it would be good for some proposals to be there - for example, to increase pensions, without questioning raising pensions - to get into that pension board, so that they can express themselves seriously. The last thing, and maybe that's a question for the secretary. I've said it here before or before last week: On the front page of your programming statement, it says you want retirement reform. It's, uh, the word "mega" is popular today, so it's just the megapriority of your coalition government. And I would like to ask, since this is the priority of all priorities, we want pension reform, if this committee on fair pensions, and I have a feeling about it, the Commission is more of a Czech Social Democratic Party with invited experts - I would understand that. Or if it's a government retirement commission with invited experts who, according to the programme statement, actually want to address pension reform. The last thing, the work in the committee as well, I feel that even in agreement with some members for the Czech Social Democratic Party, but with some members for the ANO movement today, the President of the Pension Commission will leave our work topic to develop through the staff of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the matter of signing, and to sign both tax and social insurance. So I'm just making it clear in advance that we will come forward with this initiative, even in agreement with the President of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u19	Now, on the point of fact, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, and then on to the general debate, President Michálek. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u20	A factual comment to the existing pension board. I think that in less than three quarters of a year, perhaps half a year, when this pension committee is actively working, I think that from a public space point of view, we have by far the most information we have ever had in the field of pension issues in the last 15 years. Regarding the activity of the current Minister Maláčová, i.e. personal activities that he personally participates in the negotiations, personally comments on the positions, personally formulates them, here is also a big news. I make a statement, regardless of previous coalition arrangements or opposition arrangements in the past 15 years. And I would just like to say that the current pension system, by all means, its sustainability and the issue of demographic development, was not a mere second pillar. He wasn't self-savability. We needed deeper intervention. The interventions that arose during the time of right-wing governments under the leadership of the ODS concerned so-called small, in my opinion, failed pension reforms and unfinished large pension reforms. Unfinished. So I would like us to return to a substantive debate, and not only on the board of the pension committee, but also here we are trying to cope with demographic developments, which, of course, is irreversible. And one final point. Any changes that we agree on across political parties, and we have to agree on them across political parties, must be financed by the state budget. You know, my fellow Members, through the President, that at this point in time, the government must deal with paying debts towards existing pensioners in terms of their pensions. We are looking for coverage of an increase of another CZK 900 from 1 January and it is clear that any outputs, even if they are factually correct, must go hand in hand with the state budget and with the medium-term outlook for the budget. That's why I don't see any mistakes in the procedure of the Labour Secretary and the Labour Ministry, and I think they're gonna give me the benefit of the doubt for the next few months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u21	Thank you. Now I'm gonna ask for a little patience. President Stanjura, then General President Michálek. 'Cause I got apologies here, and I thought the debate would be shorter, so I have to read them now. Mr Dominik Feri apologises from 9 to 11 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Jiří Běhounek apologises from 13 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. Mrs Ivana Nevludová apologises today from 9.00 to 11.30 for health reasons, President Radek Vondráček apologises from 11 to 13 hours for work reasons. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes from 9:00 to 10:30 for personal reasons. Mr. Jan Hrnčíř apologizes 9. 5 to 10. 5. due to foreign travel. And Mr František Kopřiva apologizes for the whole day for working reasons. And now President Zbyněk Stanjura and President Michálek in general are still waiting for Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u22	Thank you for the floor, I will respond to Mrs Valachová's speech. I'll start from the end. I agree that these changes must be financed by the state. That is why we are talking about setting up a strategic reserve fund. You're going the other way. You scattered the money that was in the National Property Fund, you were already involved in 18 billion in March of this year and done. The money was mine. intended before the amendment of the law or for use in the pension scheme, where appropriate. First of all. So you're saying we need money, but at the same time you don't make those strategic reserves. On the contrary, you have already included those that were in the budget in the first quarter of this year. We never claimed to be self-savable about the second pillar, but it was a small step. As for the small pension reform, and I think that Mrs Valachová knows it very well, that was the reaction to the Constitutional Court's decision! When did the Constitutional Court actually oblige us to accept such reform? And I'll just remind you - the Constitutional Court decided that the system was too solidarity and little merit. And all we did was implement the Constitutional Court's decision. We may like it, we may not like it, but that's the way it is! If the Constitutional Court decides such a thing, then at that time the government majority has a duty to do so. Then I don't know what you're criticizing us for. That was simply the decision of the Constitutional Court that we responded to, and since then the Constitutional Court has simply not had those reservations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u23	Now I have one more point of fact. Mrs Kateřina Valachová, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u24	It is already so, through the President, that Stanjura and I are commemorators of what happened or did not happen. I know, of course, that the question of small pension reform was a response to the Constitutional Court's finding, which called on the legislature to balance the principle of solidarity and to find a balance with the principle of merit. I am merely saying, and it is not only my political opinion, but above all my professional opinion, that the balance of solidarity and merit - which the Constitutional Court no longer judges, certainly not in terms of constitutionality - has not been found correctly. And this led exactly to the fact that the differences between the so-called Old-timers and novices, which, by the way, caused not only the search, balancing the principle of merit and solidarity, but in particular the intervention in the valorisation mechanism during the time when the ODS ruled. An intervention in the Valorisation Mechanism, which, on the contrary, two years ago was corrected by the coalition government of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement. Therefore, our pensioners in the coming years need not fear whether or not the government will exchange, change, turn left, right, and finally be sure again from the law that we will respond to the amount of pensions in terms of valorisation. At this point, this government must in particular pay off debts that have been chopped up over the past 15 years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u25	Now I have a factual point, so Mr Ferjenčík and then Mr Michálek and Mr Kalousek have a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond very briefly to my colleague Valachová. I must point out that, unfortunately, this government is cutting debts, although we have a very long period of economic growth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u27	Now another point of fact - Mrs Valachová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u28	We pay our debts and unfortunately it is not through huge debts, which have been cut especially towards families with children and seniors, enough. It is a disgrace to previous governments, and this government is dealing with it with honor. As far as debts are concerned, I would just like to point out that all previous budgets in the last three years have ended in balance or with the surplus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u29	Good morning, honourable Members. We have drawn up factual points and we can continue the debate. Mr. Chairman of the Pirates Club, Jakub Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I see that the debate is very excited and emotional. I'd like to get back to the race, to the pension reform, to what President Stanjura has started talking about. Of course, we supported the increase in pensions. I think that, in fact, historically, access to pensioners was not entirely fair, but at the same time, we must also discuss how the system will work in the long term. We have forecasts here, we have the Budgetary Responsibility Council, and we have information here that in 20, 30 years, the system will simply work with a deficit of 200 billion. Crowns. And that's the whole problem with the so-called pension reform. Of course, the fact that someone wants to compare pensions between different categories - women, men, depending on the length of work and so on - is godly, but at the same time we have to deal with the B, which means how we will finance it for the long term. And that's the crucial question that we wanted to hear the answer from the secretary, because there's no birthing boom going on here. Our generation will not begin to reproduce just because social democracy wants to raise money in some way to pay pensions. There'd have to be some really, really, really motivational measures here. We have a situation here that in 20 to 30 years it will be 200 billion. Crowns a year, which will have to be taken somewhere. So logically, if we're building the state here at 40, 100 years in advance, we have to count on this and we have to build on the existing forecasts. I'd like to ask you a simple question about the secretary. How much money will it have to borrow on bonds to cover the deficit? And I think it's going to be over a trillion crowns. It would be good if you could step out here and introduce us to the way it's financed, the pension reform. And when I talk about pension reform, I really don't mean that you come up with other groups that you're going to spend more money on, but how you're going to deal with the demographic tooth that we have, and which will lead to a substantial increase in the number of seniors who receive pensions, and a significant reduction in the number of people who are going to be economically active and contribute to pensions. And that, of course, is when it is unpopular to answer that question. But I think there's a way out here. This is the starting point in the approved government 2020 to 2030 strategy, which is called intergenerational solidarity. This means that if we have a social problem that has historically arisen by changing proportions of economically active and inactive people, then all generations should participate equally in solving this problem. This means that we should not simply indebt the young generation and threaten the pensions of future people who are now 40 or 50 years old, who, if the system continues to run, will not receive the pensions or receive them at a substantially reduced rate. We should say responsibly how this will be dealt with and how much that generation will contribute to it. That means people who aren't even born today will have to contribute by partially increasing their debt. People who are studying today will have to contribute by increasing the tax burden. People who retire will have to participate in this in other ways, for example by setting up a mechanism to really take into account the increasing life expectancy and so on. This is a key consideration where it should be explained from what money, from which sources the demographic tooth will be financed, and we have not heard that from the secretary here yet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister Michálek. I'm picking up the secretary's application. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek and then Minister Maláčová. Before I give the floor to Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mrs Jana Pastuchová cancels her apology from today's meeting, she is already present. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u32	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond quite briefly to Mrs Valachová's speech, which said that since we approved the valorisation formula, our pensioners can be sure. I would like to clarify that our pensioners 80+ can be sure. They can really count on the fact that before the system gets into major trouble, they can be sure of that. Then the certainty goes down with the lower age that we have at the moment. My generation - I'm going to be 60 next year - is quite severely threatened. And the generation of Minister Maláčová and Minister Valachová is in grave danger. Of course, we can discuss the degree of merit and the degree of solidarity. From my point of view, the system is too egalitarian nowadays, but I understand that some people may find it a little unsympathetic. However, if nothing happens to the system at all, as time will go after 2030, as you, dear government parties, have in your government documents, so the pension will be getting closer and closer to a single dose, then a single slum dose, and then it won't be on it. It's not an ideology, it's not a haunting, it's a simple number where we're good with a three-member. I was on the budget committee when we were discussing the valuation of pensions for next year, asking a polite question as to how the petitioner imagined further funding after 2020, because the financing of pensions could not be desperate to scrape out the bowls, as we will pay next year, but some clear concept of how we will make it sustainable for the next 30 to 40 years. I understand that while the government has been promising this for five years, it is still unable to put some meaningful sustainable systemic change on the table, even if it promised it. He doesn't have the political courage to do it, or he doesn't have the competence to do it, I'm afraid he doesn't have the both. Nevertheless, I would like to hear from the petitioner, if not now, as the Committee on Budgets, as he imagines, whether there will be fundamental parametric changes. Because we know that a major deterioration in the forecast has been due to a 65-year-old pension. So whether he thinks it's unsustainable, and he thinks that he's going to take 65 years off and set up some kind of automaton back there, or whether he's imagining that there's going to be some kind of massive involvement in his retirement account with other income than that tied to a job, which still happens when the pension is in deficit, but we should know at the expense of what, because then the money is missing somewhere else. Or whether it really imagines gradual reduction of pensions, these are imaginary parametric changes. [[10.10 hours]] Every politician would love to say that we will pay as little as possible, take as much as we can, and retire as soon as possible. But these are three goals where at least one must be sacrificed parametrically if we want it to be sustainable. And if we are not able to do this only by parametric changes, and I believe that we are not, then in that case there must be a change in the system. And here I dare say that only in the ongoing pillar cannot a reasonable agreed balance be maintained: solidarity - merit. When time goes by and they grow stronger pension years, the merit always goes away for the sake of solidarity. It can't happen any other way. Even in right-wing governments, those governments would have been pushed to do so. That's what happens. It seems so unfair to me. And it seems so unfair to me, for example, the generation of Minister Maláčová. I might not care by then. But it's unfair. It's unsustainable. And it's incredibly irresponsible of the government. You said you were fixing our mistakes. The only way you fixed our mistakes in quotes was that whatever we tried to do in compulsory insurance, whether it was sick, health or social, you canceled and you put it back in that unsustainable model. And now you smile nicely and say it's sustainable. No, it's not, co-workers. Everyone knows that. You even know it, you're just lying to the public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u33	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Madam Secretary will wait a little while longer, because her party colleague beat her to a point of fact. Mrs Valachová's point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u34	When I was talking about the volatility of the valorisation mechanism, I therefore spoke about this also in terms of the responsibility of previous governments, that this, according to my expert court, caused precisely the volatility and balance of the principle of solidarity and the principle of merit, as a result of a small pension reform. If I have spoken of the fact that it is a good thing that we have re-established the valorisation mechanism in the last coalition and that pensioners can rely on it, I insist. And, of course, I am thinking, in particular, of those pensioners who are currently receiving a pension. With regard to all other subjects presented to the House by President Miroslav Kalousek as a solution to the sustainability of the future pension system, I agree with them. That's why we also have a pension committee, and that's why we're talking about it. We're in agreement there. And, of course, the last time I have to respond through the President is that potential future pensioners Miroslav Kalousek feels threatened. As a servant younger, I offer to help him that I will certainly not let him work actively at that time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. This raised Mr Kalousek's factual point. I'll ask the House for peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u36	I don't feel threatened existentially. I feel threatened with the responsibility of our political generation, because when I'm the old man over the grave and our children about your age, my colleague, or our grandchildren will ask us how we could let them beg by eating through everything, I won't be able to answer them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A real comment from my colleague Pavel Plzák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u38	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, it has been said here, and it is true that pension years will grow. But when forecasting, and I am no pension expert, the fact has been taken into account that maybe many people who come into retirement age will not be entitled to a pension at all, or that they will only be entitled to a minimum pension, because many people who privatize their business in a small privatisation have done, or have not paid at all, or have paid only minimum contributions. I can give you an example from around me. The hairdresser, who retired two years ago, had a pension of CZK 4,500, which corresponds to what she had done in that system since the 1990s. And I wonder, then, if we have fair pensions, how are we going to stand up to these people, if the Minister could answer that question as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u39	Thank you. Now one more factual remark from Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Before he comes to the speaker's desk and before the House calms down, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, namely Mr Jelínek from 11.30 to 13.00, Mr Lubomír Volný from 11 to 15.00 and from 11.45 to 14.00 by Mrs Karla Maříková. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u40	In the forecasts, the structure of the amount of pensions is taken into account with regard to compulsory contributions, through Mr President. However, the appearance of a doctor on the government side inspired me to make one more comment. These problems are two, they are complementary, they are in both compulsory insurance, both in social and health insurance. So far, colleagues, you're acting as if you're counting on excellent and affordable health care to begin to fall in the quality of health care in such a way that it's reflected favorably in your pension account. That's your policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now, with priority rights, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová will speak. I will ask my colleagues to disband the crowds in the House and to discuss any other subject, even if it is written interpelation, in principle, in the foyer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I have a few notes here. I think the first thing we should do is stop scaring our citizens, that they won't be on pensions. I think we can agree that he will always have to be on pensions because it is one of the basic functions of the state to take care of those who have spent their entire lives taking care of our system. Instead, let us lead, and I call for a long-term, substantive discussion on how to adapt our pension system to the challenges that await it in the coming years. This is related to the concept of pension reform. We have him in the government's programming statement. I do not like to use the concept of pension reform because I think it is empty, because simply the actions of right-wing governments, when in the past to force, to close, without discussion with the opposition, without any dialogue have pushed through the things that the next government has immediately abolished, so this concept of pension reform is simply because of these concrete steps, I think politically harmful, has been pro-fanized. Therefore, I prefer the term pension adaptation and I think that a set of parametric changes to individual steps can lead us to the same result, which means preparing our system for the challenges of the future. That's why the fair pensions commission, which works for three months, started with lower women's pennies. I think we're looking at some solutions supported across the political spectrum. The next meeting of 24 May will focus on the things contained in the government's programming declaration, which means an earlier retirement of physically demanding professions. You know that people who work very hard can't leave like people who don't work physically hard. We have the efficiency of the third pillar. At the beginning of this written interpelation we agreed that the third pillar did not fulfil its function. And we have agreed that once we move on in these areas, we will start to address the issue of the most important and fundamental - the financial sustainability of our pension system. And that is where, among other things, the issue of the CFI falls. What will happen to our pension system if, in the coming years and decades, the cohorts that have been self-employed throughout their entire careers start to leave in bulk and then carry the minimum into our system and are likely to burden the supply system. So we have the concept. Let's not scare the population that it won't be for pensions, and let's talk more about pension adaptation, not reform, but I'm ready to be unbearable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u43	Thank you, Minister. One more factual remark from Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Before that, I will read the apology of Minister Marie Benešová from 10.15 to 14.30 for work reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u44	Well, that's what we learned. I will read to you, Madam Secretary, if you will, at least four sentences from the Czech Government's programming statement, that is, from this government's agenda for this parliamentary term, from which they have already escaped for two years and where you promised what you would do. And the priorities in point 1 say: we want pension reform, we want concrete steps without lengthy and barren discussions. The essence will be the separation of the pension account from the state budget and the establishment of clear relations between this account and the state budget. So I think that in itself is nonsense that there is no pension reform, but I also did not give the government any confidence. The government promised to do this. Okay, let's not have a debate, you're writing here that you want reform, and you're saying that you don't want it, that you want adaptation, so let's not talk about it, so please answer us, but at least answer as a responsible minister whether the government's programming statement is binding on you and whether the reform you want to say adaptation - the only concrete thing that says that you're going to separate the pension account from the state budget! [[raised voice]] So I want to ask you when you want to do this, if you promise to do it in this parliamentary term, as you yourself write here, without lengthy and barren discussions. Madam Secretary, when will the retirement account be proposed from the state budget? I'm stressing that I'm against it because I think it's stupid! However, it is the promise of this government to this House and to the public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Bělobrádek's point of fact is now still being made and Mr Ferjenčík is reporting for the debate. You have the floor, Congressman, to the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I think it is important to address the cause above all, of course the result can be solved parametrically, and that is why we have a natural increase in the population. I think it is necessary to really support those who want to have children, and those who can have children, or adopt them, raise them, and also go to work, that is, they pay dues. These people are still being punished by this system we have. The increase in birth rate has been successful in recent years and corresponds with the fact that KDU-ČSL in government has enforced tax discounts that have increased. Just so that those who take care of children have a higher cost of raising such children than those who do not have them so that they are not punished for it. So the money stays at home, so the state doesn't take it away from them, and then give it back a little bit, and part of it gets lost again. So let's support really working parents by having tax discounts, tax bonuses, and in this way we'll help make more payers, who are very likely to go back to work when they see it at home and pay taxes. So it can be done. The increase in birth rate in the Czech Republic is and corresponds with the greater support of the family. But it's still not enough. And it also applies to the pension system, which means that even mothers, when they have children, have lower pensions, and that's the thing we need to get rid of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u47	I thank Mr Bělobrádek for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Miroslav Kalousek's point of order is now in effect, and a colleague, Mr Ferjenčík, is duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u48	I do not want to extend the debate too much, but I would like to point out in all politely that the equation put forward by President Bělobrádek can only apply 100% in a wired country where 100% of the work obligation applies. In a free world where I can't be sure if I'm raising a payer into a home system because he can work anywhere else, or I can't be sure if I'm raising a payer at all, this equation doesn't work so 100%. I'm not saying this because I'm against it, just so we don't rely on it as a self-savvy solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Bělobrádek, also one more factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u50	Thank you for the floor. I also didn't say it was self-saving, but it needs to be encouraged, because it obviously works. In recent years, the increase is not enough, but it is. And I was also talking about parametric changes. I'm sure that's true, too. We proposed pension reform already in 2011, we updated in 2017. I think that it has its logic and that it is an appropriate combination not only of the system parametric changes, but also linked to the overall support of families with children. Of course, there is never any certainty, but we are talking about some solution that brings concrete results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u51	I thank Mr Bělobrádek for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Ferjenčík is now registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond to my colleague Valachová about the deficit. The problem is that the government's capital expenditure in 2017 is about to be discussed by the government's final account, down to 6.4 percent of the budget. So saying you have a balanced budget, when it's just because you didn't make investments, it's not correct. Unrealized investments are also debt. That's infrastructure debt, that's money we're gonna have to invest over time to build or fix these roads. So that's where I see the great kind of government, and it's a big deficit for this country's economic development. The second issue on the subject of pension reform that we are talking about. I agree with Minister Maláčová that this ongoing system must be maintained. And it's the only pension system that can't be stolen, which is its major advantage. It's also the only system that can't fail because money comes and goes at the same time. At the same time, the government confirms that we have some large demographic tooth at the level of about CZK 200 billion per year, which is expected in about 15-20 years. And I see a positive attempt to straighten out the existing pension system so that it is fair to women who have raised children or old-timers to other groups. However, I see a huge amount of energy invested in adding money to different groups, and very little effort to solve the problem on the income side and above all structurally. Over the last few years, we have increased the pension deficit by several tens of billion crowns each year, but there are no compensation measures on the income side. And when this economic conjucture is over, because today the pension system is funded by labor taxation, when unemployment may rise, which unfortunately threatens with a view to a worse economic situation, then it will really be very difficult to secure the financing of the pension system. And we consider it unfair that only future generations will pay for this. We think it is necessary to spread the tooth in some way between the next period of time. One final point. The cost of living of age groups is also essential for the stability of society. Today is actually the fourth pension pillar that people have, the mortgage. The fact that people of working age pay off their housing so that they can then have lower costs in retirement. And in general, the housing market is absolutely essential, which is why it is very useful for as many people to live in their own housing, because they then have lower costs in retirement, while when they are renting, they pay the same life, and especially from retirement it is very difficult to finance. So this is a path that can significantly reduce the effects of this demographic tooth, if, for example, the legislative changes and other steps that the government and Parliament can take to ensure that people can reach affordable housing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u53	Thank you, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. That was the last one entered into the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. In the debate, a motion for a resolution by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, who disagrees with the reply of Minister Jana Maláčová, was announced. Nor can any other motion for a resolution be made under the Rules of Procedure Act. I'm gonna check you all out and ask you for a new registration. The ones I asked to lead the discussion to another subject in the lobby, I'll call the gong. And once the number of applications has been settled, we will decide on Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's proposal in vote number 139, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 139 of 123 present for 52, against 30. The motion has not been accepted, it has been rejected, and that concludes the discussion of this interpelation. This has also put an end to the discussion of written consultations and we will continue the agenda with the fact that, according to the resolution cited in the 4th parliamentary term, we now also have the opportunity to read any amendments against the agenda, which is given by the fact that we have a fixed item 180 - State final account for 2017, then point 16 - pharmaceuticals and point 207 - these are the issues of unpaid enterprises in the context of privatisation and at 11 o'clock a fixed point in the quality of food and then according to the approved agenda. I first see Mr. Jan Chvojka's enrollment. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u54	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would take the liberty of reading a change in the program in the sense that I would ask for the elimination of tomorrow's item number one, which is the Senate Bill on Citizenship, not only from tomorrow's meeting, but if it doesn't come to that tomorrow, then actually from the whole meeting, and I would like to include Press 410 as item one, which is the draft Staff Act. It's point 148.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u55	Service affair, yes, I'm marked. Who else? Member Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As part of the smooth course of tomorrow's House meeting, I propose that the House press be eliminated by 205. I believe that we will not be able to discuss the more than 800 amendments tomorrow. I think we have a lot of important things to do, and it's pointless for the House to be stuck in this press. So I suggest we remove the House Press 205 from the agenda - the e-booking of sales law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u57	Okay. Who else? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u58	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. I would like to ask you to include point 23 for tomorrow after the points already included. This is the House Press 267. It is an amendment to Act No. 329/2011 Sb., on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities. It's a second reading. In my opinion, this should not be time-consuming. The amendment is submitted by representatives of several MPs, has passed fairly smoothly through the Social Policy Guarantee Committee, and I would like to ask you to include this item tomorrow after the points already included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u59	A colleague of Kaňkovský, therefore, after the points already included for tomorrow's day. Anyone else? [[No.]] In that case, I can take a vote. Just as my colleague Chvojka points out, paragraph 148, House Press 410, does not have a deadline until 9.25 hours. In order to be the first point of action, it is rather unrealistic, unless we start later. Or interrupt a point that we would be discussing. [[Ambassador Chvojka reporting.]] Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u60	I'm sorry. This is really about minutes. If I can afford to apply for a solid rating for 9.25 hours. Thank you. Apparently 9:30 a.m., then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-001-217.u61	I'll check point 146, which is the social security policy, and eliminate 148. Okay. 146, then is the record of sales. Okay. We would now vote on individual proposals. The first is the elimination of point 166 - amendment to the Act on Citizenship. We're going to decide in the 140 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 140 of the 144 present for 89, against 28. The motion was accepted. We have therefore excluded this item from the discussion of the meeting. And the second vote is paragraph 148, print 410, at 9:30, as it was listed, with paragraph 146, which is the first, remaining at 9:00. I've started voting number 141 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 141 of 146 for 125, against 2. The motion was accepted. Now, my colleague Ferjenčík's proposal to disable the press 205 and we will vote in the vote number 142, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 142 of 146 present for 58, against 81 Members. The motion was not accepted. [[10.40 hours]] My colleague Kaňkovský proposes to place the number 267 firmly after the points already firmly placed. We will decide in the vote number 143, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 143, from the presence of 147, for 144, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can therefore proceed to discuss the agenda after these changes, starting with item number
