ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u1	107. Mr Karel Rais's motion to issue a law amending the Senate's legal action No. 340/2013 Coll., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended by Act No. 254/2016 Coll. House printing 179/ - third reading At the rapporteur's table, Mr Karel Rais is the draftsman and rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Roman Onderka. Prime Minister Stanjura is claiming priority, so I'll give him the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u2	Thank you for the floor. Let me take advantage of the fact that we're among the points. I'm sorry, I'm gonna need to unlock the phone before I read it. [[It's entering a PIN into a cell phone.]] And one day, to say the kind part of the work of the President of the club is to defend his Members, if they are falsely accused, for example. When we were having a debate here on the interpretation point, my colleague, Mr Klaus, criticised Mr Vondrák's statement that another member of the ANO movement, Mr Plzák, should speak. So I'm gonna read him the incriminating statement because the tape isn't done online, we had to wait, we couldn't react right away. And Mr Vondrák said: "Please, it is part of all of us to educate ourselves for life. That means if I'm getting a new assignment, I have to learn." And now the sentence for Mr Plzák through the Vice-President. "Otherwise, please, I don't have a place in this company." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u3	Thank you. [[Other Members report to the floor.]] You can't give a word to anyone other than those who have priority rights at this moment. The Rules of Procedure are clear. Now we're dealing with point 107. Before I give my word to the plaintiff, I'll introduce you to my apologies. For the reasons of work from 14.30 today, Minister Dan Ťok, Mr Dominik Feri, apologizes from 12 a.m. to 13 a.m. and from 12 a.m. to the end of the day for the reasons of employment of Mrs Jana Levová. I ask the appellant to speak if he wishes to speak before the debate is opened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u4	Thank you. Given the time, I will be very brief because I want this bill approved in the morning. There is a statutory measure by the Senate, which has essentially adjusted the real estate acquisition tax when it was a newly built housing unit in the housing house, so this 4% tax burden was exempted. And in that legal arrangement, we forgot, or more precisely, the senát forgot, the situation where new housing units are being created in family homes. This is the substance of this proposal. So it's about extending the exemption from the first bribery acquisition in case it's an apartment unit in a family home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u5	Thank you. I note that Parliament's press 179/4, which contains amendments, was delivered to us on 13 February. The resolution of the guarantee committee is the House press 179/5. I am now opening the debate. Mr Munzar is entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps I will not surprise you that I will try to convince you before the vote to support our amendment, which cancels or reduces the real estate acquisition tax. I have already performed here both at first and second reading, yet when we come close to this crucial vote, I want to tell you and summarize our arguments and my arguments as to why we are proposing this. Because we believe that at a time when property prices are rising, the state should think about it and wisely decide how to help young people, in particular, to start families. The Prime Minister himself, I don't know where else, said that we needed to ensure the future, that more children are born to families, and that we have a greater pro-family policy. On the other hand, in the area of housing, we charge buyers four percent of the property acquisition tax. Whoever goes to buy an apartment wants to take care of his family responsible, must give the state 4 percent extra only for the fact that the apartment in the Czech Republic is going to buy. Today, many young couples, for example, are delaying family creation due to the rising price of flats, because housing is falling away from them. And in a situation of dramatic growth, we should not insist that we burden these families with another four percent. In fact, the state says to the families: For wanting to provide housing for yourself or your offspring, we will tax you this purchase. Even from the money you've already earned and taxed once. Because it is de facto a second taxation. At a time of economic growth and the current rise in real estate prices, one would expect to be so generous in this House that we will meet the citizens of our beautiful country, and we will de facto abolish the penalty for acquiring our own housing or at least partially make it easier for them. We would support civil responsibility, and it is the people who work who try to be the most independent and try to secure the future of both their own and their own children. Because what exactly is the proceeds of this tax for the state budget? If you look at the draft budget approved by this House for 2019, it is less than one percent of the revenue from the state budget. It is a tenth of the value of annual government revenue growth between 2018 and 2019 when I am talking about abolishing this tax. I think that really good national economies could manage this possible blackout in managing the state budget. For the state it is less than one percent not a high amount, it is not a fatal amount. But the four percent for individual families who are going to get their own housing can be a division between having this property or not having it. Because the state collects a fee from our citizens for buying real estate on the territory of our country. This tax does not have any other economic or other regulatory significance. And by paying the tax from 2016, whoever goes to buy the property, in my opinion, has lost all the leftovers of logic. That is why I was talking about the fact that this tax is only a punishment, a fine for wanting to buy real estate. So the reasons for not delaying it, the reasons why we are proposing the cancellation are as follows. This is clearly double taxation. The builder has already paid VAT, the buyer has paid income tax, so the tax is collected from once taxed money. By the way, supporters of this tax often counter-argument of VAT. But what value added to the economy is that a private person buys property from another private person? Because new buildings are exempt, this is also covered by Mr Rais's proposal. So there is no added value for the state, it is not taxing added value, it is really taxation only the right to acquire own property. In the whole Republic, not only in the territory of Prague and Central Bohemia, but in the whole territory of the Czech Republic the price of real estate is rising rapidly. So the four percent of the three-million-dollar apartment today is CZK 120,000. In addition to the CZK 120,000 that the young family has to save, and if it's saved, it could use the state for household equipment, for other living supplies, for the reconstruction of the apartment, so the CZK 120,000 from the CZK 3 million apartment. In addition, such a young family today has to save another 20 to 25 percent of the property price at least if it wants to buy a mortgage, respectively. To buy a mortgage property. I said about the impact on the state budget, it's really not fatal. For the state the minimum amount, but for the responsible person who is trying to secure his own roof over his head, it is unnecessary spending. In addition, I would like to point out that there is a really great inequality before the law to which ordinary citizens pay. Because today there's a way to avoid paying the real estate tax, and that's if an entrepreneur, let's say some big player, puts this property in the company and sells the company, transfers the property of the company and doesn't transfer the property as such. All trends in the state are regulation on the side of housing demand. The CNB tightens mortgages, the state regulates the demand for housing by this tax. However, the need for housing does not decrease by regulating demand. The problem is on the supply side, so this tax really has no economic and regulatory value for the economy of our state. The current situation leads to people who want to purchase their own property, given the prices and less availability of housing and less availability of mortgages at the same time, looking for rental apartments. And there's the same problem - lack of apartments. So the rents will grow significantly. And instead of young people - and we wanted young people to invest in their own housing, they will have to pay more and more for borrowing foreign property and will be narrowing down space in their financial lives to save on mortgages and possibly this tax. They don't invest in strangers when they buy an apartment. They're investing in theirs. And when it's hardest for them financially, they can sell this property. So we should support citizens' own efforts to take responsibility for their own housing. We think it's the right thing to do. Therefore, before the vote for the last time, I ask you, fellow Members, to support the best abolition of the property acquisition tax, or at least the percentage reduction that we propose in some variant, to make especially young people, but to all who want to get their own housing, to make their lives a little easier for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual point, Mr Vondrák is registered. No, it's just a point of fact from the past. So it is Mr Martínek's turn in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, as the pirát, we agree with the bill, but I would just like to draw your attention briefly to some amendments that can make it even better. My Amendment B number of House Document 2022 (1) and (2) concerns the introduction of a reduced rate of real estate acquisition tax for natural persons who do not own another real estate intended for housing. I have already presented the advantages of this amendment in detail earlier. I pre-advise that I will request a change of procedure so that this amendment is voted as a whole. However, I would like to turn your attention first of all to the very simple Amendment B number 2062, which would certainly deserve your support. This proposal merely extends the payment of the real estate acquisition tax by three months. This gives more time to buyers who have been new since 2016 payers of this tax instead of sellers, so that they have more time to obtain this relatively high sum for payment of this tax after they have often used most of their life savings already to purchase the property itself. The proposal thus goes to all citizens of the Czech Republic who intend to purchase their own property and at the same time to a state where the number of dues from ordinary taxpayers is likely to fall. The state doesn't lose any funds, only slightly shifts cash flow. I ask you once again to support Amendment B number 2062. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u9	Thank you. It is Mr Skopeček who is next in the debate. Mr. Juránek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u10	Thank you very much. Of course, I support the amendment presented here by colleague Munzar, which consists of abolishing the real estate acquisition tax for several reasons. The main reason for this is the situation on the housing market. You know, because of the lack of construction, I would say, up to the construction crisis, property prices have been so high in recent years that for a number of people, I think, even for the middle class, it is almost impossible to get to new housing. Of course, this is more about Prague and regional cities than the countryside, but especially in Prague and larger regional cities, the situation is truly unsustainable. In Prague, mostly today, apartments are bought by those who already have apartments and others buy for investment because they have money for it. No offense. I think that this is their own choice, that this is a reasonable way of investing money, but in my opinion, we must not turn a blind eye to the fact that there is also an income layer that really needs, for example, the first place to live, the first place to start, if we talk about young couples. I don't think the crisis will solve the abolition of property acquisition tax. The road is, of course, more complicated. In my view, it is necessary to significantly liberalise the building procedures and territorial legislation. However, it seems immoral to me when the state has seen the way in which the price level of housing is moving for several years, to make it even more difficult and expensive for people to acquire their own housing, which, moreover, and my colleague Munzar has already said so, is not crucial in terms of state tax revenues, and at the moment when the State would lose its tax revenue, we will certainly agree, I hope, with the Minister, that the state budget would not collapse. I think that in the situation in which the housing market is, the government should be the first entity, or the first to come to the Chamber of Deputies and say: we are working very hard to liberalise the building process, we are working very hard to liberalise the planning of the area, so that the construction will start again and the offer of new flats will meet the high demand that is driving real estate prices up today. Because it's not happening, so we came up with it. I would also like to draw attention to my amendment. If you, my fellow Members, do not consider it appropriate to abolish the property acquisition tax as such for all taxpayers, I propose an amendment to point C, where the exemption from the property acquisition tax would apply at least to those who buy real estate intended for housing - and I want to underline this, only to housing that buys it for the first time in their own lives. In other words, it is an effort to support young families, young couples who buy their first housing, the first starting apartment, so that in their difficult situation, when today they must be very enormously indebted due to high prices, at least the few percent that the state is still burdening them, we will relieve them of the purchase and at least make their life and financial situation easier when buying the first apartment. I think that's a very reasonable suggestion. I think that this is a proposal that the government Members are able to support, because there the state budget revenue gap is even more miniature than if we were to abolish the property acquisition tax itself. And believe that the few percent will be a strong support to young families, young couples who are facing a crazy situation today when they need to get their first place. So if our initial proposal, for which I of course hoist and consider it systemical, does not pass, please support at least to relieve young families and young couples. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u11	Thank you. Mr Juránek in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u12	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say here that housing issues are currently becoming increasingly difficult and increasingly difficult for the young generation. This matter has been dealt with for a long time. I want to say here that, of course, there is not only the rest of the government, but there is also the rest of many municipalities and cities that, within their respective competences, were to supervise how housing is to be dealt with. Of course, the amendment to the construction law is a very important part at the moment, and certainly more important than the material we have here, which allows us to improve the housing situation in the Czech Republic. The issue of improvement is perhaps all the amendments that are here. So for the KDU-ČSL club, I say that whether these are the amendments tabled by Mr Vojtěch Munzar, or whether they are the amendments proposed by Mr Tomáš Martínek, the amendments proposed by Mr Jan Skopeček are proposals that will improve the situation and the position of all those who want to improve their housing. We, as KDU-ČSL, have housing as a pretty crucial issue, we consider it one of the most important elements of the family. I would like to say that I once, as mayor of the city district, have embarked on a construction in which we are in cooperation with the city of Brno, because the part of the city itself cannot manage it, created housing at different levels, whether it was rental housing or housing owned or cooperative housing. [[The noise in the hall is always huge. Very poor hearing!]] We have done very well in this matter. I'm begging you to arrange silence, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u13	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. You're right. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u14	However, this matter is already in the situation that we need to find the right way to help where we can. This means that within the KDU-ČSL we are ready to support every proposal that improves the housing situation. On that occasion, I would like to ask you, therefore, to consider the improvement and vote as much as possible in favour of the amendments, because they will bring us a little further in support of housing. Living as such is limited to whether or not these families exist. As it turns out, more than half of the marriages that are divorcing in five years are stating the very issue of housing as a reason. So if we want to have a healthy society, where there will be room for young families to help this republic by starting a family, then one of the important things is to help with housing. This is just one of the others, because we also need to deal with the housing development fund, and that the housing development fund should be focused precisely on issues that are currently lacking in the particular financial housing market. [[13.00 hours]] Again, housing issues have already been tried in some places in the Czech Republic, and I would like to say that when we choose a suitable policy, there will also be a change in housing prices, and it is quite important that we look for all the ways to do so. Therefore, I would like to reiterate that all the amendments that are here, whether this is the amendment by Mr Munzar or by Mr Martínek, or also by Mr Skopeček, that all these proposals deserve your attention and, with good thought, support. I think that this issue, which is on the table at the moment, allows us to improve the situation of families in the Czech Republic, especially young people looking for their housing, and especially those looking for their first housing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u15	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one's volunteering for the debate. I'm done with the conversation. And since it is 1:00 p.m., I am interrupting this item and ending the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Members of the Organizing Committee, I would like to inform you that the Organising Committee will meet at 13.05.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-009-107.u16	Have a good afternoon. Initiating the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. First, I'll read the apologies I have here. For reasons of foreign travel, he apologizes from the House meeting on 6. 3. Mrs Lenka Dražilová, from 16 o'clock until the end of the sitting day, apologizes further 7. 3. all day and 8. 3. all day - here are family reasons. Furthermore, I have here an explanation of the apology of Minister Antonín Staněk from today's meeting, since 11.45 - the reason for this is a foreign business trip. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
