ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended /German press 490/ - second reading I believe it has been opened today as well. Please let Minister Maláčová and Mrs Pastuchová take the seats at the rapporteur's table. Madam Secretary Maláčová, do I believe she has already spoken at the outset? [[Yes.]] So did Mrs Pastuchová? [[Yes.]] So, in that case, we are in a general debate, I remember that now, and Mr Bauer is the first to be logged into it. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u2	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly say a few sentences to the amendment that Mrs Lucie Šafránková and I have put into the system under No. 3313. I would like to say that I consider it unfair and morally indefensible that the increase in parental allowance should only apply to parents who have not yet fully completed parental allowance and not to those who have exhausted it, but also to raise a child under the age of four, who is also the youngest child in the family, and still meet the basic condition of the law for granting parental allowance. In my view, such an approach is problematic from the point of view of constitutional law, namely from the point of view of the constitutional prohibition of discrimination and from the point of view of the constitutional prohibition of retroactivity. So that's for the government proposal. And on this amendment, which you have under the number that I have said, there are also a few sentences. This amendment admits an increase in parental contribution to parents who still meet the basic conditions for entitlement to parental allowance pursuant to § 30 para. This is a proper and day-to-day care for a child who is the youngest in the family and has not reached four years of age, but has exhausted the parental contribution at its original level before the effectiveness of the law which increases it. The proposal, however, does not concern parents who do not care for a child under the age of four and who are not the youngest child in the family all day long. So much for this amendment. And of course, I will join him in a detailed debate, together with my colleague Lucie Šafránková. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u3	Thank you, too. Next, please, Mrs Pekarová, Mrs Golasowská will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already said many of us here about the parental contribution, and we have already discussed it very closely at first reading, so I will very briefly comment on what amendment I am proposing together with Mr Vít Kaňkovský. This is an effort to extend even more flexibility for families with children, who often need to solve the problem of not being sufficiently accessible to childcare services, and yet many mothers and fathers would like to return to work even before usual, let's say, in the most common form. That is why we would like to suggest that a family member can benefit more easily from the parental allowance, which is the best thing for us to think of as a child's grandparent. The form of assistance here in this case is, in particular, that we allow the grandparents who will take care of the child to have insurance premiums, because, of course, if you do not have health insurance paid, you get into a certain problem either by having to pay for it themselves, or in some case, it is also about trying to look like a person who is unemployed in front of the state and thus tricking him a little bit so that public health insurance will be paid for at all. So that's the extension of our form here. I think that, on the whole, in terms of increasing flexibility within the parental contribution system, it is good to go this way. But we must not forget, either, what is very closely linked to the care of young children, and that is the possibility of part-time jobs, which are other laws that we should certainly be dealing with here. And we have already proposed this in several parties, so we have the law here, and it is therefore also possible to simplify the situation significantly to parents. Of course, this is the availability of services for the smallest children, which is still a problem in the Czech Republic. We acknowledge that this issue will finally be dealt with within the framework of the Children's Group Act, although it is a topic that will certainly be discussed here as well. But I just want to place emphasis on the fact that until we also have these options, we still create only one option for families with children, and that is to be with the child at home often until the three or four years of age of the child, even if it is not at that moment a voluntary but forced circumstance. The greater the possibilities, whether parents decide to choose what suits them most, the better, whether it is the model that still prevails, that is, care directly by mother or father, or it is just a combination. And that's what we should be going across the street from. Our proposal goes opposite precisely by allowing grandparents to be involved, which is why I think it would be very beneficial and welcome, because for certain families it is possible to simply deal with them this way and surely there are such families today and it would make the situation very easier for them. So I beg you to support this amendment, which I will sign up to in detail in the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u5	Thank you, too. Madame Golasowská, please. Mr. Ambassador Chvojka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, KDU-ČSL obviously welcomes the increase in parental contribution, we declare this, but I nevertheless propose an amendment which actually concerns parents who have already exhausted their parental contribution, and yet their children will be under four at the time of the law's effectiveness. To us, this government proposal seems discriminatory because it actually excludes 70,000 families from entitlement to this contribution. It should be said that it is not possible to sort families according to an objective and optional criterion, which is the length of the allowance. Here I would also like to point out that, in fact, in the past, we have had a case here where an increase in parental contribution was proposed in the Act on State Social Support for parents who were caring for more children, and this change concerned everyone, even those parents who had already exhausted the parental contribution. It should also be taken into account that the legal representatives of a child who would not benefit from an increase in parental allowance have often chosen a faster draw on account of the low level of parental allowance in the event of a four-year distribution and have entered full-time work earlier in order to pay taxes and insurance to the state. That is why I am intercede for you to support this amendment at the third reading vote, which I am still going to sign up for in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u7	Thank you, too. I beg Mr Chvojka, who is now logged in. Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I would like to briefly present my amendment, which I will then formally sign up to in a detailed debate, of course. My amendment is that paragraph 3 is added to Section 30c, which reads as follows: "In the event that the parent cares for the multiples and one or more children of the multiples die, while the parent continues to care for at least one child, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs may decide, by way of derogation from the procedure laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2, to remove the hardness of the law in exceptional cases, depending on the overall social situation of the family and the length of care for the multiples.' If I am to justify this amendment, the point is that the parental allowance is a substitute for a parent's income, who cares at a time when the possibilities of his work are limited precisely by the care of a young child, and this personal care is of course desirable. The number of children born at the same time, which is being cared for, is newly projected. [[17.40 hours]] The legal regulation of the parental allowance is such that the total amount of the parental allowance is converted into the amount due in the care of one child when the twins are changed to care for one child. In doing so, amounts already paid shall be included in the total amount of parental allowance, and if they exceed 220 grand, this is not an overpayment and the parent does not have to pay back more than the amount. These may be different situations, such as one child being entrusted with the care of another person, then the upper limit for each caring person is 220 thousand. The situation of the family when a young child dies is very painfully affecting all of their members. If one of the twins dies, the total amount of the parental allowance is then CZK 220,000, with the sums already paid being deducted from it. More complicated situations over the course of four years may occur during changes in the care of triplets or multiples. In view of the sensitivity of this situation and the various effects on the family in specific cases, it is proposed to mitigate the legal regulation. The possibility of mitigation is focused on this exceptional family situation and gives the opportunity to respond to the specific situation in a particular family. The exceptionality of the situation is underlined by the fact that this power is given directly to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, which also guarantees a consistent approach. From the point of view of the impact on the state budget, this is a completely marginal impact, given that these may be individual cases covered by the Chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And just for the record, during 2017 during the first year of life, 304 children died, from the first year of life to the fourth year of life, 67 children, while data on how many such children were from multiple births are not followed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u9	I, too, thank you and, please, Mrs Richterová, Mrs Pastuchová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, it is very pleasant to speak here on a subject on which I think we all agree. That's extraordinary, we're just taking turns here on how to improve, which particular part of the parental allowance. I would also like to thank my colleagues Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Věra Kovářová, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, who have joined the pirate proposal to valorize the parental contribution. And that's probably the main thing I'd like to point out. After all, this harmony doesn't have to be repeated every year. On the contrary, it would be appropriate for us to agree on the amount to be that level for the parental contribution, and then, as prices rise as inflation goes, we have the automatic. I think parents would appreciate this predictableness very much. The design is for testing on a web calculator. It's at socialnissystem.pirati.cz/kalkulacka. It is easy to see how, at different pump speeds, with all the choices parents have today, this could in our view look very responsiblely designed valorisation. In the explanatory memorandum, everything that the Ministry objected to in the course of the consultation of the proposal is settled. I would only point out that the really big objection that the European Work-Life Balance directive will come and that we will be forced to dig up our system is odd, because all we really need to implement is 10 days of paternity leave. A bonus like that, maybe even a joke about the design. The web calculator I presented was programmed by a fellow Member František Navrkal in an hour and a half. Because the secretary was wondering about the formula behind the calculator, so I'm going to allow myself to give it an illustration of the calculator. [[He's handing over to Secretary Maláčová. - Madam Secretary's remark inaudible.]] Do I have to go to the Minister through the President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u11	Members of the government may address themselves directly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u12	I'm very glad. Anyway, I think it should be noted that formulas in laws can be difficult. The important thing is to make it simple for people. Just a very brief one. The other two amendments proposed by the pirát through me concern that, as today, the principle of the lower draw limit should be the same for those who do not have a daily basis of assessment, typically students, students, or also businessmen, self-employed people. So we propose either today's fixed limit of CZK 7,600 to replace the 30th amount, or in the second draft of CZK 10,000, which would correspond to today's possible draw rate. The main objective is to prevent people from extending their stay on parental leave over 30 months, as is possible today, despite their choice. And the last thing about something else, but what is contained in this Act on State Social Support, is that, as pirát, we do not want trade in poverty, we do not want there to be holes in the laws allowing injustice, and therefore, on the basis of how the discussion took place on the committee last week, we have yet developed a proposal concerning such a seemingly smaller circle of things, namely that when issuing a housing allowance, it is not possible to claim a permanent residence elsewhere. So it's about really being able to review local investigations by sharing a common household so that everyone who lives together in that apartment can be counted into the common income. So this is the last of our amendments recorded in the system under my name, and a further amendment will then be introduced by colleague Tomáš Martínek. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u13	Thank you, too. Before I invite another speaker, I'll introduce you to your apologies. Mr Ondráček apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the day, Mr Rais apologizes between 18 and 19 pm for reasons of work, Mr Dolínek apologizes for the rest of today's meeting for personal reasons. And now, please, Mrs Pastuchová, Mrs Šafránková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that the amendment to this law is primarily about increasing the parental contribution, and I am very happy about it, but there is an open law that can help us and can help us reduce the abuse of benefits, namely the contribution to housing. I might not have proposed this amendment today, but I decided on the basis of the fact that all members of the Social Committee, and I see that there is a majority of us, we learned on the Social Policy Committee last week on Thursday that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which, sometime in the middle of last year, handed over the materials for 15 measures against poverty and the proposal for a change in the housing contribution with the deadline for submission to the Government of March, April this year, which should actually straighten and address the abuse of these benefits, presented us with the same materials with a shift in the deadline of November to December this year. I understand that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is handling a lot of things, but in my question of why everything has moved forward, we were told that the Minister has decided to present actually something completely different and new, but none of us Members of the Social Committee, or even the Chief Hygiene, knew anything about it. [[17.50 hours]] I therefore tried to explain to everyone on the Social Committee, including the Minister, that we know about the problem of benefit abuse. It draws our attention to the terrain because I think all Members of the Social Committee are visiting the terrain, and it is time to start doing something about it. That is why I have decided to put forward, even though I know that Pandořin's box has opened up and the parental contribution is being addressed, to present this amendment, which we can send out at least a small swallow to those who pay these benefits, for example, that we want to change it, but also to those who abuse these benefits, and to show them that we know about it and we will not ignore it. Madam Secretary, and I thank her for that, she told us on the Committee on Social Policy that they knew about this problem, but that she did not want to make small changes in the form of amendments that I now propose, but one big and unified change. However, I think that even this small change can come into force before waiting for the entire legislative process that the proposed amendment will have to go through. That's why I put it in this novel. In my amendment, as my colleague Richterová also said, which - I was calling on the Committee on Social Policy, that if we do not have a deadline for the submission of these measures and changes to the contributions, I will try to propose an amendment really within the weekend. I believe that I have succeeded, and this amendment actually addresses what your colleague has said here through Richterová, when fulfilling the conditions, it is an amendment to § 24 para. 1 in that law, conditions of permanent residence. And I'll tell you why. Compliance with the permanent residence reporting conditions for entitlement to the housing allowance has been shown to be inadequate and inadequate in normal practice. Practice, and it is really from practice, points out that many applicants for a benefit of state social support, thereby making use of the housing contribution, rather in quotation marks, are taking advantage of this condition. In particular, these are situations where applicants for that non-insurable social benefit are exempt from the permanent residence of the person with the income. In my amendment, I propose that, when assessing and assessing the entitlement to the housing allowance, account be taken of the factual circle of persons jointly assessed according to actual coexistence and maintenance obligations. On the one hand, we have landlords who make provision in rental contracts that, without their express consent, the tenant cannot apply for permanent residence, but on the other hand, there are cases where the law is being circumvented by the fact that a family member, and it is usually the one who is fully economically active, is reported for permanent residence completely outside the home address of the whole family. Therefore, the existing legislation currently in force on the establishment of a circle of jointly assessed persons, which is the same as for the purpose of assessing the entitlement to the benefit or the supplement to housing from the system of benefits of assistance in material distress, will be taken over. This means that the circle of persons assessed together will be determined according to the actual coexistence of persons in the apartment and the statutory maintenance obligation. When applying for a dose by a single dependent adult, I suggest that this child will always be judged along with his parents. This adjustment responds from practice again to cases where an elderly carefree child is asking for a dose, such as a student who lives in his or her apartment or a rented apartment from his or her parents and declares that he has no deductible income or a fixed maintenance obligation for parents. In such cases, the principle of the statutory maintenance obligation between parents and children is based on the assumption that the housing costs of this dependent child are or may be borne by the parent. Furthermore, in this proposed regulation, the role of state social support bodies is strengthened. There is the same mechanism of introduction as in the case of benefits of assistance in material distress, where checking the fulfilment and fulfilment of the conditions for entitlement to the benefit and its payment is a necessary legal authorisation. So I will recapitulate my amendment simply to prevent my amendment from manipulating people with a permanent residence report in the apartment, such as the fictitious eviction of spouses, when a profitable parent is reported for permanent residence in a different apartment than a non-profitable second parent, along with their children, and this parent is asking for a benefit from a lack of income. Furthermore, I have come to the effect that I have moved this amendment to 1 July 2020, because I am aware, and we all know that if an increase in parental contribution comes into force from 1 January 2020, there will be a huge increase in customer visits to the State Social Support Departments. Moreover, in January 2020, or in January, specifically as in the first month of the quarter, applications for housing aid and children's contributions will be reviewed. Overall, workplaces and agendas will be enormously burdened at the beginning of the year and new models of forms will also need to be prepared and approved for this transition, so I have chosen the period of effectiveness from 1. 7. 2020. I believe that, at least with this small change, we will help to make an active solution and prevent the abuse of housing benefits. As we were told by the Minister, they know about this problem, but they wanted to include it in a big novel. But I really think we can make it work even before the amendment goes through the legislative process. This legislation will limit claims on the state budget. There will be, at least I hope, a reduction in the number or amount of the levy paid and this proposed adjustment will have no effect on the budgets of municipalities and regions. So I will sign up for my amendment in a detailed debate and I hope and hope that you will support this amendment, because I think that each of us has a problem with the abuse of benefits that someone is manipulating. We know about it, but we're not doing anything about it. So now we can do at least that minimum for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u15	Thank you. Next, Mrs Šafránková is enrolled in the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u16	Good evening, thank you for your word. Since the beginning of the discussion of this amendment, our esteemed colleagues, colleagues, the SPD club has supported the variant that we could call a higher parental contribution for all. For all parents and especially for all children under four years of age. In this sense, I have tabled an appropriate amendment with my colleague Bauer, which the Member will read in a detailed debate. I will present my reasoning for our position at the final third reading. Today, however, only briefly. [[18.00 hours]] The parental contribution is a universal general benefit of state social support, the purpose of which is not to test the income and property situation of their addressees. There is no substitute for a salary, as it also often sounds. It therefore has no logical reason to admit the above increase only on the basis of such an unspeakable and arbitrary criterion as taking this benefit at a certain date, which does not reflect the social or economic situation of the beneficiaries at all. This is an unfair and discriminatory measure against children's parents under the age of four, which is to be adjusted by an increase in government decisions, although according to one of the original proposals of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, they should also have been affected. It's about denying the principle of legitimate expectation, just decency and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u17	Thank you. Next for the debate is Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a novel which concerns or is a gros, and that is, of course, a contribution to care. I must say that the Committee on Social Policy and at first reading probably had a big discussion in that form, because the Minister and the Committee on Social Policy announced that it had actually had an initial proposal for an increase of 80,000 for all children under four years of age and after the end of the parental allowance, and more or less other colleagues from ODS, KDU and I think also from the Pirates and, of course, across the political spectrum, that they supported this form and expressed their amendments. I must say that I do not agree with this option. And I'm glad she's admitted to the government's form of the proposal that we've been promoting from the start. And I have to say a little bit that I would also perhaps blame Minister Maláčová for the whole media campaign for which children it will be, so, more or less, I would say that she caused it herself at the beginning of the negotiations, not only at the level it will be, but rather at whom it will concern. I am convinced that this parental contribution is really for parents who stay home with their children, take care of them, and who receive parental allowance, and it is a substitute for lost earnings while you are caring for your child. That's all - and I mentioned it here in the past - that it actually recognises considerable flexibility, opportunities to work in receiving parental allowance, the possibility of shortening, extension, etc., so it is possible for parents and the care of children to have great flexibility and response simply to the situation in life. And, of course, I also got some family examples in my e-mails, where they received a parental contribution for a year or a year and a half and dealt with their life situation. Yes, but it's always about the parent's choice, how much, of course, if he works, how much and how long he wants to receive the parental contribution. And I think that at this point, we really shouldn't be talking about it, and then we shouldn't be mediating these games, because I think that's what we could ask for, like, older kids. And how do we explain this to parents who might say, but we also want to be entitled to it backwards. I really think that at this point, parents should be dealing with the situation of life, or, more or less, the income from other activities and, of course, the income from employment. And I am very sorry, because across the political spectrum, we are primarily interested in increasing the parental contribution. So that if parents stay home with their child, they have adequate income and are not afraid to pay their rent, to have diapers and other needs, which, of course, are in the care of the child. So they don't worry about getting into a serious life situation just because they let themselves have a baby. And I believe that the 80,000 crowns are as small as that. I would like to see it succeeded in a much higher number. But I really think it's kind of the beginning. And as you've all said here across the political spectrum, there's no problem with an 80,000 increase in parental contributions. And, of course, KSČM wants to go this way. Therefore, we will not support the amendments that my previous speakers have made here, for these reasons that I have said here. And we will support the amendment, but Mrs Pastuchová, who does not concern the parental contribution, but the part - we can call it a sticker, of course. But the part that concerns the persons considered together. That's why I'm saying this here, and it's been said that there's an exact demonstration of when the Prime Minister enters something, he promises, he says that it's being dealt with, and then after a year and a half, you find that nothing's being dealt with, or that nothing's going on, and that nothing's really going on. So, on the Social Policy Committee, we all unanimously - I don't know if we were 16, or 18, I don't remember exactly - gave the resolution that we are really upset about the situation that was actually announced to us by the de facto six ministries - and now I have to sort out the Minister Dostálová a little bit, because the Ministry of Regional Development really thinks he's trying to address the area that he has in his competence. So, more or less, she told us that nothing was going to happen, or that it was going to take a different form and that everything was getting longer. [[Ministry]] But we don't have time in structurally affected regions anymore. And I read my colleague Eva Fialová's article today. I'm sure you all know that Eva Fialová, even though she's not on the Committee on Social Policy, is trying to solve the situation in the Ústí Region and especially in Ústí so-called "my way," and I thank her very much for that. And I said on the Social Policy Committee that it's already 20 minutes past 12, and if the representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and other ministries affected by this preparation, fifteen measures to combat poverty, that they can make fun of the law, that they can make fun of those people who live in those structurally affected regions and that they will always just promise to ride, but nothing will be done because it doesn't fit their PR agenda. All right, everybody, we're done with this! And I am not at all afraid to say it openly today, and I have also said it on the Social Policy Committee: yes, MEPs have gone crazy across the political spectrum, and we don't care who's going to give a parliamentary proposal today in the framework of measures of fifteen points in the fight against poverty, because if the proposal is good and good, and if it is going to address at least partly the situation that is escalating, I will tell you that across the political spectrum, and we don't care if it is coalically bad, we will raise our hand. And that is why today I say, even though Mrs Pastuchová is now a coalition of YES and the ČSSD, she gives this amendment, and I am convinced that the Minister here will make arguments as to why it is wrong to address it in this form, so I am telling you that we will support this amendment. And I kept it, of course, also Mrs Richterová, whom I do not see here, to judge and are more or less parametric, or rather the same form. But Mrs Richterová is a passage that is not quite finished yet. That is why we have chosen the path of support for Mrs Pastuchová. And even though, of course, this is gonna be a big deal for state social support in the sense that the staff will be, like, really critically oversized in those challenges, and really those women, I can say, mostly women, they won't prosecute, so they themselves said that for their practice, they just need help to make those visits to the households, because until now they could only do it in a material emergency. And as you know, state social support is a housing allowance that accounts for 80 percent of the expenditure on housing benefits. And the fact that he's being abused is just reality. It's not just a housing benefit, but I mentioned a care allowance here today. Ask pediatricians what the abuse of care allowance is like. I think that only if we asked the people from practice themselves would we admit the situation that's here. 31 billion per year for a care allowance, and how much of it is abused. It's some of the billions that are really fired. And I think we really should rethink this system. I believe that the situation that's showing up here maybe some ministries will drive them to act and they won't just tell us that something isn't going to work and that they won't, because we're really tired of it. I've already given my opinion on the Ústí Region. We have a meeting in the near future for further preparation of the amendment, which will probably be parliamentary. And, of course, I've made it clear to the Union of Towns and Communities, which, above all, from that side, where those disabilities are due to abuse of those benefits, so, of course, they're going to be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u19	Thank you. Let me read your apologies. Mrs Margita Balaštíková apologizes from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Václav Votava apologises from 18 a.m. to the end of the day, also for working reasons. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. At this point, I don't see anyone, I'm ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? Neither the rapporteur nor the Minister are interested in final words. I do not have in my notes that there would be any proposal that we would vote on at this time, so I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be duly justified. At this point, Mr Bauer is the first to have a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u20	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to sign up to this amendment, which has been inserted into the system under number 3313. I have already discussed this amendment in the framework, and it is an integral part of the detailed explanatory memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u21	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová is also registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u22	Thank you for the floor. In the general debate, I have justified my amendment, which we put forward together with my colleague Kaňkovský, and is already recorded under number 3336 in the system. I hereby declare myself to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u23	Thank you. Mrs. Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u24	Thank you for the floor. I also subscribe to my amendment, which I justified in the general debate and which is read in the system under number 3259.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u25	Thank you. Next, Mr Chvojka will speak in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u26	Well, have a nice day, maybe for the last time. I would like to formally sign up for my amendment, which I presented in the general debate. It's stored in the system under number 3320. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u27	Yes, thank you. Mrs Richterová is also registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u28	Thank you. I would like to sign up for the amendment to my colleagues and my number 3298, further to Amendment 3299, 3301 and 3469. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u29	Thank you, too. The next is Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u30	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which I hope I have explained sufficiently to you, under number 3463. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u31	Thank you. Mr Martínek is the last to be entered into a detailed debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment under House document 3300, which is justified in detail directly on the proposal. This is a compromise solution to a gradual... So that the current proposal to increase the parental contribution does not have such a negative impact on those who no longer receive the parental contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-016-017.u33	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. I don't see anyone reporting, I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask if there is an interest in the final words after a detailed debate. It's not like that. I do not have in the notes that there is any proposal that we should vote on, for example. shortening the time limit for third reading. For this reason, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I'm opening point 44, which is
