ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u1	284. Proposal for establishment Investigation commission of the PSP of the Czech Republic for evaluation of the influence of authoritarian regimes on internal affairs of the Czech political system / House document 1778/ A group of 44 Members and Members submitted a proposal to set up this committee of inquiry. At the same time, this group prepared a motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, which is part of the House document 1778. I ask that the representative of this group, Helena Langšádlová, or any other member appointed, take the floor. In the meantime, I'll read the apologies. For working reasons, today from 14.30 to 15.30, Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes and Mr Jaroslav Bžoch apologizes for the negotiations between 14.30 and 16.30. Do I have an application for a check-out? [[Yes.]] I'll check you out. Sign up with all your voting cards. [[There are few Members in the hall.]] I would like to ask Members to sign up with their voting cards. And now I would like to ask the representative of the group of petitioners, Helena Langšádlová, to take the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, we have proposed more than a year ago the establishment of a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies to evaluate the influence of authoritarian regimes on the internal affairs of the Czech political system. At the time we made this proposal, we were mainly based on information that our intelligence service regularly reports in public news. But not just that. We have also come from the experience that many of us have had in contact with colleagues from other European countries and countries who attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. You know, in recent years, there's been a lot of talk about so-called. hybrid threats, both in the form of cyber attacks, which are several thousand a day, and other manifestations of hybrid threats, which are, among other things, various disinformation campaigns, influencing individual states and...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u3	Yes, the Member is quite rightly addressing me in order in the Chamber. So I'd like to ask you to ensure the peace of mind in the Chamber. Once again, I will ask you to remain calm in the Chamber so that the Member can speak calmly. [[Still noise in the hall.]] I don't think it's working. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u4	Thank you. It is true that we have also asked for a hearing at this meeting, that the impulse was information concerning China's increasing influence in the Czech Republic, whether it was about the case that was in the media and about Home Credit PPF, but also about the impact on the Charles University or about the University of Olomouc. However, I would like to say that our motivation is that we want the Czech State to do everything possible to make it more resilient to these very influences. We do not want to judge the specific events that have taken place or that may have been some of you. I would very much like Members not to be consciously involved in such events in the future, and we also want to contribute to making them more aware of what is happening in our country. Since it is no secret that elections are being regularly influenced in Europe, there is a regular influence on referendums in Europe and not by chance a report on the impact of authoritarian regimes on the Brexit process will be published in the near future. And I think these are really very serious. What we came from. We came out, as I said before, especially from what our intelligence services say, but also from other open sources. When we look at the information that is being published in this context, e.g. Report of the Security Information Services of 2017 talks about Russian activity, which is continuously focused mainly on influence operations on our territory and conscious or unconscious exploitation of Czech resources. It is true that China's activities in the year in question showed less influence and more intelligence penetration compared to the previous year. There is also a lot of information about the activities of the diplomatic corps of the Russian Federation in Prague. There is also information that the Czech Republic was the target of Russian activities, which were part of a general Russian hybrid strategy aimed at the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. When you look at the news and information, there is a broad hybrid strategy of Russia on our territory, whether it's information, disinformation, propaganda, deception, politics, economy, criminal sphere, espionage, culture, education. There's a lot of information that I'm assuming you've met them, too. Please take a look for example. for information from the Annual Report of 2018. The serious threat to the security of the Czech Republic in 2018 represented mainly enemy activities of foreign power. Enemy activities of foreign power. State and non-state foreign and domestic actors tried to involve a wide range of methods, activities, weaken Czech state institutions, influence the state's official international security positions and issue natural attributes of democratic governance for its weaknesses. The threats to these so-called hybrid threats concerned a number of areas across society. And the aim of what is happening in our country is to influence the decision-making process at different levels of public administration in its strategic advantage. And maybe that's what we're doing today. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] [[14.40 hours]] Russian and Chinese intelligence activities have intervened in policy, diplomacy, espionage, economy and information struggle. If you look at the news, because at this point, I'm just quoting from reports that are publicly available, Chinese intelligence activists have grown both in intensity and scope. So what we're watching here today in 2019 has already been described by our intelligence services in 2017. And even in 2018, they posed a threat to the interests and security of the Czech Republic. I beg you, colleagues, let us pay attention to this. I believe that what is being said here means that, in the context of Chinese activities targeting the Czech academic community, security forces and state administration, the BIS has recorded an increasing number of invitations addressed to Czech citizens for training, seminars and sightseeing tours, I would really like to point out that the risks arising from this information are really serious and are dealt with by legislators in a large part of the parliaments. Why the investigation committee? The commission of inquiry aims at four fundamental questions: firstly, to assess the state of activities of foreign power hostile to the interests of the Czech Republic according to the valid security strategy; secondly, to identify the weaknesses of the state leading these risks; thirdly, to recommend to the government specific measures of non-legislative nature; and fourthly, to recommend to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic legislative amendments. Often even in the discussions, it was mentioned why we want to the Commission, why we want to deal with this when we have committees dealing with the supervision of our intelligence services. Our aim is certainly not to evaluate the work of our services, which we trust, but our aim is for the Czech Republic to do everything in its power to be more resilient to these new threats. I would also like to say that it is enough to look at the documents that are valid in the Czech Republic, and this is the Security Strategy of February 2015 and the National Security Audit of 14 December 2016. All these documents, adopted by the Government of the Czech Republic, refer to these hybrid threats, which our intelligence services also draw attention to. For example, this is said in the National Security Audit: In line with current findings arising from information provided by the intelligence services as well as other sources, the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, as well as some non-state actors such as the Islamic State can be assessed in this way. I would like to ask - what I am referring to, what we are asking you to do with colleagues, is only what is adopted by the Government in the current version of the Security Strategy of the Czech Republic, and we just want to see what is in this Security Strategy and what is also in the National Security Audit. I regret to say that this is not fully fulfilled and unfortunately not all is being done to make our society more resilient to these new hybrid threats. I would like to point out that, as I said, cyber-attacks, for example, are among those threats. I believe that the Czech Republic is not doing everything it should do at the moment, because if it did, it would have more resilient infrastructure, for example, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After all, you must know that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, his information systems have been repeatedly attacked. I believe that, as I do, you also resent that hostile powers, but most likely Russia, have attacked the information systems of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I mean, even you have to know what the risks are today. Just look at how unfortunate the impact of a cyber attack on one hospital is, though it probably wasn't politically motivated. But we really need to take steps to be more resilient both from the point of view of cyber attacks and from the point of view of other threats. Undoubtedly, these include the amount of disinformation spread by our society, and let us be inspired by those countries that are more resilient, which invest in media literacy, which invest in not decomposeing society in front of their eyes, as it often does in our country. [[There's a constant heavy noise in the hall.]] I would like to emphasise one thing. This proposal is certainly not directed towards the government, it is not aimed at coalition - opposition. Personally, I would like to say that I appreciate some of the government's positions, but I really do not think that everything is done to better resist those threats that are here, and in which others, even European states, are already ahead of us, are more active. Take, for example, the Great Britain. There they set up a similar commission and are really trying to protect their constitutional system. Similar commissions are also set up in the United States and other countries. We're definitely not the only ones. I would also like to ask you at this point to open up the debate on this subject and to look for a way to fulfil our constitutional role, because, in addition to being legislators, we accept legislation, so we have a controlling role from the Constitution, and I think it is our duty - and we will be responsible for this once, we will be accountable to those who come after us, to those next generations - it is our duty to do everything to take these threats, which I do not here at this time, but to the intelligence services, but very often also to the representatives of the North Atlantic Alliance, the representatives of the European Union speak and which really are not good to take lightly. It is no less than that we must be resistant to the authoritarian regimes decompose our constitutional system here and to threaten democratic development. It may seem excessive to some of you, but really believe me that if you listen to the arguments made by, for example, in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly by the representatives of the Alliance, you would understand that even if they were such creepy threats, even if we don't see them from day to day - and I could give you a lot of examples of what is happening in this direction. Surely you know the story of an effort to revolutionize Montenegro before joining the North Atlantic Alliance, you certainly know the stories of interference with referendums in the UK, and, as I said, the report will soon be published. You must know the stories that happen in Finland, Sweden, France, and other countries. I would really like to ask you to pay attention to this. [[14.50 hours]] And since there is no committee here at the moment that proposes or does not address this issue comprehensively, and it really does not concern just those security issues, but also the issues of education and other questions, I would like to ask you to set up this committee. I know that some of you have a different opinion about this, a different point of view, and I understand that, and if this committee of inquiry cannot be established, I think that I and colleagues who have been discussing this for a long time are prepared to discuss some other alternatives that will guarantee us that the Czech state will be fulfilling, fulfilling its own approved security strategies, and taking all steps to really be more resilient to these threats. So much for my introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u5	So thank you, and I would like to thank Mrs Helena Langšádlová, for following with me from the rapporteur's table the general debate that I am opening with this. And I have here, first of all, for the general debate of Mr Jan Lipavský, and with a factual remark, Mr Jaroslav Holík subsequently made a statement. There you go. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to address the question of setting up a commission, a House body to address this issue, and let us say more from the formal point of view. There were arguments that the secret services should deal with this. Of course, the secret services are already dealing with this today, but the body thus formed, whether the commission of inquiry or the ordinary House Commission, is something to which we are heading here on the basis of a political agreement, and I very much welcome it and I am grateful for it, so it would be a supra-party body. Each political party would have one of its representatives there. Everyone would have the same access to that information. And such a commission would then address the issue politically, that is, from a political point of view. The goal wouldn't be to play police or spies, because that's what the government's security system is for. We're in parliament, so we can ask, we can design and approve laws, and that's the principle of the committee. That means lighting up the issue, giving it the importance and, above all, dealing with it sideways. This is really something that we agree on throughout the political plenary that this House, this Parliament and the Government of the Czech Republic know what is going on in the Czech Republic, and we are promoting a common interest. We've had a very unpleasant case here. I don't think there's any point in going back to that. So then I will be very grateful for the resolution, which I hope will be presented to us by YES, which if we accept, we will more or less confirm the commitment that is being made here, that in the first quarter of next year, we would have reached the provisions of such a commission. Just in the future, why it's important what the relevance is. We have absolutely fundamental and strategic decisions to make, there is a selection of suppliers for the construction of a nuclear power plant. We're about to build 5G networks. These are all projects that are absolutely necessary to do in foreign cooperation, and, of course, with these projects comes some foreign influence. And we should know how our state institutions are prepared for it. We're building an army, but even that army has to know what kind of environment it's in. So this is another very important circuit. I thank you for your attention and look forward to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u7	Mr Jaroslav Holík, Mr Kobza, will now speak with a point of fact and prepare for Mr Jiří Kobza. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will have a question. Is the Czech Republic different from other countries of the European Union? I don't think so. Our Republic has a Security Information Service, which is made up of experts. So if I'm hearing that we need to create a new commission here, then we're suggesting that our Security Information Service is working badly. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u9	Now, with Mrs Helena Langšádlová's factual remark and with priority rights, Mr Bartošek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u10	Through Mr President, Mr Holík, I have said several times that I have full confidence in the activities of the Security Information Service and other intelligence services. But precisely because I have full confidence in these services, I take the information they're telling us quite seriously compared to you. So one more time. The proposed commission, whether it will be investigative or otherwise, which should deal with these threats, so - first of all - it is based on the information of the Security Information Services and other services. Secondly, it is not to evaluate the activities of these services, but to consider whether we are doing everything behind me as Members or as governments here for what we should be doing. That's what the proposal's about. And I regret to say that the Czech Republic is not fulfilling what it has in its own government approved strategy to combat hybrid threats. So that's what I've been talking about all along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u11	Now, with a factual remark, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek- has stáhnout. So now, with the factual remark of Mr Ivo Vondrák, and so far the last factual one, the chairman of the KDU-ČSL club will be prepared by Mr Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. More than a week ago, I was involved in an emergency situation. An extraordinary situation where a lone active shooter from the immediate vicinity executed seven people. I have witnessed as chairman of the crisis staff of the activities of all the forces - police, paramedics and firefighters. One more thing I'm eating, thank you for what they've done. But I didn't think to call another committee on this, which will continue to investigate these matters. If we have confidence in our security services, let's trust them! I don't believe any of us here is capable of catching, understanding and analyzing these things. I'm telling you straight. We're amateurs from the intelligence point of view! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u13	So now Mr Miroslav Kalousek has come forward with a factual remark. So this time, it's waking you up, so, uh, application again. Please, and your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u14	No, I had no idea that I would have to repeat what Mrs Langšádlová said again, that apparently Mr Vondrák did not listen to her. So let's just do it one more time, sub-twelfth. I'm sorry about the 1 2th time, but I guess we have to keep saying that to each other. The purpose of this commission is not to investigate the activities of the secret services. The purpose of this commission is to control executives, i.e. governments, whether secret service reports are handled with full seriousness and whether they are used to minimise cyber security risks. Because many of us have reason to believe that a number of government officials may sign a secret service report, but they don't. He takes them very formally and draws no conclusions as they should. So it's government control. It is therefore government control, which is the responsibility of the Chamber of Deputies. It's not a secret service check. I firmly believe, Mr Vondrák, that you may have heard me by now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u15	Now two factual points. So Mr Ivo Vondrák will speak first and Mr Jan Lipavský will prepare himself. So it's your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u16	I would just point out to Mr Kalousek that I am neither deaf nor intellectually shy. And I think what you said is even worse than what you said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u17	Wait a minute, now, because before you is Mr. Jan Lipavský and subsequently Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. [[He responds to Mr Bláh, who is going to the speaker's desk.]] So, Mr. Ambassador, please, your de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u18	Hello, I also dare to respond to Mr Vondrák. We don't want to play police or the Secret Service, we don't want to play them. We don't want to play them, just like any other board of directors doesn't pretend to be soldiers, or... of course, you have a lot of people in the profession, but the functioning and principle of those committees is different, it's setting up a political agenda. We want to be completely fair, each political party is to be represented by one member. That means it should be totally fair, it shouldn't be an Inquisition. Well, that's the first thing I wanted to say. And the other thing. I would like to ask if we could load the motion for a resolution so that we can talk about it and possibly know what we are going to do in this meeting. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u19	Thank you. There will certainly be room for a detailed debate on the motion for a resolution. Now I have three factual points here, so I'll read the order. Member Miroslav Kalousek, Member Jiří Bláha and Chairman of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek. [[Member Kalousek withdraws his point of order.]] So he's pulling Mr. Kalousek. So, Mr. Jiří Bláha will speak, please, Mr. Ambassador. The chairman of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek will be ready. Please, two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to ask you. I think we have more dignified and, above all, more necessary topics to deal with. Maybe I can give you a hint, and it's the import of products at sub-cost prices to our Republic. It destroys our national economy, it destroys our economy, it destroys our relations with foreign partners, and it mainly destroys our villages. Because if you imagine that meat from Germany, even if it's made there for CZK 38, we'll bring it here for 25, and that's how we could go after the main raw material, that's the important things we should be dealing with here, and we're dealing with whether or not we're being threatened. We don't know anything about this, we'll never be able to find out. And even if we learn something, we'll know what we already knew a long time ago because no one can tell us anything. So it's just a game. And since you probably don't have topics and you don't know how to work, you're looking for what you would talk about to be seen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u21	The chairman of the club ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek will now perform. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u22	Good afternoon, colleagues. We have supported the inclusion of this point actively and are, of course, ready to participate in the creation of a commission. However, the proposal is: A proposal to set up an inquiry committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic to evaluate the influence of authoritarian regimes on the internal affairs of the Czech political system. I do not understand this very much, however, my colleague Kalousek finally explained it, finally translated it into Czech when he explained it to Professor Vondrák. It's an investigation committee to see if the members of the government are reading the intelligence reports. This is how it was said here and translated into Czech. So I finally understood, and I thank my esteemed colleague Kalousek, through Mr President, for translating this into Czech. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u23	Now, on the point of fact, the Member, Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. Please, two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u24	Very politely. Whether they read or don't read proves the signature. We won't be able to find out if this guy just signed or read. But the point is whether these reports were used to benefit the security of the Czech Republic. And that's a pretty big question, which we should be interested in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u25	Now, with a factual remark, I have two applications. So, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, as the petitioner, will prepare Mr Milan Brázdil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u26	One more time. I am, Mr Faltýnek, through Mr President, when I was talking about this here, I said in advance that there are facts and these are warnings of our services against these particular threats. You've got it in the report, and I've partially read it, apparently written it. I could talk about many other information from public, open sources about what is happening in other European countries in the United States, but I will not burden you with it. Here, on the one hand, these open reports are not virtual threats, it is a very specific threat that is taken seriously at the level of the European Union and NATO. In addition, there are actually some steps of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is to make our company more resilient. I also said in this introductory word that I have many positions, even though I am an opposition member, of our government. I also appreciate the position of the Prime Minister in the Skripal case, I appreciate the work of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of the Interior and others. Appreciate it. But there are still a lot of things that could and should be done in this area, and even according to the approved security strategy, they have not yet been done. And my desire and purpose is only to look at what else can be done in this area and to do to make us more resilient, and the impact of these new hybrid threats on our society has been as little as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u27	Now four factual points. So I'll read the order. Is Mr. Foldyna still reporting? So I'll read the order. Mr Brázdil, Mr Michálek, Mr Vondrák, Mr králíček and Mr Foldyna. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u28	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Kalousek asked if all this information was properly used. I think, ladies and gentlemen, there are over 200 states in the world. And imagine, we are the sixth safest. Yeah, we could be the first, but I don't feel like we're at risk here and the government isn't using that information. Maybe we can be fifth, maybe even neighborhoods, but the committee isn't gonna change that much. I just wanted to say that we're a luxury state where living here means being safely managed in this world. I'm very happy with the intelligence services and the others that we have such luxury services here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u29	Jakub Michálek, Chairman of the Pirates Club, will now appear and Mr. Ivo Vondrák will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I appreciate the fact that colleagues from the coalition are also involved in the discussion. However, I am a little lacking in the discussion here to speak for the government, because it is still a government that is responsible for the BIS and which bears its conclusions, and that government should respond to the recommendations that are mentioned in the report, and given that the BIS warns against the influence of China and other states, other totalitarian states, in the territory of the Czech Republic, draws attention to the spy networks, I am convinced that our government is certainly not inactive and that it is ready for us, given that it was a firmly placed point for which it could prepare, to inform about the measures it has taken under its jurisdiction. Minister Zaorálek is here, I think I saw Minister Petříček. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is not here, but I believe that these colleagues can represent him very well on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u31	I will now ask Mr Ivo Vondrák to speak and Mr Robert králíček will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, none of us question the fact that we are the target of these attacks. And I may have even more experience with these attacks as an author and basically a person who was responsible for one of the largest supercomputer centers in this republic. For one of the biggest supercomputer centers. We were the target of these things. Nobody's questioning that. I'm just questioning that someone here can handle this in this Chamber of Deputies. Nobody! We won't even check, because none of us understand. We're doctors, teachers, businessmen, lawyers. But in my opinion, we want to create another committee here - by the way, we already have several committees and committees here that can deal with this - so we just don't remove those threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u33	So now, with a factual remark, Mr Robert králíček will speak and prepare Mr Jaroslav Foldyna. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u34	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to respond to the speech of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Mr Kalousek. Mr President, through Mr President, what you are saying is that you want to control the government is happening today through commissions - the BIS, through the Military Intelligence Commission, through other committees. The Commission is asking governments how they work with these reports. The Commission can control the government. We don't need another committee here to control the government. But I can imagine from the point of view of defining the hybrid threat, its complexity and convergence, as it works, that we can have discussions on the Security Committee or agree to set up a new subcommittee or committee. I don't have a problem with that, because those threats are changing, they're converging, and they need to be addressed. But I agree with my colleague Vondrák, we're not gonna settle this here at the House. So let's meet outside the House, in committee week, representatives of the parliamentary parties, and let's talk about it, if that's what it takes, if we need a special committee to do that, what the committee will do, how it will deal with it. But what do we want to investigate? Who's going to testify there? Mr. Kellner? Mr. President? That's nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u35	So I will now ask Mr Jaroslav Foldyna to speak and Mr Jan Lipavský will prepare himself. Still factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As a sovereign country, as a sovereign state, we must ensure that we know who is influencing our policies. We know from the Constitution and from democracy that fundamental things in the state can affect those who have been elected by their voters. That's what the government, Parliament, the Senate, etc. are for. So I'm kind of missing this discussion here when I hear a call here for the government to answer, how it deals with service reports, i.e. naively, someone here wants the government to say how counterintelligence works. That's a little misleading. And I think it's actually a counter-view of the whole thing. The influence. Of course, every state, every big state, big economy, power has an effort to influence another state in the economy, in politics, and to promote some of its fundamental interests even with its partners - partners, not just enemies, are always talking about enemies here. It seems a little bit like a debate in the '50s, when the enemy was around every corner, the mashed potato was thrown from America, and now he's throwing us potato mandelinas from Russia again. I believe that if we want to set up a commission, it is the Commission against hybrid threats as such, in general. And hybrid threats are state-established companies, organizations, NGOs that are paid from abroad and that carry out their activities in the territory of a second state to influence its life and policy. So if we form in general that we set up a committee on hybrid threats here, I understand that, and we can discuss it. [[draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u37	So I'm going to read the apologies now, because I've actually accumulated a lot of them here, so that time doesn't pass in the meantime. So today, from 14.30 to the end of the day, Mr Radek Holomčík apologizes for health reasons, Mrs Jana Krutáková apologises from 15.15 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Aleš Juchelka apologizes from 14.30 to 15 hours for reasons of work, and Mr Julius Špičák apologises from 16 to 19.00 for family reasons, and Mrs Helena Válková apologizes from 14.30 to 15.00 for reasons of work, and Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologises from 15.30 to the end of the day for family reasons. And now here I have three factual points. Mr Jan Lipavský will now appear, Mr Vít Rakušan and Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Foldyna through Mr President, you have finished your speech with something that I completely agree with. I'd really like it if there was a committee on hybrid threats. That's, say, a compromise or some kind of solution that I can imagine in the format of nine members, nine political parties, nine clubs, it seems completely fair to me, just like we talked about here. So I really welcome it. I need to reiterate, to define myself against Mr Vondrák's argument that we are not experts. Well, we're politicians, we're not really experts. This could be argued by any committee that there are laymen in it. But also the activity of the organs corresponds to that, i.e. experts are invited to present their expert opinion, to explain it to the laymen's politicians and to take the appropriate position or to approve the recommendations. Of course, there are arguments that such an authority would control the government. I think that Mr Kalousek did not use an entirely appropriate example. There are a number of other examples where it is appropriate for politicians to deal with this. We should be sure how the elections in the Czech Republic are protected. We should be sure how some IT systems are protected, we should know how these influence operations are going. It is a more general and broader agenda. I also welcome what Mr králíček said, i.e. find some way to that agreement and compromise, because that's really something that we should find a consensus on with the entire political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u39	So now there are still two factual points, President STAN Vít Rakušan, Mr Václav Klaus, and then Jan Bartošek, Mr Vojtěch Filip and Minister Zaorálek in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. It's really just a few of my previous speakers. By your means, Mr President, to Mr Brázdil. We are certainly all happy to be living in one of the safest countries in the world, it is certainly a great credit to you as rescuers, representatives of the integrated rescue system, quality police, geographical taxes of no major natural disasters coming to us. These are simply the criteria by which the security of the individual country in the world, crime, etc. is assessed. Yes, we're in good shape. But simply say that there is no connection here, or it has to do with whether or not there are hybrid strategic threats to the future security of the Czech Republic, because the world and its dangers - security changes, those threats are new, they are erratic, we don't know them, and we have to learn to face them. This, of course, is done by the Security Information Service, Military Intelligence etc. On the other hand, gentlemen, you're not telling the truth here. I am chairman of the Military Intelligence Commission, and it is not the commission's job to control the government. That's just not true. This is a commission that controls the activities of Military Intelligence throughout its scope. Of course, we have the opportunity to question certain matters of government, but it is certainly not our job to control how the government treats secret service reports. That's just a shift in the interpretation of what's in the statute of the individual control committees. That's a purposeful misinterpretation of what those committees are supposed to perform. We were talking here about the possibility for the newly established commission to actually control how the responsible authorities deal with the outputs that come from the secret services. Nothing more, nothing less. And I think the debate has moved to emotions for nothing. The commission is not to punish anyone, all political representatives from this House would be present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u41	So now Mr Václav Klaus will speak to Mr Václav Klaus and Mr Robert králíček will prepare himself. So far, I have these two applications for de facto. So please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u42	Hello. It's before Christmas, so I'll be constructive. I very much wish that Czech politics would not be influenced by any country at all, it was decided by Czech citizens and their legal representatives regardless of whether it was just China or Russia or Saudi Arabia, where sometimes you would be cut up at the embassy, when you are a journalist, to absolutely all countries. [[15.20 hours]] For this reason, Trikolóra will propose, we have it written, we will bring it in January, a law that prohibits the financing of political parties from abroad, including various foundations. Then I will appeal very much to you to remain in this position to influence foreign countries and support this proposal, because it is an important matter, and we will defend it in this way. I'd rather not comment on what you're saying. Perhaps just one comment on brexit. As I noted, the hybrid threats were responsible, and the citizens wanted something completely different, so right now there were elections and the citizens showed that they wanted it just like that, and nothing like that happened. But I don't want to excite the debate because I can imagine what would go wrong. So I appeal to you, encourage Czech policy to influence Czech subjects, not someone from abroad - fall to whom you fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u43	We now have three factual points - Mr Robert králíček, Mr Pavel Staněk, Mrs Helena Langšádlová and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura - fourth still. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u44	I would like to respond to Mr Rakušan through Mr President. I like how Stan's colleagues always talk to us, how they know for sure what we think, how we should behave. I didn't mean to misinterpret purposefully. Okay, I was wrong. I'm sorry. But the BIS Committee or Military Intelligence can ask the government. So tell me in detail how you imagine such a control when the information in most cases is in some secret or confidential regime. So how will such government control take place? The Prime Minister will go to the committee for questioning. The ministers will go to the committee for questioning. But the exits from that commission will be classified because most of these messages are classified. But for our good feeling, we'll know something. I really don't understand this investigation or these interrogations. As I say, let's talk about whether the world has changed, whether the committee structure, or the committee structure, should be replaced by another, some new one that will be named to prevent hybrid threats, or to control hybrid threats. I understand that. But an investigation? And please don't speak for me. I didn't purposefully want to misinterpret anything. I was just wrong, which I'm sorry about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u45	Now, with Mr Pavel Staněk's point of fact and Mrs Helena Langšádlová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u46	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, we've gotten our discussion into two currents - a little irrational, emotional, and go ahead, I believe, more rational. It must be said that a committee that would really go after hybrid threats wouldn't be investigating would make sense to me personally. But as the document is submitted, and as we started to discuss this point, unfortunately, this point doesn't make sense to me either. So I would suggest that we interrupt this item, prepare it at the level of individual membership clubs, and then return to it with some more rational assignment than the investigative commission on government activities or some other bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u47	Am I to understand that you are proposing to suspend the procedural motion? [[Yes.]] But then we need until we can vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u48	I propose at least two calendar months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u49	For two calendar months. And that's until what time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u50	So, until February 20th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u51	Until April 20th. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] February? Yes. February. There. Well. We should vote immediately. [[Several Members shall report.]] Yes, yes, if this is a motion for a vote, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u52	I understand that, too. I would like us to discuss this factually, which is why I would like to have the counterproposal interrupted by January 30, 11 hours. It's Thursday the second week of the Chamber of Deputies. And I believe that until then, we will have the opportunity to discuss this in a matter of fact, and I believe that we all want the same thing to be a sovereign country that will not be subject to these threats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u53	Chairman of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u54	We will definitely support both of these proposals. Maybe this fellow Langšádlová is better, she's specific. It's just too bad we're interrupting at this point because the debate was good, constructive, factual. [[Fun in the hall.]] We've learned a lot of interesting things. And it's a shame that this debate can't go on for a while. Knowing that we are acting today within 19 hours and that we would be able to handle most of them as the House acts constructively today, the things we have on the board. It's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u55	The chairman of the Zbyněk Stanjura Club is reporting, but only if it is a counterproposal, because otherwise we must vote immediately. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u56	I have a counterproposal actually based on what President Faltýnek said. I would like to ask both of you - a colleague and a colleague - to withdraw these proposals at this point and to present them after the general debate has been concluded. That's counterproposal. That means it's like there's going to be a vote. I think it would be a good idea for the arguments to be made today, so that on 30 January we will not respond to another speech that will not happen today, or that on 20 February. I do not want to anticipate the outcome of the vote. So that's a request. Only those who made the proposal can download it. I think it's rational. But it would be good for the arguments to fall in the debate today, so that they can possibly be addressed by some political action.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u57	Now it is up to the plaintiffs to accept your challenge. Mr. Staněk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u58	Yes, I accept this proposal here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u59	So you're pulling out. Do I understand your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u60	Yes, I'm withdrawing the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u61	Now, if it is Mrs Langšádlová, or we will have to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u62	I also respect the fact that we will still be discussing in substance, with this proposal of mine, that is to interrupt until 30 January 11 hours, so that until then there is room for substantive debate, applies after the end of the general debate, that is, before the resolutions are proposed and we will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u63	Okay. So, at the end of the general debate, you are making a procedural proposal to interrupt the negotiations on this point by 30. 1st until 11 o'clock. Okay. This is a proposal after the end of the general debate. We're going to go back and we have a factual remark from the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. So now you can talk about anything. Please. And it will be prepared in the general debate, because I do not have another factual one here, Mr Jan Bartošek, with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u64	I have a request for colleagues and colleagues who have either already performed or will yet perform, but I think we can agree that the matter of national security should not be a matter of governing a positional struggle. Maybe somebody doesn't like some of the suggestions, I fully respect that, but I'm sure it's not like anyone wants to try the government. I think that in the area of national security, we should, if possible, find as much political agreement as possible, because this is a matter that goes beyond the parliamentary term and goes beyond the standard fight of the coalition versus the opposition. I was also involved in the last parliamentary term of the debate on the Cyber Security Act, how to defend it and so on. And the debate was really rusty. It's rusty. And we haven't moved much. So, first of all, I would like to call on everyone to throw away party tricks on national security to try to find them. And I would just like to remind you, if anyone invents a design other than a committee of inquiry, at this point, it simply cannot be voted - not today, not in January, not in February, not ever. I'm not questioning the idea. I just want to point out that it would have to be called otherwise, it would have to be at a different point and so on. And the problem that exists in the field of intelligence, I think we can name it directly on the microphone in public. Mr. Vondrák said we all believe in our secret services. That's just not true. I'm bohužel so. The President of the Republic does not trust secret services. Or some of them. And that's just the problem. I know we can't solve this here. But let's not say that all leaders of the state trust their secret services. Unfortunately, that's not true. I don't want to use it in a political struggle. But it's a fact. And by the way, that's one of the reasons why we have to deal with this in the Chamber of Deputies. If it were true that all constitutional officials were moving forward like this, which is the right approach to trusting their secret services, this debate would be much easier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u65	Thank you for keeping time. Now, therefore, the general debate and order, I have priority rights here - Mr Jan Bartošek, President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek and then Mr Jiří Kobza at this time. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I hope that my colleague Faltýnek will come, because he said that he would like to know the reasons for setting up this committee, so I have a few reasons why this committee should actually come into existence. Some Members, but also some senators, are concerned about the growing influence of authoritarian regimes on the internal affairs of the Czech political system. And this is actually one of the motivations leading us to try to set up an inquiry committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to evaluate the influence of authoritarian regimes on the internal affairs of the Czech political system. Similar commissions and special parliamentary investigative initiatives exist today, for example. in the USA, the United Kingdom or Singapore and Canada are newly setting up a commission focusing on Chinese influence. The benefits of such investigations are already apparent today. Thanks to their role, the public learns practical information about foreign influence in their country, or illegitimate foreign influence on electoral processes. Here, just to clarify, for example, in rethinking the facts of the criminal code of spy, this is a change, for example. took place in Latvia. Intelligence services not only provide information to politicians, but they themselves cannot take almost any measures, including legislative ones. It is therefore up to us politicians to listen in detail to experts and our own institutions and to propose concrete measures. The main role of the commission of inquiry, as I think about it, will be to present the report "evaluation of the state of action of foreign power in the Czech Republic," which will first assess the state of activities of foreign power against the interests of the Czech Republic according to the valid security strategy of the Czech Republic; Secondly, it identifies the weaknesses at the forefront of this phenomenon; thirdly, it shall recommend specific non-legislative measures to the Government; Fourthly, it shall recommend any legislative amendments to the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that this commission of inquiry should primarily address issues: the role of the interests of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China in the negotiations of high constitutional agents; Secondly: the influence and geopolitical interests of the Russian Federation in Czech energy; third: the possibility of setting up a State mechanism for assessing risk investments and, where appropriate, protecting the critical infrastructure of the State from such risk investments; Fourth: linking the Czech disinformation community to the interests of the Russian Federation in the Czech Republic; Fifth: linking the Czech radical and extremist community to the interests of the Russian Federation in the Czech Republic; Sixth: links between the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China to Czech political parties; Seventh: cooperation between Moscow and the Russian community in the Czech Republic; eighth: links between the representative offices of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China to Czech political entities; 9.: links between Russian and Chinese companies to Czech state and political institutions. I would like to invite specialists on given topics, foreign experts for comparison of regional trends, but also representatives of Czech security and intelligence institutions. What should we want? I am convinced, and this will probably make it more complicated, that we should focus on the journeys of all Members to China, Crimea and Donbas, and evaluate who organises and pays such trips and thus influences Members. Secondly, charting which commercial entities with direct financial interests in Russia and China provide direct or indirect services to Members, thus affecting their actions or appearances. Thirdly, map out which specific former state officials have lobbied in favour of Russia or China in recent years. Fourthly, assess whether it makes sense to introduce regulatory measures so that these politicians can not abuse the information from which they benefit from their former functions. Here I am convinced that a suitable tool would be e.g. the possibility of adapting the bill on lobbying in order to reduce the enforcement of the illegitimate influence of foreign dictatorships on Czech politics. A few examples and materials from which I drew: Czech security institutions systematically warn against the influence of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China on political events in the Czech Republic. Below, I present an elevator from public reports that the Czech State has already published, and I justify why and what leads me to what I propose. I believe that it is not possible to deny this phenomenon of influence by foreign powers, because the Czech security institutions systematically and repeatedly warn about it. According to the Chinese Intelligence Security Information Service, the Russians are among the most active in the Czech Republic. I will read some of the conclusions of the 2018 BIS annual report. For example, Russian networks around Czech politicians. Russian intelligence officers have sought to establish links and culture of influence base in the vicinity of politicians who have an influence in the areas of interest of the Russian Federation. The BIS here, obviously, is mine. points out the Office of the President of the Republic, which serves as the main body of Russian and Chinese interests. The cause has been clear for several years. The long-term security problem remains overdesigning the Russian diplomatic mission in the Czech Republic, which according to the BIS serves as a large intelligence base for all three Russian intelligence services against the Czech objectives. Further Russian control of Czech disinformers. The BIS pays considerable attention to pro-Russian activists whose topics serve Russian state interests. For some of them, the BIS identifies direct links with Russian state power or management by Russian intelligence services. These are persons who form the core of the Czech disinformation scene. For the sake of clarity, according to the BIS, the main producers are disinformation in favour of the Russian Federation. The reference to the Russian intelligence management of persons in these groups is new, since in the past the BIS stressed primarily their ideological motivation. That was still in 2017. This warning can be read in a nutshell by the fact that most Czech disinformers started as ideological comrades of Russia, taking direct control of parts of them by Russian rapporteurs in 2018. Another area, and it is one of the main messages of the BIS in the area of warning against Chinese intelligence services, is the coverage of the mechanism of travel to China, which is organised and paid by Chinese institutions and through which the Communist State creates a contact network of people who will be in favour of it, while the Chinese rapporteurs to the so-called. addresses for cooperation use the Czech citizen's residence in China, which is fully under their control. Counterintelligence talks mainly about the travels of academics, representatives of state administration and security forces. And it should be noted that the novelty in the Chinese agenda is also a warning against China's targeted interference with Czech-Taiwan relations. Another change is the increase in Chinese intelligence activities in intensity and scope during 2018, which has clearly changed since 2017, when the BIS did not record the strengthening of Chinese intelligence capacities within the diplomatic mission in the Czech Republic. In fact, we can say that despite the alleged strategic partnership between the Czech Republic and the People's Republic of China at the same time, this Communist state significantly increased its hostile activities against the interests of the Czech Republic. The BIS says Chinese activities are comparable to Russian complexities. And there is an increase in the number of Chinese rapporteurs who are engaged in the recruitment of Czech citizens, which has obviously not happened before because we will not find this warning in the 2017 Counterintelligence Report. As a result, Chinese services operating in the Czech Republic are once again mentioned The Department of International Relations of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, with whom the President of the Chamber of Deputies met recently on his trip to China and discussed cooperation, allegedly at the advice of the Czech Embassy in Beijing. [[15.40 hours]] I would also like to focus on Russian and Chinese cyber-robbing of Czech institutions. Counterintelligence points out the state's failure in cyber security. It points not only to the notorious leaky network of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also to systematic attacks against representatives of the Army of the Czech Republic. Shortly to history: In 2015, China's diplomatic, intelligence and economic entities focused on the use of previous year's achievements and continued intensively to expand and cultivate pro-Chinese influence infrastructure in Czech politics and economy. The dominant Chinese intelligence force in the Czech Republic was military intelligence, whose activities complemented the activities of a specific Chinese intelligence organization, which is the Department of International Relations of the Communist Party of China, which I have already mentioned. In order to know what organization it is, or what department it is, it is an agency that falls under the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, which includes intelligence activities, Chinese diplomacy, business, as well as foreign relations. In 2015, the intelligence services followed the success of the previous year and continued to expand and deepen the influence infiltration of Czech politics and elements of Czech state power. [[Big noise in the hall.]] In the area of state controlled or supported cyber espionage, the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China represent the most serious threats to the Czech Republic. The year 2016 was marked by an increase in intensity and aggressiveness of influence operations and an increase in Chinese espionage activity in the Czech Republic and against Czech interests and security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u67	I would like to ask you to remain calm so that the Member can speak calmly, especially here on my left side. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u68	In 2016, the number of Chinese intelligence officers operating in China's diplomatic mission in the Czech Republic did not change significantly. However, the number of correspondents of passengers to the Czech Republic has increased within China's official delegations and, above all, the number of aggressiveness and intensity of Chinese intelligence operations against Czech objectives and interests has increased. Chinese intelligence services in their operations in the Czech Republic use the services and cooperation of the Chinese regional community in the Czech Republic. The dominant interest of China and their intelligence services in the Czech Republic was the elimination of the Tibetan issue and the disruption of Czech-Taiwan relations. Exponents of Chinese intelligence services in the Czech Republic were intensively looking for support for Chinese opinion in the said dispute concerning the South China Sea, not only in the Chinese community in the Czech Republic, but mainly on the Czech political and academic scene. In the Czech media, there were significant articles and interviews for which the Chinese embassy in Prague was behind the release. The aim of these activities was to influence the opinion of the Czech public, possibly Chinese, given the fact that the articles were translated and published on Chinese news servers, and to create the impression that the residents and political representatives of the Czech Republic are on the Chinese side. The National Security Audit of the Czech Republic, which is processed and I consider it to be a very good material, refers to the annual BIS reports. The effect of foreign power is not unknown to any sovereign state, and the reasons for attempts by foreign power to obtain information and their influence in another state range from economic importance to strength in matters of international relations to historical aspects of already extinct or newly formed spheres of influence. It does not limit itself to hostilely tuned members of the international community, but for audit purposes it is necessary to pay primary attention to those manifestations of foreign power that may pose a security threat to the Czech Republic. In line with current findings resulting from both information provided by the intelligence services and from other sources, the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, as well as other non-state actors such as the Islamic State, can be assessed. According to the security strategy of the Czech Republic, some countries are seeking to revise the existing international order and are ready to use methods of hybrid warfare combining conventional and unconventional military resources with non-military instruments such as propaganda using traditional and new media, intelligence disinformation actions, cyber attacks, political and economic pressure, or broadcasting of unmarked armed forces. These countries strengthen their military potential and try to build exclusive spheres of influence through the destabilisation of neighbouring countries and the use of local conflict disputes. Russia is currently fundamentally destabilizing European security architecture, according to the concept of foreign policy of the Czech Republic. And finally. The Security Information Service regularly describes Russian influence activities in its annual reports. For example, in 2015, they dominated the intelligence forces of foreign power operating in the Czech Republic, as well as in previous years the intelligence services of the Russian Federation. The Russian priorities for 2015 were the operations conducted in the context of the information war in the context of the Ukrainian and Syrian crisis, as well as political, scientific and economic intelligence, in particular its efforts to reach Czech and European subsidies through planted Czech people. Despite the ongoing crisis in Ukraine and the tense relations between Russia, on the one hand, and NATO and the European Union, on the other hand, Russia continued its influence activities aimed at maintaining and strengthening Russian positions and prospects in the Czech energy sector. In 2015, Russian activities continued in the field of economic and scientific-technical intelligence in the Czech Republic. In the context of the Ukrainian and then Syrian crisis, Russia generally emphasized influence and information operations in the context of the so-called asymmetric or unconventional war. The Russian priorities for 2016 were influential and intelligence operations conducted under or in support of a hybrid campaign in the context of the Ukrainian and Syrian crisis. However, the role and intensity of Russian intelligence activities in the Czech Republic increased compared to 2015. In the field of classical intelligence collection, it dominated Russia's interests -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u69	Mr. Ambassador, I will have to interrupt you because there is not one minister and Members from the Chamber have brought me to the attention of this fact, so I would also be quite helpful for a short break, but since I have been alerted, I am declaring a three-minute break to give at least one Minister of Government the room to return to us. So I'll meet you here at 15.51.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u70	15.51 hours. We're good to go. We have government ministers here, even two. Member Jan Bartošek. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u71	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm really going to continue at the end. I'll be back in 2016. This year, Russia's priorities were influential and intelligence operations conducted under or in support of a hybrid campaign in the context of the Ukrainian and Syrian crisis. However, the role and intensity of Russian intelligence activities in the Czech Republic increased compared to 2015. In the field of classical intelligence collection, political intelligence dominated Russian interests in the Czech Republic. The Russian intelligence services in the Czech Republic have long-term high-quality networks of information, access and influence contacts, which they have developed further. If you have asked why this commission should be set up, I think I have put a sufficient number of arguments to you here. To a large extent, my speech was inspired, and I quoted publicly available information from the BIS reports. That means I didn't make any of it up. I understand that not all of you have listened to this well, but - and I will agree with some previous speakers - I think that the issue of the security and sovereignty of the Czech Republic should be on our heart no matter what political group we are from, because precisely these inconspicuous ways and methods that I have quoted here lead to a gradual loss of freedom and sovereignty. And our responsibility is that - and we have it in our power - we can define how to defend ourselves and, if necessary, adopt laws that protect the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. I hereby ask you, colleagues, to support the establishment of this committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u72	Mr Jan Birke will now make a point of fact. I've only got one fact here. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes and prepare yourself with the priority right of Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u73	Thank you so much for the floor. Allow me, Mr Vice-President, to make one comment with you on my predecessor, Mr Bartošek, and perhaps one misunderstand, perhaps, an explanation. I'd like to ask him for his reaction. First, the note. As a general rule, I visited China for the first time 23 years ago. Since then, I've lived there for three years, I've got dozens, maybe hundreds of friends. I'll say it, I don't have a problem with it. And I just want to say that maybe it's for the investigative committee, because then I'll get to the bottom of it, I just want to say that when I had the chance and the honour of doing the head of the Prime Minister's Cabinet in 2004, I asked for a security clearance for the secret level and I got it completely without any problems. Including NATO. I just want to say that I have absolute confidence in the Czech security forces. This ad a). A ad b). Please, if a commission is set up, Mr Bartošek, by your means, Mr President, write down immediately as the first Jan Birke investigated, because I will definitely go to China at least three times next year to come and tell you what money I'm going to go there to actually tell you everything, and I'm probably going to go there with my wife and maybe take a child. So in short and well, if I understand that I should either put all my bills on the KDU-ČSL secretariat or everything I have to go to next year, I'm very happy to do it, but put me first on the list. I'd be happy to tell you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u74	Jan Bartošek, President of the KDU-ČSL Chamber of Deputies, is now making a point of fact. Please, your two minutes. And the chairman of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u75	Thank you. From me, there will be only a brief response by you to your colleague, Birke. I don't think this rhetoric was necessary on your part. I have actually quoted here mostly from the BIS reports. And it's not about who's friends and who's going on vacation. We are really talking here about the fact that foreign countries buy through influential people and from the academic sphere, possibly in politics and elsewhere influence and the promotion of their interests. If you've received a background check, there's nothing to talk about. That's not where it was headed. You asked for an explanation, so I'm serving it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u76	Now one more point of fact, Mr Robert králíček. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u77	I'd still respond to Mr. Bartošek. I don't think the contradiction is in the content that there was no need to read the messages here. I think we agree, but I can see the narrow place where we're only talking about the two powers that we're dealing with here, we're not dealing with another one. After all, let's talk about how it affects the Czech Republic of the Hezbollah movement and others. And I personally don't find the form appropriate, as if the committee of inquiry just seems inappropriate to me, politely speaking. Let's talk about this, the permanent committee, let's talk about replacing some other committee, the subcommittee, the form. I don't think anyone disputes the content. We understand each other in terms of content, but the form seems inappropriate to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u78	It's still a matter of fact. Chairman of KDU-ČSL club Jan Bartošek and in general with priority in standard applications then Vojtěch Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u79	There's a motion for a committee of inquiry. The coalition has a majority, which means you have a chance to talk to us, we can find some kind of penetration solution, but feel that we want to deal with this, that we want to deal with cross-cutting political parties. And from my quote, I mentioned, for example, the interests of the Islamic State. For example, the BIS reports mention Iran when I say so. This means, of course, there are more countries, but it is a matter of intensity, how they promote their interests within the Czech Republic. And I am convinced that these reports show that the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China are doing the most intensive work here. That's why I mentioned them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u80	The chair of the KSČM and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will now appear and will be prepared with priority right by the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u81	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, but I did not want to use factual points, because I want to speak a little differently than the debate has been held here so far. The point itself is called the influence of authoritarian regimes on the internal affairs of the Czech political system. Firstly, I do not know any definition in the Czech legal order of what regime is authoritarian, whether they are all kingdoms or whether they are states where presidents have the right to veto parliament. I don't. And we should set it up if that's what we want. [[16.00 hours]] And I'm asking if such an authoritarian regime is, for example, the state of Singapore, where you get a slap on the ground for spit on the top surface. That's right, that's in their legal regime. We even didn't... [[From the diaper: and Iran.]] Yes, Iran. It is certainly a very theocratic regime where the six judges of the Constitutional Court have the greatest influence, as 15 judges of the Constitutional Court in our country can also abolish the constitutional law, such as the dissolution of Parliament, which was adopted here in 2009, but was abolished - for political reasons, because legal reasons did not exist there. So that's one moment. And, on the other hand, don't force me to disprove my legal consciousness, and to proceed against my beliefs and against what I've been following for a long time in politics, and that is Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which has been part of the Czech rule of law since 1977. I'll try to quote him simply: Each nation has the right to its political regime and to exploit its natural wealth. So it is the right of every nation to maintain and formulate its political regime, such as the right of the Czech state, of the Czech nation to create a political regime that we call parliamentary democracy, and so far, despite some excesses in the adoption of constitutional laws, we have managed to maintain the parliamentary system, because, as I mentioned a moment ago, this House's veto can overrule. So don't be mad, the name itself, the wording itself is, in my opinion, covering up the real goal of the petitioners. My colleague Bartošek here probably said the most open thing about what he was up to. He's concerned about the influence the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation have here. I'm asking how much influence the United States of America has here, how many people here who, from ideological, economic or other reasons, will do whatever it takes to get the United States of America and not someone else. We will discuss this when Minister Metnar responds to my interpellation regarding the purchase of helicopters, because I already have information that the Italian company Leonardo has already written to the Office for Competition and contradicts the procedure of the Czech Government in purchasing. And that's no small thing, that's 14.5 billion. in the purchase and it is, of course, a question of service etc. So these are the things we can deal with here. And I do not question, please, the right of the government to act - the government - to buy it for political reasons. But I question the procedure of the Ministry of Defence, which is recording that another competing enterprise in Europe complains with the European Commission that we are disrupting the European market to which the Czech Republic has committed itself as a Member State of the European Union. That's a serious problem. I can also say other things. So forgive me, I am convinced that the form of the committee of inquiry is meaningless for this purpose. Nonsense! And if we want to assess here the state's progress in protecting the sovereign interests of the Czech Republic, I am in favour, I agree with that, but in that case, we probably need to find out what procedures the closest friends and neighbors are doing to us, because information is, of course, one of the most valuable things that is balanced in the present world, and that information is being obtained here by all the surrounding states, all the strong economies, and I don't blame it at all, because it is quite essential for them. And I am convinced that those who speak of sovereignty would be willing to sell that sovereignty to someone else. So I am in favour, but certainly not for the committee of inquiry and certainly not to hide behind, I would say, a general formulation which, in a way, should serve a rather internal political struggle between political parties, not to protect national interests. And you, I will always promote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u82	Now one point of fact - the chairman of the Zbyněk Stanjura Club. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u83	If I come out of our history, the only party represented in the Chamber of Deputies has experience selling out the sovereignty of our country, and that is the Communists. This is only to the brink of how the Communist Party's chairman attacks his opinion opponents. However, in his performance, I was interested in something that we could think about together. I think it's completely absurd for the UOHS to decide on the award of military contracts. It really seems completely absurd to me. You know I'm an opposition politician, and I don't give anything to the government for free, at least I hope I don't give her anything for free, but in this case, I think we'll consider legislation on how to take military technology. I've already said in my first performance that national security should not be the subject of a party fight. And it seems absurd to me, if the government decides to purchase some technique in accordance with the command of the Czech army, that another company, which is not satisfied for commercial reasons, not for reasons of the security of the Czech Republic, complains to the European Commission, and that our ÚOHS may be able to deal with it, it is absurd. And let us consider the legislative environment so that such complaints do not actually stand a chance and no legislative support. It's not normal! This is not the purchase of consumer goods where we have x suppliers and we can discuss whether the length of warranty, price, delivery time or something else is more important. And we ourselves should not question what the Czech army wants, and if the government accepts it and selects suppliers. On the contrary, we have, after years of inactivity with regard to the acquisition of the Czech army, and remember how we repeatedly used to be Minister Stropnický, and as it turns out today, rightly criticised that he had stopped and postponed all acquisitions. And if one acquisition after another has been able to sign these weeks, we have appreciated it and praised the government. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u84	Prime Minister, time! There. Now for the factual remark of Vojtěch Filip and will prepare Jan Bartošek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u85	Thank you. Mr President, by your means to Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. I understand that when he doesn't like something, he remembers the past of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia here, but I note that the KSČM in March 1990 was only created and I represent the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. She did not lend herself to such a thing and always insisted that the Czech Republic was a sovereign state, and members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, its representatives in the municipalities, always respected the Czech rule of law in the regions! We didn't get any scratches like the ODS! And our 30-year history is much better than yours!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u86	Now there are a number of factual points. So first, the chairman of the KDU-ČSL club Jan Bartošek and I'll read those who will be prepared. Member Stanjura, Birke and Jakub Janda. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u87	Thank you. I'm not gonna respond to a gunfight with the Communist Party today, I'm gonna respond in a matter of fact. The Czech Republic needs an investment protection law as salt. This is an absolutely necessary step that the Czech Republic needs, because the critical infrastructure of the state and the critical information infrastructure of the state for the future, and I am convinced, it will not be possible to release, for example, companies that knowingly conduct espionage for their state, which is China. There are other threats, and I expect the Ministry of Industry and Trade to present this law soon, because if we are to build a core, this law needs to be passed. [[16.10 hours]] We really must protect the interests, the national interests of the Czech Republic. And the critical infrastructure of the state, whether it is water, energy, as well as the banking sector, for example, for money laundering, these are all areas that we need to control, and we need to know that we are ruling them, not anyone foreign, and that we are not going to put into critical information infrastructure elements that are going to send data about me, about you, and about you, Mr. Faltýnek, and about people who do, where they move, how they buy, etc., to allow them access to the camera system, etc. Yes, that is indeed the law that we need most to adopt in order to protect national sovereignty and security in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u88	Thank you for your time and now for Mr Jan Birk's factual remark, Jakub Janda will prepare himself, then Vojtěch Munzar. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u89	Thank you so much, I was surprised, I had tech because I assumed she was okay. Thank you so much for the floor. There's one more thing I'd like to comment on. There is no way that I am an expert on the secret services, I am not an expert on foreign policy, and there is a rule that goes with me that I do not understand, and I should not comment on that. So maybe I'm sorry about what I'm saying today. On the other hand, the truth is, it's a little bit of me - why I didn't actually vote yesterday for this point. The reason is very prosaic from my point of view, because in my opinion it is based on two powers, which is on the one hand Russia, on the other hand China and somehow forgotten about the other powers that have their own particular interests. There is a question - probably China is doing it badly with Russia because they are known. Because the others do it well, so they're not known, so they don't talk about them. But don't think, my friends, they don't do that. I don't think anyone in this room thinks that! And now I'm not going to name any other powers or states that might do it better than China or Russia. But there's one thing I won't forget. You know, if I hadn't learned from the newspaper - and mentioned one state, which is Taiwan, which you're talking about - if I hadn't read that some of the representatives of the pirate party, including their wives, flew there - and again I'm drawing from the newspaper, and if that's not true, I apologize to you, fellow pirát - for the money of Taiwan, for the diet of Taiwan, the tickets were paid by wan. Well, I don't know. So I'm just asking you, right after my list of where, when I go to report China next year, you'll have the pirates, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u90	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. [[That's all, thank you.]] Thank you. Now Jakub Janda, then Vojtěch Munzar. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u91	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to you, Mr Vice-President. I don't know if I have to respond to you through you. But you lie to us all the time. You're not a new party. You're still a Communist party. You only transformed into KSČM and KSS on March 31, 1990. Don't lie to us here that you're a new party, because if the killer changes his name, he's still a killer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u92	I can't react that way. Now, then, my colleague Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u93	Thank you. I also want to respond to you, Mr Vice-President. He partially took it from my mouth by a colleague named Janda. Just because someone's name is changed doesn't mean they're gonna forget about 40 years here. And only your last resolution on the European Parliament's decision on the start of World War II only confirms that nothing has changed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u94	Now, Mr Stanjura, then Mr Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u95	I would like to respond to what Mr Birke said. I don't know, I really distinguish between who my ally is, who my partner is, and the others. I don't work here in the area of the intelligence control committee, but I certainly know from open sources, with whom a useful exchange of information takes place. Especially with allies. So I'd like us not to have the public here and say that they're actually all the same. We volunteered to choose our partners, we volunteered to join NATO, they're our partners. We have voluntarily entered the European Union, these are our partners. The countries you talked about at the beginning are not our partners, we do not share with them, we are not with them in any such organization, e.g. collective security, such as NATO. And the difference is important. So let's not distract the debate somewhere else. All of you, or many of you, have said we trust our secret services. Read the public parts of the BIS reports and compare how many paragraphs and words are dedicated to Russia, China and other powers that you have been so secretly talking about here. So either I believe those secret services and I take it seriously and I see who's trying to influence it in the first place - and I have to draw from these sources because I don't - or I don't believe it, and then it's hypocritical to say it, because we all believe in those secret services, so what do you want to do here in the House? So if we trust them, those threats are clearly described in several consecutive annual security information service reports when we translate it for citizens - secret services, to be clear. That's where it's in black and white. And they don't talk about other powers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u96	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Pavel Kováčik also with a factual remark, then a colleague of Zaorálek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u97	Thank you for the floor. Only two details for this debate, which I have already prophetically declared yesterday, will keep us from the topics that are on the table, and the 300 points that await us, we must also work off. Recently, serious media leaked to the public that German Chancellor Merkelová had been followed, her activities, her office, maybe mail, American secret services. But that was an ally, that was perfectly okay, right? And now I would like to respond to what my colleague Janda and colleague Munzar here have done through you, Mr President, when the past is mentioned here. You know, when we say recently in the discussion of that resolution, which the House has recognised that in the wild 1990s there was really injustice and crime and that there was something to be done about it, you said in the debate: but we are not, we are not the ODS godfathers and the mischief of national property, we are the new ODS. Well, it's behind you, too. It's behind you, too. So please nicely, since we're talking about history, ancient or recent or middle-aged, I'd like to say, let's not talk about history, we're not going to change that. Let's talk about whether we're gonna keep talking about things here that somebody can watch the other guy, we're gonna tolerate somebody, and somebody's not gonna be tolerated the way it was here. If the activities of all the powers, of all the foreign countries, are monitored, please, I would be willing to hold this debate here and perhaps even support some resolution. But such a one-sided interpretation, I repeat, I consider politically motivated, purposeful, and in that case no support -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u98	Your time for a point of fact has come to an end, Mr President. Well, thank you. Now, Mr Stanjura, then Mr Skopeček, also with factual remarks. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u99	Just to discuss the famous point that the Communists pushed through with the support of their coalition partners. First of all, read the Prime Minister's reply to the House's resolution, confirming that what they have proposed is complete - as I would say politely, well, nothing - complete crap. Read the letter we all received as Members. And second of all, we're in this debate, and I'd say it was pretty strong, defending the '90s. This was no black period of Czech history, on the contrary. We have defended and we will defend. Yes, the Communists laugh about it because it was a sad time for them, that's true, and that's good. But for the vast majority of our citizens, it was the beginning of freedom. And we have taken the decisive steps you have been talking about - joining NATO, joining the EU, building capitalism if you want, open democracy, free market. And that's what we're gonna defend! And we won't make excuses! It really was no dark period of our history, and vice versa, the dark period ended in November 1989.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u100	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a colleague of Skopeček, then Petr Fiala, then Pavel Kováčik. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u101	Thank you for the floor, but the speaker, Mr. Chairman, said so. Although I was not nearly an adult in the 1990s, I was a child, but I am proud of what the Civil Democratic Party did here in the 1990s, in particular, but not just her, but especially the Civil Democratic Party. A successful transformation, setting up a political system based on the competition of political parties, the end of the government of one party, is a hell of a successful period, and I thank all those who have earned it for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u102	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Vice-President Petr Fiala, then Pavel Kováčik. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u103	I mostly do not have these historical debates or participate in them, but when President Kováčik insists. It pays by the fruit you recognize them. Look at the results. We haven't been here since the '90s, we haven't talked about any new ODS. These are your ideas and are completely pointless, Mr President, through Mr President. And after the fruit, you'll know them. Look what's left of the Communist government for 40 years in this country. Land behind barbed wire, non-free citizens, wasted chances, people in prison, a miserable country, a non-working economy, those are your results! And what remains behind the ODS governments? A prosperous proud country full of free people who do business are active, a country that is a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, which is safe, strong, prosperous. This is the result of our policy! And look what you've done!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u104	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Pavel Kováčik also made a point of fact. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u105	Thank you for the floor. However, I was not talking about political freedoms, I was talking about ODS godfathers, about ODS, a staggered hundred billion national assets that would not be here if it were the way you said it was, Mr Fiala, through the President. That old joke I'm saying sometimes when these debates come up, I guess there's something to it. At least when I'm dating him among the citizens, they're giving me a lot of credit. Well, if it hadn't been forty years of Communist rule, you wouldn't have had the next 30 years to sneak in and rob.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u106	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Pavel Staněk, Leo Luzar, Jan Skopeček and Zbyněk Stanjura. Everyone with factual points. Minister Zaorálek is waiting with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I see that I have made a big mistake in withdrawing my proposal, because the debate on hybrid threats, or whether we will ever vote on the creation of a committee of inquiry in the future, or whether we will end this point and propose another point, as Stanjura mentioned, that, in principle, we can no longer create another committee on this point, so we are simply talking about history, we are talking about time completely empty here. I don't have a position to challenge you, so please, let's discuss hybrid threats where we agree. History interpretation - I note that I grew up before 1989, I remember it, I am not a young man who was still dragging a duck - let's leave it for another time, perhaps a restaurant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u108	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Leo Luzar with a factual remark, then Jan Skopeček and Zbyněk Stanjura. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u109	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't leave me calm when I hear how bad we are, how untransformable we are and how untransformed we are. I would like to point out that the KSČM has learned from its mistakes, has changed. Yes, there are a lot of members among us who have a pre-November history in the Czech Republic, and I would also like to point out that after November the KSČ remained as a separate political party in the political spectrum against the younger. In other words, there's a KSČ and a KSČM that's changed. And I also want to say, if you look at the 40 years after us that were here, how many power plants were built here, the dams, how many cities were built here. How many things have been built here in your system over the past 30 years? How many new things have been built here? Even the D1 was built 89 years ago and we're trying to fix it a little bit after 30 years! Let's just remember that it's been 30 years, that there's a minimum difference between the time of governance that has succeeded in 40 years that has succeeded in 30 years. Put it on a bowl of scales, and then judge what happened. And whether it was barbed wire or not. Yes, the citizens remember, they lived here. They then vote according to their will and experience. But let's remember what time we are today, and when we get back to this, let's really judge right and put it on those scales. And as for the current debate, let's get it back to reality. Yes, there have been proposals here to address the influence of other powers of Czech politics. I fully agree with that. And then let's go back to that, but really seriously, and let's not focus on the powers that are appropriate to us right now, but let's talk about those who also have that influence here and who stay a little bit on the side. I'm gonna sign up one more time to carry on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u110	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jan Skopeček now. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u111	So while we were on the brink of economic maturity 30 years ago, over the past 30 years, we have succeeded in catching up and even skipping over some of the economies of developed Western Europe - Spain, Greece, Portugal. This has succeeded in catching up with these rich countries over the past 30 years. Who would have thought that 30 years ago that we would have compared ourselves to the most advanced countries in Europe? And to your foreman. You guys can talk about the godfathers of corruption. Very nice. But behind your ideology, they're dead. And I think it's worse after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u112	Well, let's continue with the factual notes. Mr. colleague Vojtěch Munzar, then Pavel Žáček, Leo Luzar, Pavel Kováčik. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u113	Thank you. I will respond to my colleague Staněk's request, and I will do this for the last time, but it will not allow me to respond to my colleague Luzar. So here in one sentence we hear "we're the other side, we've learned, we're someone else," and in the other sentence we hear "look what's left of us after 40 years." Take your pick!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u114	Now, Mr Pavel Žáček, with a factual remark. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u115	Thank you for the floor. I have been in control for a long time, but I consider it absolute insolence that has been expressed here by the representatives of the Communist Party. It's absolutely outrageous. I think that the Communist Party today is not connected to the previous one before 1989, nor do they. The communist regime that was here wasn't worth one dead man who was murdered, executed, and so on. I think that the Fifth Column, which is not only defending its past and the past of its members, but also Russia's policy, shows quite clearly that in some form, in some form, it does not necessarily have to be that committee of inquiry, we need this committee to connect the past with what is affecting us today, and I think that the session is quite obvious from what has been said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u116	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Leo Luzar with a factual remark, then Pavel Kováčik. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u117	Thank you for the floor. It won't give me a response to the challenge. So let's say, let's say, what about the thirty years, yes, our members who lived here before 89 years and were members of the KSČ, now they are members of the KSČM, and again note that there is also a political party of the KSČ, even today a registered political party, which is considered to be an ideal follower of the pre-November KSČ. That's right, and young people should look at it too and not put us together in a sack. Yes, we're proud of the fact that our members, the ordinary members, built two nuclear power plants here. In 30 years, we have the basics for the next position, the selected locations. How many nuclear power plants, if we're talking about them, or how we're in the process of completion, at least building more blocks? Let's talk about other facilities and constructions. Yes, it was called youth construction. The whole town stood up. But it's not about the point we're discussing today. I'd like to return it to the hybrid threats here, because that's the basis of today's debate. Let us take the ideology aside and discuss how foreign services affect Czech politics. On the one hand, we're talking about China, Russia. We're asked to justify the ways and who we've met. Senator Fischer asks the municipal council members who went to their partner cities in China because they have a partnership concluded - not for us, I warn you, the partnership was concluded as mayors of the ODS and so on, they went there for a social visit - he requires lists and lists, and precisely so that he can defy them that they were in China at all, and he asks for these lists according to the hundred and six. We have come so far into this policy that the Senate is trying to influence foreign policy here. And in a way, we're here to further develop this witch hunt. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u118	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. Now the factual comment by Pavel Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u119	Thank you for the floor. I almost want to join my colleague Staňek, because it's really beyond a decent edge, which is why I'm performing for the last time in this debate. Who would have thought, it was said here in front of me that it would be so astronomically expensive to live here, that there would be a million people in executions. So, speaking of the success stories, let's add these things to them. But that's what we're here to reduce these threats, too, to serve people, not to argue about the things we're arguing about today. It's not possible. I do not think we should continue this barren debate. Please, let us end the debate and either interrupt or vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u120	Thank you. I don't think that's gonna work out, even though you've kept time to make a point of fact, my colleague. But now, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, then Mrs Němcová, Mrs Jiránek, Ms Stanjura and Mrs Leo Luzar. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u121	Well, thank you, Mr President. I've only had a short time. I would like to ask the honourable House, I respect everyone's right to his opinion, but please, let us go back to the debate. I don't care what was here 30 years ago. Please tell me somewhere else. Here are the students who are waiting for graduation what's going to happen. Please, let's get back to the subject, let's vote it out, and let's focus on the next points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u122	Thank you. Now, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, with a point of fact, then Martin Jiránek and colleague Stanjura. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u123	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to what has been said here by representatives of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia about how they are already the other Communist Party. Then allow a few facts to be mentioned here. I think it was in 2012, when the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia organized an exhibition at its headquarters that is singing North Korea's achievements. President Filip wrote to the representatives of the North Korean state when Kim Čong-Il died, saying what an amazing leader he was, an indisputable authority, and there was no mention of those concentration camps and hundreds of thousands of dead people in this country. I also remember when Mr Dolejš's assistant at the time wrote on his Facebook about how all right-wing entrepreneurs should be hanging around our cities - I think that was in 2014 or 2015. I remember how KSČM President Vojtěch Filip was reluctant to call the occupation of 1968 an occupation and to call it a disgrace the invitation letter of the communists who invited the occupations to our country. I remember Marta Semelová talking about it in 2015 or 2014, it doesn't matter, but it was a few years ago, about the fact that Milada Horáková did it herself, she confessed to everything. So let's just know how it's completely changed and the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has been cut off from its past.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u124	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Martin Jiránek, will prepare Zbyněk Stanjura and Leo Luzar. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u125	Good evening, colleagues. I don't want to touch anyone, but this is really scary. Yesterday, half, maybe three quarters of an hour in our parental allowance, we were dealing with the ballistic vest of police officers. We're dealing with the past here today. I understand that there's a need to settle this in some way, but why do you have to deal with it like this? But it's scary. My colleague Staněk and I were in Berlin a month ago. We've been there all week on the Internet Government Forum, where hybrid threats, experts from America, China, Russia, Japan, and so on. there they all spoke openly about the fact that great powers have some interests, do some, say, pressures, and direct their activities, for example, to small states, a lot to Europe. Those experts from Europe called for us to work very closely within Europe on this. And we're talking about what anybody ever did or didn't do 30 years ago. Please, let's focus on the subject. It's an important subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u126	I thank Mr Martin Jiránek, who acted on a factual point. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura now, then Leo Luzar. Both with a factual remark. And still awaiting Minister of Culture with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u127	I have to say, I'm sorry about the words of a fellow pirate party. Those who don't learn from the past will repeat mistakes. If you don't see the connection between hybrid threats and totalitarian systems, those that were repeated 30, 40 years ago, and they support today, I'm sorry. We just see the connection. The debate was brought to the past by the chair of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, at the same time as the meeting. But we must correct his fairy tales. I feel it's an obligation to all those who suffered in that regime. If this is delaying you, I am sorry, but I consider this debate extremely necessary and extremely valuable. And about that debate, the KSČ - KSČM. I don't give a damn about comrades fighting. Who's the bigger comrade, who's the smaller comrade. Who was the bigger Bolshevik, who was the smaller. You've always been the master. We don't care about that. And by the way. If you had nothing to do with the pre-November Bolsheviks, who kept the property?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u128	There. Now, Mr Leo Luzar and then Mr Pavel Žáček, the last one registered with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u129	One of the first laws of the post-November was about the transfer of the assets of the KSČ to the people of this republic. So the property was given to this people. After 1989, she built a new political party from the membership contributions of the KSČ. It's just a quick reminiscence. I would really like to go back to the hybrid threats and the problems that, yes, the whole world is experiencing. So let's say how it came about, let's say what's at the beginning. And if this commission, which should arise, I understand that part of this debate should be an incentive to create an investigative commission investigating the penetration of foreign interests, and now there is a word of totalitarian regimes, I think that here we will only think about the word totalitarian, because I absolutely believe that the interests of powers in general are being enforced in this territory of the Czech Republic. Some may be considered less dangerous at the moment, some may be considered more dangerous at the moment. We can have fun - and Saudi Arabia has already been mentioned here, I would like to add Israel, which has quite a significant influence in this Chamber through its most numerous group of friends, and we have recently witnessed quite an interesting discussion about the memorandum, or some report that has been presented here when the representatives of this group have admitted themselves to being motivated and influenced from this state. Let's talk about how far these influences are being promoted in the Czech Republic. Because it is not only an influence, it is not only the influence of China and Russia, but it is also the influence of other states that are interested in our policy, because we are still at the heart of Europe, and there is a system that is trying to get Europe somewhere where we might not like it. And it's not just from the east. We have to admit that. The influence also comes from the West and also from the Middle East. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u130	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mr Pavel žáček, then Mrs Langšádlová, with factual remarks. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u131	Thank you for the floor. I would turn to our younger colleagues who do not have the experience, do not remember it and think that the regime before 1989 was some kind of democratic or comparable to what is being discussed in the West again today. Unfortunately, I think we will hold this discussion until the last KSČM Member sits here. I'm bohužel so. That's it. If you think it's normal that representatives of the Communist parties sit in a democratic country in the Chamber of Deputies, that's not normal. And they're forcing us into this discussion. It's part of our deal with the past, it's the political dimension. And when we defeat them politically, we will only enter the phase that we can talk about and act as if there was no communist regime. I think it's a disgrace to all of us. And the dead turn in their graves if we see it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u132	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mrs Langšádlová and then Mr Jiří Dolejš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u133	Thank you for the floor. I only react very quickly. The fact that we are talking about Russia and China in particular is because our services have assessed them as the greatest risk. Yes, for example, I am in a group of friends of Israel. Yeah, I'm sure the Ital who were trying to get jobs are pushing their economic interests here, but please, that's completely different. Here are two powers that threaten our democratic constitutional system. Why? Because Russia has never agreed to lose its sphere of interest. Look at the internal discussions in this country. They're misinterpreting history. They continue to view us as the sphere of their influence, and they are doing everything for it, precisely the decay that you're putting on here beautifully, to decompose us and to return to those positions even in this region in which we live. And I think that's the thing we always have to defend. And China? Yes, it's a different story, it's a long story. And I would like to say that I personally have nothing against the Číňan and the Rus, but the system is undemocratic. And China is expanding, expanding significantly the sphere of its economic influence, no doubt. But at the same time, it's a country where political opponents are executed and their organs are taken away from them. And I think we should be very careful about how their influence is increasing not only across Europe, but also in other parts of the world. We could talk about Africa, South America, Central Asia. In short, where we look, they buy critical infrastructure, increase their influence. It's nothing against the Číňan, the Rus, but please let's be very careful about what our intelligence services are telling us -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u134	And your time for a point of fact is over. Now a factual point, and I hope last, Jiří Dolejš. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u135	I'd also like it to be the last. Perhaps I will not be able to arouse some bearers of similar or other factual remarks. When I listened to the debate about an hour ago - as old as I am, naive - I got a little bit of hope in me, because here it was said that after the general debate, the whole negotiation would be interrupted, with so many ideas that we would have something to think about over the holidays, and the second time we meet, we would think about the problem that objectively exists. The problem, without being somehow skewed in any political or geopolitical direction, exists that there are simply the hybrid threats that it is a contribution to development, because we live in an information society, and that was not before. There are social networks here, they're just here within the scope of freedom of information, different obscure websites and so on. Well, then we have to deal with it. So let's think about it, let's think about it as a key issue, maybe this committee of inquiry isn't the right one, so let's try to get this parliamentary activity professionally so that it'll set up an institution that understands this and says something reasonable, and let's not worry about it for God's sake anymore. Otherwise, if you want to measure who's the bigger friend of the godfathers and who's the bigger former Bolshevik, it doesn't seem very beneficial to me. And especially in that adventure time. Otherwise, to my colleague The Germans through the President, if I may, the case of my assistant. You may not remember, my memory isn't what it used to be, but then it was discovered that it was by hacking his account. To be honest, a co-worker who wants to hang people for doing business, I'd be out in one minute. In one minute! And since he found out he didn't do anything like that, I didn't have to fire him, even though today, the truth is, he's not my assistant because he's got a better job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u136	Your time is done, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact. Now, with priority rights, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. And before I give him my word, I'll read the apologies I've received, and I've been saving them now to calm down. Madam Secretary and Vice-President of the Government of Alena Schillerová until the end of the day, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg due to a doctor's visit within 19 hours, Jiří Bláha from 16 to 19 hours and Mr Čižinský from 15.30 to the end of the day and from 15 hours Helena Válková for work reasons. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u137	Thank you. Have a nice evening, dear colleagues. In fact, I was indirectly invited to speak, or even directly, so I decided to interfere with the debate with my position. Also because I think that when we evaluate the thirty years, which is often happening now, it is true that if the situation has clearly deteriorated in some area over the thirty years, it is foreign policy. After 30 years of November 1989, the world situation is clearly worse than it was then. So it is actually possible to ask a question also in the Czech Republic, how come when we entered the European Union and the Alliance, how come when we, in the words of Ludvík Vaculík, caught the bull by the horns, why it keeps kicking us in the ass. So, in fact, we still feel that the situation in the world is not simple, and maybe it is not easy for us either. The question is whether we want to better understand the situation in the world and why we don't seem to know if the topics that are being chosen here are the ones that allow us to get further and more to understand the situation. I myself am the one who works very well with our services, and yet I do not think that their reports would be a complete key to me understanding what is happening in the world today. It's like there's an idea here that when the questions that are linked to the commission's work are answered, it'll give us some fundamental insight and we'll understand what's around us better. I'm not sure about that. And I might try to insinuate in my performance why I think it's more complicated than that. I do not want to speak to the House in any way into its work and in its decision whether the Commission, I think, is the sovereignty of Parliament. [[Nesroz.]] But I would like to say something about it, and it's not easy for me, because even though I like to talk about foreign policy, I often feel that it's very difficult. And that it's hard for a person to be understood correctly and not to be suspected of something. Although I would like to say that I, too, am actually the one who would like to take advantage of the fact that he lives in a free country, trying to rely on the true facts that I will verify, trying to interpret them correctly and formulate from what is the interest of the country in which I live. I think that's the way out. The problem is that one often feels that some people are running away from some of the facts and do not want to see them. And that's what happens when you talk about them, and I hit them. I, too, have said things here in the past that haven't been heard with enthusiasm, and I have been, I don't want to complain because I think it's basically still a correct environment - but it wasn't easy to talk about them. For example, the last time I spoke not so long ago that I didn't understand the meaning of our stay in Afghanistan. I'll tell you that a week ago, there was an article published in the Washington Post, perhaps you know, that article published an extensive report by Craigo Whitlock on the results of the United States Inspector General's Office's project on Afghanistan, which was supposed to identify the mistakes that the US made and should avoid in the future. Let me just say very briefly some of the conclusions that are-- they're not really that surprising. The things that are there, we've more or less all of us watching, hearing and knowing. [[16.50 hours]] Military command has not been able to define who we are fighting and why in Afghanistan. Was she Al Qaeda's enemy or Taliban? Was Pakistan an ally or an opponent? What to do with the Islamic State and the diverse foreign jihadists, the non-speakers of field commanders in Afghanistan supported by SIA? In combat operations, it was impossible to distinguish friends from enemies. The study I'm talking about cost $11 million. It has been developed on the basis of interviews with hundreds of experts and experts involved in this conflict. And he says that as far as it wasn't often possible to distinguish who we were fighting, it wasn't easy with friends that we had defined somehow. They were mostly corrupt, President Karzáí's government was organized by kleptocracy, much of American aid ends in corrupt coves, corruption undermines the legitimacy of the Afghan government. As far as the fighting power of the Afghan army and the police is concerned, there is a consensus that they are unable to resist and win over the Tálibán. One testimony - the result that we recruited a third of the drug addicts in Afghan politics, a third of the Taliban. Earth is sinking into chaos. Opium production is growing all the time. In 2018, Afghanistan accounted for 82 percent of the world's production - under our supervision. $9 billion. How we were connected to this, don't even ask. The conclusion written by the Inspector General is: We lied to the American people all the time. Like the Maďar said - we lied to him tonight, we lied to him this afternoon, we lied to him all day. There's talk of how intelligence reports were forged. In what way was spoken of the victories that did not exist at all. I repeat, this is a report that was not meant to be public, but which Washington Post has provided and published. It's been about a week, you can check it out. Nobody's questioning the facts that are there today. They're just true. It says here -- you've been talking all along about how we're all gonna trust each other -- how you're reacting now to the fact that it says here -- we've been lying to each other all along, and it's been faking incredibly. In the debates that I myself have been in, I have often encountered numbers that I have found difficult to oppose. Of course. Now it turns out she was made up, which is why it was so hard to argue with. You say we have an ally. I'm a guy who likes America, I like to go there, I love America. But I'm thinking, like Platón says, I like the truth better than lying to myself here. We have an autistic foreign policy today, if I say so gently, American politics is autistic. It's hard to deal with an autistic. It's just reality. The people I dealt with yesterday are no longer there. The experts who were there are no longer there. So what are we going to tell each other is that we have an ally? I am also an ally of the fact that we are in the Alliance and the EU. But I'm not gonna lie to myself that everything's okay. Recently, the French president said that NATO suffered a stroke. Just to be clear, I interviewed Figaro and President Macron. I said that his speech and his performance were basically something that was stressing our legs so you wouldn't think I was excited about it. I'm not saying this because I want to attack someone. I'm only telling you this because - let's tell each other the truth. And what I'm telling you is facts you can all read. So this is the story of Afghanistan that we haven't even closed properly in this House. You understand that I've been talking about this for years, and if you look back at what I said, then when I simplify it, I keep saying, "What in God's name are we doing there?" I don't understand for myself what the point of this action is, what we want to achieve. I don't want to blame anyone for what he said to me back then, that's stupid, and it shouldn't be done like that. I suggest you read a very good Polish writer Wojciech Jagielske Prayer for rain at vánoce. It's a beautiful book about Afghanistan. And you'll actually find the answers to how it's possible that this happened at all, and what happened. Twenty years. It cost a trillion dollars. And Usáma Bin Ládin at the bottom of the ocean laughs, my friends. I'm afraid he's laughing. I'm imagining it when he sees the money that's been spent there. How much did we lose on it? And today we're complaining that China is building its Belt and Road Initiative. But that Belt and Road is a third of the money we spent in Afghanistan. Completely useless and in vain. You see, let's not say that the Číňan are active today and that it bothers us how they penetrate those countries. We could have pierced three times as much for that money as they did, but we made this up. You see, I'm not criticizing it just because I have a need to criticize it, I'm criticizing it, because I see the wasted option of the West, which I belong to, and which I wanted us to belong to. So I don't want to attack anyone here in this House because I know that the truth is hard and that it's hard to look for in this world, and I know how much it costs me to read to learn a little bit about it. So I'm not mad at anyone, and I don't want anyone to feel attacked by what I'm saying. I'm just feeling the need to say things that I have to deal with myself, and I'm telling you, if you believe that I'm telling the truth, let's deal with it together. With the fact that today and our allies, everything isn't entirely ideal. I wish we had them. And we'll have them tomorrow? Who knows? What do we do in this world? And when you ask where the threats are, there's a simple answer to that. It seems to me that the greatest threat is, of course, in ourselves, in our inability to talk about it in some way precisely and rationally. I'm not sure, you understand, the solution is to find some great enemy there. I wouldn't be so afraid of any of them if I knew that we ourselves were capable of some resistance because we were able to reach an agreement in this country. And now China - if I have time and you listen, I'll tell you what I think about China. [[With a smile.]] China. I've said it somewhere before, so I'm sorry who's heard it from me, but it's something that still remains in my head as a basic thing in relation to China. I met - I had an hour's debate with the 14th Tibetan Dalai Lama. And the main thing he said and what I really followed -- he said, "Please, for God's sake, talk to them. Talk to them. They're not all the same. Even in that politbury, they told him how different each one of them is. Don't believe they're all as one. What I feel today is that it's written in this country, there's a book on the art of war, and it's said that the Číňan are the ones who are just pretending and preparing for revenge. I'll find that in nine articles out of ten I'm reading now. These are the Číňan, pretending, lying and preparing revenge. Well, I'm telling you against it -- I think this is what it is when I overdo it, almost racist. The 1.3 billion people are an unimaginable variety of races, ethnicity, opinions. And while I know that China is not well today, I know that I am not today, I know that what is happening in China today, in recent years, is also disappointing for me that it is acting repressively, that it promotes iliberal policies, that it prohibits free speech, that it prohibits those internal religious minorities or restricts their lives in a very brutal way. I know that it intensifies political control, economic control of the state, or the state economy that it is trying to control more and more at home, I know that it is becoming more assertive abroad. To some extent, I experienced the rising assertiveness when I ended up as Secretary of State, so I was surprised by the way China's attitude changes in these negotiations, so I saw it myself. So that's not what I'm questioning, but I'm still going to let you say something that no one here is saying, and I'm going to try to have a slightly different perspective on what everyone here is repeating - or not all of them, but let's say part of those statements. Let me tell you, today's China, when I look at the passing of time in recent decades, is a huge improvement for me. I think it was 1957 when Mao Tung performed and said it was necessary to avoid a nuclear war if necessary. Mao Tung spoke of the need to have a nuclear war against imperialism. And if half of humanity dies, it will be good, because the other half will be socialist. And I'll find you a whole series of statements like that. That was just scary, what China represented back then. [[17,00 hours]] When you look at what China was in the '50s or the '70s, and when you look at what it is today, it seems almost unbelievable. And in spite of what I'm saying, it's been going on in the last few years. I'm just going to document this quite simply. Imagine that China today is a country that hasn't waged a war since 1979, which hasn't used a lethal military... She hasn't used any weapons against a foreign country since 1988. China has not supported any military militants anywhere in the world since 1980. It is a country that has a record of non-intervention among all the great world countries that China has a record that is the one that does not intervene anywhere in the world for the longest time. [[unintelligible]] I don't know if you know that he has the largest amount of peacekeepers as soldiers in the world. He's got 2,500. If our soldiers go to Mali in Africa, I don't know if you know they'll be there next to the Číňan and they'll be there with the Číňan. China is the country that today is the second largest donor of the United Nations. China is a country that has... its peacekeeping program is actually the biggest. In fact, to a certain extent, she replaces the United States, which we are not always happy about, for example, in the area of human rights, which is a paradox, because they have stepped out of it. It provides funds where America has stopped giving them. If you look at it, it's... I say this because if you compare China with the '70s or the '60s, no one would believe that China would become a country that would act this actively and positively in the world. Consider that China is our ally in the fight against climate change, in the fight against... on a number of major international topics, so when you meet with the Chinese, you have four big topics that you can discuss, because it is our common topic on which China agrees with us. China is not a country that is trying to influence elections somewhere. She just doesn't care. She doesn't have ambition with services and similar change political systems in the world. I'm saying this here as a paradox, because it sounds like we're here today to make a committee where we agree that this is the biggest threat. And what I'm saying here is that you can run a whole lot of advocatus diaboli, that this country, which I'm saying today, isn't developing the way we would like it to be, because we all thought it would be more democratic, but it isn't. This country, which may not even be a state, maybe we're wrong, it's a civilization rather than a state, it's a specific civilization. I don't want to apologize for what's going on in there, but I just want to explain that China is pretending to be a state. She's a lot more civilizations. And now I'm getting closer to something I think, something I care about to be heard here. You know, it's awfully tricky to think that when I read the articles that we're entering the Cold War with China, so when this is easy to write in the paper, I feel like it's dangerous because those who write it don't realize that the Cold War with China is fundamentally different from the Cold War with the Soviet Union. You know why? Because the Soviet Union has never had such power, such influence, such technology and such a country with 1.3 million, as China has today. [[billions]] The Soviet Union has never been a civilization of such scale and weight as China. If it really is true that we are going to the Cold War with China, I assure you one thing is that it will be a war far longer and with far greater costs than the one that happily ended with Gorbačov. Anyone who talks so easily about the Cold War with China should begin to realize what they are talking about. In China, it will never turn out the way it did in Russia or the Soviet Union. That's my prognosis. Because everyone imagines it's going to be the same thing. We end up arming them, tying them up, and all that. But it's not like that, my friends. The Soviet Union has never been in such a condition as China is today. No way. It has never been so that today China is ahead of us in a certain area of technology. No way. Russia hasn't even come close to this. As China truly represents something that is... That's why I said it was civilization, that it wasn't a state. He has confidence that even Russia did not have with all its glory the Great Patriotic War. Because the Číňan are convinced that they are a thousand-year-old civilization that only took a moment's breath on this planet and returns to the original position that belongs to it. And it's like her movement is happening in time, which seems to be working a little differently than ours. She'll just wait. Because when you visit China, it's different from the Soviet Union, which I didn't get to know so well, but I kind of have an idea of what it was like. China is hundreds of millions of people whose lives have improved incredibly in recent years. Socialism never knew what happened in China. Guterres, President of the United Nations on one where I was, said that if hundreds of millions were lifted from poverty on this planet in the last 15 years, it was primarily and fundamentally only because of China. [[unintelligible]] She did it. Raise hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. Yes, China is all that has been said here several times. And we condemn and criticize things that we don't like. But at the same time, the other thing is true. And when you talk about how China is snooping around and how you have your services... I'll tell you one thing because I don't want to talk long. Did you know that in the '90s, China in the United States ordered boeings from Američan for the president? The United States delivered the boeings. And after a while, the Číňan were surprised to find that they were completely pierced by a very complicated listening device. That was a very hard lesson for the Číňan to do business with. So let's say we also know the other side of the truth. It's not so hard to show that what the Číňan are doing today, we basically taught them. I mean, not we Čech, of course, but the západ taught them that. The West taught them that he treated them like someone he didn't trust. And, of course, the Číňan know that we don't trust them and that we obviously don't have good intentions for them. And what the Dalai Lama said was that at all costs we must prevent escalation and confrontation. The reasons are clear - because we are unable to oversee the consequences of the confrontation. I think she'd be more serious than anything we've ever known. You see, I don't want to be cowardly, and I don't want to dodge, nor do I want to apologize for what's happening in China and what we criticize rightly. I want to draw your attention to the fact that if we escalate the situation by doing what we're doing, we're just going to approach what Allison in his great book called Thúkydide's trap, which you've probably all heard of. Thúkýdidůvýdid's trap means that on this planet there is repeated situations in which the hegemonic power, which was the strongest, slowly drops and declines, and the new one is emerging. And this situation, supposedly, I'm not gonna tell you exactly, but it's like four out of five cases leading to a war. It's been happening since old Greece. The conflict, which is one of the first, was the conflict between Sparta and Athens. And then he was not even a fine statesman, Periklés, who knew it was wrong to go into military conflict with Sparta. He knew, and he couldn't stop it. Because the logic of these events, once you fall into that trap, they won't let you go back. So even the famous Perikles didn't get out of it when he got into that spiral of escalating confrontation between the power that grows and the one that feels threatened by it. And this situation, as Allison describes, has happened countless times. And in the vast majority of cases, it leads to war. That means, what's serious is that if we approach as a Czech, that we will also help this escalation, let's actually realize where we're leading the world. I said in the beginning, my friends, that in those 30 years, if anything got worse, it was the foreign policy situation of this world. And I must tell you that we, unfortunately, contributed to this as the Czech Republic. That's what's bothering me. I wish the Czech Republic was a country trying to face it. For example, a country that promotes multilateralism. If I had the opportunity to meet Barack Obama, I always thanked him for doing multilateral politics and promoting it. But, my friends, in fact, as the Czech Republic, we pushed for the unilateral moment of the United States to become an era of unipolarity. I mean, when we supported the intervention in Iraq in 2003. [[unintelligible]] For example, when the Czech Republic was among those who signed to intervene in Iraq. [[17.10 hours]] At the time, we supported the idea that the United States should act like a hegemon, and I think we supported a certain way of thinking and, finally, Donald Trump today! You know how we supported Donald Trump? That in 2003, we agreed to join those who lied! Who lied about the reasons for going to Iraq. And if you yourself are using a lie as a tool to defend your actions, don't be surprised that you have a 100% liar there as president! Just don't think we weren't involved. On the contrary, when we were to oppose this type of policy, we supported it! I would like the Czech Republic to support a policy that does not put the world into disaster. So we can recognize this. I know what I'm saying is that it's too much and it's not easy to know. But I'm trying to at least suggest to you that finding and creating a good foreign policy that really is in this country's interests and which will help us avoid the worst, I'm afraid, with all due respect for the secret services, their records won't help us completely. You know, these services have a purpose, but it's kind of like a tool, like something you work with. But to interpret it and make it into a foreign policy that is really in the interests of this country, which takes into account all the facts, even those that we don't like, which are uncomfortable, to cope with really, as they do in the Washington Post, that we have to deal with the mistakes we have made, and that we have been lying to each other, and that even those services have been lying to us - it is written there that the services have simply lied! [[He speaks loudly, strongly.]] I'd like it not to be true, but that's where it is! So you say, "We believe in our services." I also trust Mr Koudelka, I trust Mr Beroun, because I have worked with them for a long time. But say, "I'm gonna trust everyone here"? We can't do that - the point is that everything here has to be criticized and everything has to be subject to a realistic assessment of the facts. And I'm just worried that this committee, with the narrow focus it has, doesn't really have to help at all what we want, really, Czech foreign policy, a state that rationally considers its options and takes reasonable steps to help stabilize Europe, its situation, and perhaps the end of the world. That's what I think is more complicated than that, and that this closely-focused committee isn't going to do what she's probably taken. The idea of uncovering one fundamental threat, we find in this country those who are bringing the threat - don't be angry, it's such a naive idea for me how we're going to solve our problems in this country. Or how we find the truth. The road is more complicated. And I don't want to stop anyone from examining what's important to him. I'm not really questioning anyone here or anyone. I'm just pointing out that foreign policy seems to me to be a more difficult discipline. Interpretation of a far greater number of facts, the ability not to lie and consider the mistakes we have made and try not to repeat them. And don't fall into the same unilateralities as I've been hearing them around here lately. So it's obvious that what I said here might not be completely understandable because I said too much. But I meant it for the government as a contribution to setting up a committee here to deal with only two problems. I see a lot more of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u138	I thank the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Before we proceed with Mrs Langšádlová's factual remark, Mr Bžoch votes with a replacement card number 20. You have the floor on a point of fact, prepared with Radim Fiala's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u139	Dear Minister of Culture, that was a very interesting thought. I'm sure there's a lot of information on your part. Nevertheless, I would very much welcome and expect you to speak for the Government of the Czech Republic, as you have also been invited to do, and assure us that the Czech Government is doing in the field of the fight against hybrid threats as defined by the intelligence services that you have been talking about and will act and that it will fully fulfill what is not fully implemented at the moment, which means valid and accepted documents adopted by the Government of the Czech Republic, that is to say, the audit of national security and security documents that address this issue. And we really have documents that solve this. And not all the points in these government documents are being filled out at this point. And I, Minister, would really appreciate it more if you would assure us that this will be the case and that you, as members of the Government, want to cooperate with the Chamber of Deputies and with the Members of Parliament to fulfil and strengthen our resilience. Indeed, much of what has been said here is true. I know that this is very complicated and complex, all of this, but unfortunately some of the things I consider, because you were primarily concerned with the China you were talking about as if some were not mentioned, and that is a question for example. The link between all Chinese companies that operate here and their intelligence services, because that's how they're regulated by the law. Indeed, the link between business and intelligence activities is quite obvious in China. And maybe that's not what you're talking about, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u140	Thank you for keeping time. Now with Radim Fiala's priority right. Co-worker Kobza will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u141	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must congratulate Minister Zaorálek on the fact that - at least I had such a feeling - he was able to name some things as I felt the same way. I suppose it's probably because he's been in politics for years, and the experience he's been through is very hard to replace with something else, to study or something. So, Minister, thank you. I'm performing mainly to tell you how the SPD's attitude towards this investigation committee is and why. We briefly said that at a press conference, but just to be clear. We have not voted in favour of this point, and we are not likely to vote in favour of setting up that committee of inquiry. It's partly consistent with what Minister Zaorálek said here. It's a very closely-focused committee. If we want to investigate the activities of authoritarian regimes that can harm the Czech Republic and citizens of the Czech Republic, then we lack countries such as the Czech Republic. Saudi Arabia or the current regime in Turkey. Secondly, why we didn't vote in favour of the inclusion and we probably won't vote in favour of the commission is that we really think that the Czech Republic has secret services, whether someone believes them or not, they have to- they can't, but they have to investigate the activities of the states they want, they have an interest in whether they are economically or politically active in the Czech Republic. And we also have law enforcement agencies that have to act if they get the initiative. And third of all, we feel like it's more about raising some kind of political issue. I don't want to say the political hysteria that should take the House away from work. After all, we've heard here that the students are waiting for graduation, and we're talking about maybe a 30-year-old past, and the whole thing reminds us of a situation in the United States where President Trump's supposedly elected presidential election was influenced by Russia. [[17.20 hours]] The initiative to set up a commission to investigate the influence of Russia and China is nothing new under the sun. It's a distraction from our country's real problems. It is based, in my opinion, on similar historical hunts, as was Robespierrův's Committee on Public Welfare, Stalinův's theory of sharpening class struggles, communist troikas and fives in the 1950s, or the Committee on Non-American Activities in the United States of America. Program political despair is always reflected in the tendency to seek the enemy of both internal and external. I am no admirer of the system of Russia and China, they are countries different by their political culture and we cannot expect similar models of a political system based on European tradition. After all, I do not think that Russia and China are interested in exporting their political system to the Czech Republic. Both countries are global powers and undoubtedly also project their security and economic interests into the Czech Republic. So do other geopolitical players. That's no reason for any hysteria. It is a reason for services in the Czech Republic to monitor and analyse this condition. It is in grave conflict with our country's interests to make an enemy of both countries. China's influence on world events is growing, and it will soon become an economic and technological leader. In my opinion, substantive trade relations and a factual dialogue with this country are in the deep interest of the Czech Republic. For example, neighbouring Germany considers China to be a strategic partner, where it exports the finished products consisting of components that are manufactured in the Czech Republic. Logically, the Němec are interested in their good relations with China and are not interested in supporting our country's position in China. Germany is building the Nord Stream 2 pipeline and will soon become a major distributor of natural gas from Russia. I will not be surprised if we build capacity to burn this gas instead of the capacity of modern nuclear power. If you understand me, I will not be surprised if, for example, the European Union does not allow us to build two blocks of new nuclear power plant, but tells us to distribute through Germany, buy Russian gas from Germany. If we want to take care of the security of the Czech Republic and deal with the influence of authoritarian regimes, let us deal with Saudi Arabia and its support for the penetration of radical Islam into Europe. We have evidence that this is a real problem, we have in every larger Christmas market where barriers are to protect us from Islamic fanatics. Let's stop being ignorant assholes in foreign interests and foreign political games. Let us put the interest of the Czech Republic first. Let us not humiliate ourselves in front of anyone, and certainly not in front of Russia and China. Let us treat them with mutual respect, trade and not fall into the hysteria that spreads here. Soon we can end up looking for an internal and external enemy. I'm a little worried that this is happening in some cases. We'll watch who put the doughnut on the street or who took the photo with Okamura and we'll look for Rus and Číňan under every bed. I ask this House: Do we have anything better to do? If we do, let's recommend a glass of lukewarm water to political hysteria and get our work done for the citizens. Once again, I want to say here that we will not support the creation of this committee of inquiry and we will not vote for it for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u142	I thank Mr Radim Fial. Before I give the floor to Mr Jiří Kobza, I state an apology: from 17.50 to 18.15 Lukáš Černohorský apologizes for reasons of work. Mr. Jiří Kobza now. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said, I suppose more will be said, but I will try to stick to the facts at most. 12. 12. a completely independent, objective and impartial apolitical association, a political non-profit organisation security centre of European value, publishes the following report: "The House should immediately set up an investigation committee to assess the impact of the People's Republic of China and the PPF Group on Czech politics and public debate. All confirmed information needs to be sorted out and evaluated in detail and systemic measures taken so that this cannot be repeated.' 16. 12. from the sides of the former block comes a completely innovative and original requirement to set up a parliamentary committee to evaluate the influence of authoritarian regimes on the internal affairs of the Czech political system. That is undoubtedly a purely random resemblance. If we take this initiative seriously, we must first of all, and I would ask that it be part of the resolution, define and clarify terminology, say what we have to imagine under the proposed institution, what competence it will have, what its scope will be and the like, because otherwise it does not make sense and it will only be a shot in the void. So we can have two circles of questions about this committee. Firstly, what authoritarian regimes will we examine here? We were talking about China and Russia, but that's not in the name of the commission. It says "authoritarian regimes." So are we going to examine all or just some of the selected ones? And if only a few chosen, then why, what will be the key to the selection? Who's gonna pick him? So why are the plaintiffs hiding behind the general term? Let us admit that most countries in the world do not have a democratic form of government. And so I ask, here we are determined and we have the capacity to examine whether the potential activities and the effects of dozens of authoritarian regimes on Czech political conditions work and do not work, because there are states that work here directly, and there are states that work indirectly here. Shall we examine the activities of the Saudi regime, its diplomats and intelligence officers who have such wonderful control over saw and acid? We know the influence of the authoritarian Saudi Arabian regime on Yemen's internal affairs, where genocide is taking place, there are tens of thousands of dead civilians, including children, famine, genocide and - beware - refugees. And here we come to Europe and we come to the interests of the Czech Republic. And all of this goes on for the silence of the West and for our shameful silence. It's been almost a year since the House was waiting to discuss my proposed point, which dealt with these brutal methods of the Saudi regime, but there was no political will, especially on the side of the Democratic bloc again. We can also deal with the process of Saudi influence on the Islamization of Europe, which, including the financial aspect, was very well mapped in his recent study by Senator Láska, whom no one will ever suspect was a secret sympathizer of the SPD. Will we dissect Turkey's activities in Europe, where it spreads Islamic ideology, blackmails the European Union with the threat of migration, and whose citizens are being subjected to the violent actions of migrants who are pursuing and murdering their opponents, whether Turkish Democrats or Kurd? Since we live in Schengen and open border times, we are once again beginning to influence the situation in the Czech Republic. In the same way Turkey's influence in Syria is absolutely indisputable, shredded with the blood of thousands of dead, and again refugees fleeing to Europe and fleeing through the Czech Republic or the Czech Republic. So the influence on the Czech Republic is considerable here. And the saddest part is that the West and we, too, did not only tolerate Saudi Arabia and Turkey, but directly supported it, so the Czech Republic bears the consequences of this crisis. And then we can discuss the action of North Korea, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, Qatar and others, because in the end it will end in part with some influence in our country. None of the Czech politicians has yet condemned the CIA for eavesdropping on the European Union's leading policies, but what is surprising is that it has not been addressed what technology has been used to do this. Personally, I bet it wasn't Huawei who was damned. Do we have to assume that they're listening in on us? I guess so. [[17.30 hours]] What about foreign funding for political nonprofits and activists? Again - promoting migration, supporting organisations that support migration, promoting movement, promoting the legalisation of migrants, isn't this an influential tool on our territory? We can take it from a second point of view. How does the target country feel about the activities of our political nonprofits abroad, which are doing the same activity in the so-called transformation cooperation that I was talking about here when we discussed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget? After all, the expulsion of člověk in distress from Russia for action against the regime is, of course, also a typical manifestation of authoritarianism. Denouncing authoritarian practices and defending their penetration into the Czech Republic is good and important. We in the SPD have one principle - we measure all the same subway. The meter's three feet long. For everyone. We don't select, we don't select arbitrarily in advance, who's more horrible, less horrible, we measure everyone equally. We are trying to proceed politically and qualifiedly, as is the case with legislative power. We certainly don't want to subpoena the activities of specialized authorities or secret services. So I'll be back again. So what would be the purpose of this committee? What's his status? What competence? And will it be a discussion club over the House espresso, or some quasi-investigating body that would invite Russian, Chinese diplomats, politicians, heads of their secret intelligence services and their correspondents? Or something in between? Would members of this commission be authorized outside any legal framework to enter the living case of Czech intelligence services? Could they be familiar with classified information? Would this be a serious activity or a politically motivated exhibition? Until these questions have been answered truthfully and responsibly, no rational and responsible politician can vote in a clear conscience for the establishment of such an institution. Unless he is a fan either on the one hand, as has already been said here, of the McCarthy Committee on Non-American Activities, or of the standardisation review committee. My neighbor's Rus, and I go shopping with a Číňan man. Then I guess I'll be a suspect too. I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that by this commission we are creating a purely ideological body and that the ideological police, according to Orwell, are only a step away from him. So please consider very carefully how you will approach the establishment of this commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u144	Thank you. Good evening, dear colleagues. With a factual remark, Mr Jan Lipavský is registered. They're jamming this note, so I'm gonna see if anyone's reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. Is there any interest in the final word on the part of the plaintiff? No.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u145	Mr Vice-President, I would like to go back to the motion for a resolution at the moment, as I have put it, which means that we would have interrupted this point by 30. 1. 11:00. [[Gong.]] 30. 1. 2020 to say exactly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-009-284.u146	Yes, I, of course, have registered this proposal. The agreement was that the general debate would be concluded and we would vote on the interruption of this point by 30. 1. 2020 at 11.00. I'll wait. [[Gong.]] Gonging intensely. I'll sign you all off on request. Please log in with your identification cards. I'm going to repeat what we're going to vote on. We will vote on the suspension of this point by 30 January 2020 at 11.00. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 405. Registered 149 Members, for 134, against 6. The motion was accepted. I note that this point is interrupted by 11 pm on 30 January 2020. We'll proceed to the next point. Vice-President Pikal voted with replacement card number 21. The next item is
