ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-007-031.u1	31. Government bill amending Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws /German press 411/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Klára Dostálová, Minister for Regional Development, will state the proposal. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor. I beg you to remain calm in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-007-031.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me put forward the proposal for a regulation on housing co-ownership contained in the Civil Code and Act No. 311/2013 Coll., on the transfer of ownership to units and group family houses of some housing cooperatives, which was prepared on the basis of an approved legislative work plan and in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. First of all, it must be said that the regulation of housing joint ownership affects a considerable number of persons. In 2017, approximately 65 thousand were registered in the Czech Republic. the community of owners of units, the number of which increased by 3% year on year. There's more than 1.5 miles in housing co-ownership. apartments. The claims placed on the owners of the apartments and the authorities of the owners' communities are constantly increasing, along with the increasing number of legislation affecting these housing communities. The legislation is often complex and in some cases raises interpretation disputes and discussions. For these reasons and after extensive discussions with many practitioners and in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, we present a proposal aimed at clarifying certain provisions and achieving greater clarity and clarity of the text. The aim is not, and I would like to point out, a change to the current concept, as it has been set up by the Civil Code effective since 2014. A fundamental change is the exclusion of pre-emptive rights in some cases of co-ownership of the unit, especially if there is a unit in co-ownership involving a non-residential space in which there are, for example, garage parking spaces. The current pre-emptive regulation makes it impossible to transfer the unit of the apartment together with the co-ownership share of the unit in which the garage stands are located. It is also proposed to exclude the pre-emptive right as regards the joint ownership interest in functionally related immovable property, in particular land, in the case of its transfer with the unit. However, it is not our aim to extend the exemption from the re-established pre-emptive law beyond the rules on housing co-ownership. It is also proposed, in particular, to amend the formation of a community of owners of units. The new text removes doubts as to whether the legal person can be established by the sole owner of all units, unless expressly provided for by the law. In addition, the text of the provisions dealing with the moment of compulsory establishment and establishment of the community of the owners of the units is clarified and the provision is deleted to postpone the establishment of the community of the owners of the units. It is of interest to all owners that the community should be established as soon as possible, in particular with regard to their solidarity in relation to creditors until the Community has been established. Further important proposals may mention the simplification of the process of accepting amendments to the declarations so that the agreement of the owners concerned, together with the agreement of the majority of the votes of all owners of the units and of the majority of all owners of the units, remains sufficient. A resolution of the Assembly is no longer required. It may also be considered essential to simplify the sale process of an owner's unit, which infringes its obligations in a way substantially limiting or preventing the exercise of the rights of other owners of the units, so that only one finding procedure and the previous formalised warning of the owners' communities are sufficient to sell the unit. In addition, it is proposed to specify the text of the provisions on the transfer of debts in connection with the transfer of the unit, in order to clearly establish that the debts for the contributions to the administration and the debts to the services are transferred to the acquirer, while the confirmation of the community serves to provide information on the extent of the debt. The regulation of the administration of the immovable property without the establishment of a community of owners was also supplemented, and the provisions on the review of the decision of the meeting of the owners by the court were also refined. A new institution of a reserve meeting has been put in place. Other partial changes are in the vast majority of the precisions of the current text aimed at specifying the whole design. With regard to the relationship of the housing co-ownership legislation contained in the Civil Code in Act No. 311/2013 Sb., on the transfer of ownership to units and group family houses in some housing associations, are also proposed partial modifications in this law. The material also contains changes which respond, inter alia, to the long-term requirements of representatives of housing cooperatives and the community of owners of units seeking to strengthen the protection of the legitimate and legitimate rights of such legal persons and their members. For this reason, it is proposed to introduce the possibility to negotiate in connection with the rental of the apartment the right to payment of the contractual penalty in the event of breach of the obligations arising from the lease by the tenant. At present, the possibility of such an arrangement is prohibited by law. The only option a landlord can now ensure that these obligations are met is to arrange a security of up to three times the monthly rent. However, the Institute of Security primarily performs a compensation function. The contractual penalty, on the contrary, accentuates primarily the preventive function. Furthermore, in cases where damage is caused by breach of the obligation, it may perform the function of flat-rate compensation. Contrary to the security, a contractual penalty may be imposed on the fulfilment of obligations whose infringement does not cause any immediate damage or cannot be quantified. The change should thus contribute to the confirmation of the performance of the tenant's obligations, which should be positively revealed and reflected both in cooperative rental ratios and in mediated terms in the housing co-ownership ratios. At the same time, the tenant should be adequately protected by the limitation of the amount of the contractual fine, up to a maximum of three times the monthly rent. This limit would, if necessary, be further reduced by the amount that the tenant has lodged as a security. It is also proposed to simplify the possibility for housing cooperatives to adopt amendments to the statutes, which relate in particular to the rights and obligations of a member of the housing cooperative associated with the use of the cooperative housing. In these cases, unanimous adoption of amendments is currently required by all members of the cooperative who have concluded a lease agreement with the cooperative unit and who, according to the existing provisions of the statutes, have the right to conclude a contract for the lease of a cooperative flat. The decision on these changes should be placed under the regime of normal decision-making on the amendment of the statutes, that is to say, a simple majority would be sufficient to change. Last but not least, it is proposed to make it easier for cooperatives to convene a member meeting and inform the members of the cooperative. The current regulation allows the cooperative to convene a membership meeting only through its website. The provision thus effectively obliges the cooperative to establish a website. The proposed amendment aims to enable the cooperative to convene a member meeting through an information board. The obligation to make the information board available through the website should be provided by law only for large cooperatives in which the members' meetings are held by the assembly of delegates. This is justified by the fact that in large cooperatives members may not always have easy access to a common official record. I would also like to ask for support here and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-007-031.u3	That was Madam Secretary. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-007-031.u4	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, the proposed regulation concerns housing co-ownership, where the basis of the housing co-ownership legislation has been the Civil Code since 2014, which contains, in the provisions of Sections 1158 to 1222, the regulation of housing co-ownership as one of the special types of co-ownership law. The proposal is based on the general principles of private law and constitutional order of the Czech Republic and does not conflict with the concept of the Civil Code as a whole. The proposed amendment aims not to change the concept adopted by the new Civil Code, but rather to remove some of its shortcomings resulting from application practice, and to improve its clarity and applicability to the addressees of the legal standards. The proposed regulation amends, in particular, the provisions relating to declarations and changes thereto, as well as the management of houses and land prior to the establishment of the owners' communities, the establishment of the owners' communities and their competences in relation to the competences of individual owners, the strengthening of the possibility to impose obligations on the owners of units that violate them, the resolution of the issue of pre-emptive rights to co-ownership shares in units involving non-residential premises, the review of the decision of the assembly and some other sub-topics on changes and refinement of legislation. [[15.10 hours]] In my opinion, this is a systemic and sensitive amendment to the problematic provisions relating to housing ownership, i.e. provisions that affect the lives of a large number of citizens today and daily. It is clear that the knowledge of application practice after five years of effectiveness of the Civil Code has already emerged and the need for changes to a number of institutes will further arise. From the point of view of legal certainty, it is a fact that the concept of the Civil Code must be maintained, not in any way unsystemically, insensitively altered or bent. In view of the above, I therefore propose that the amendment to the Act be launched for second reading and that the Guarantee Committee be the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-007-031.u5	Now, I am opening a general debate where I have one written application, so Mr Karel Krejza will be given the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I don't have another application yet. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-007-031.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I certainly welcome the fact that this complex law on the community of owners of units is being introduced into this regulation. I'm sure it will. And at the same time, I have one more request. It is becoming a problem in some excluded localities with owners' communities, which, I would say, are essentially in decline, unfortunately in a situation where the debts are so large that they are essentially not possible to pay. Typically it is necessary for heat suppliers, when you are led by one management for the whole house, and although some owners of these units pay properly and pay their debts, so often the community gets into a situation that, thanks to irresponsible co-owners, there is no debt to the heating plant, there is an increase in periodic penalty payments and practically cannot be de-debted in any way. It doesn't go under the insolvency law, it's basically fixed in clinical death forever. I would like to ask whether the promoter of this amendment could go on and try to find a solution for these buildings and these communities to be reprimanded and re-used for housing, for example - and now I don't know at all, I don't want to go into legal debate. This wish, if it could be considered, can be found at all, because of course the law is difficult. So thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-007-031.u7	So, that was Mr Krejza. I will read three apologies: so Mr Jaroslav Holík from 17:00 to 18:00 apologizes for working reasons, Mr Jiří Bláha apologizes from 14:30 to 15:30 for work reasons, and Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologises between 14:30 and 19:00 for personal reasons. So, I'll look around the hall, I don't see another application for the general debate, so I'm done with the general debate. And I ask you the final words - Madam Secretary, are you interested? [[Yes.]] The rapporteur, too, if he is interested. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-007-031.u8	It's not gonna be a final word, either, but I think it's polite to answer. Yes, of course we are registering this issue. We even have a very tight group with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. We have identified the so-called 15 measures to combat poverty, which relate mainly to socially excluded localities. We are already responding to this through the Construction Programme, where we are, of course, allowing municipalities to buy those flats that are in decline, so that the number of owners will be diluted, because if one of the owners then there will be a community in the troubled house, it will, of course, help to settle the environment. And the second measure that we are dealing with is that, within the framework of the executions, the municipality would have the right to purchase.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-007-031.u9	Now the problem is that the Minister has responded to you after the general debate, so you have no factual point here. So, Madam Secretary, if you want to open a debate? [[Denial gesture.]] You do not want to open the debate, so the Member will not express himself accordingly, I understand. The rapporteur is therefore not interested in speaking, and I do not have any proposals for a return or rejection, so we will deal with the proposal on the commandments of committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee, and I first ask whether anyone proposes the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee. I don't see a suggestion. So I'm gonna have to put in some space for the Members to come to the O.R., all of them. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. So we will proceed to the vote. Who agrees? Initiating vote, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting order number 112, registered by 151 Members, for 133, against zero. The proposal has been adopted and I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. And I'm asking whether any of you have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss. I don't see any suggestion, so the first reading of this proposal is over. We will proceed to the next press and this is about
