ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u1	64. Members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Tomáš Kohoutek, Radek Holomčík, Jan Chvojka, Pavel Bělobrádek, Petr Gazdík, Pavel Jelínek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws / House Print 214/ - First Reading I thank Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová for taking the position at the rapporteur's table for a group of plaintiffs, and I will ask Mrs Helena Válková, who is the rapporteur for first reading, to take the position at the rapporteur's table. I think there's enough atmosphere to ask the plaintiff's deputy to speak her opening words. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u2	Thank you for the floor, thank you for including this point. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to House Press 214, the amendment to Act No.40/2009 Coll., the Criminal Code under which 77 Members across the political spectrum are therefore signed. The fact that the proposal has such support makes it clear that this Chamber of Deputies considers, like the TOP 09 animal cruelty, a fundamental issue to be addressed. Therefore, I also thank all those who have supported the firm inclusion of this point. And now, on the factual side of the bill. The main aim of the amendment is to increase the protection of animals and to adjust a more stringent penalty for the improper handling of animals. The amendment is based on a fundamental idea, which is the so-called process of dereification, which is the so-called atonement, when an earlier approach to an animal as a matter of fact turns into an approach to a living creature. The change of access in public law was particularly reflected in Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the protection of animals against abuse. The guiding principle of the law is expressed directly in his text. Animals, like humans, are living creatures able to feel pain and suffering at different levels and therefore deserve the attention, care and protection of man. This amendment was also reflected to some extent in the adoption of the Penal Code in 2009. In the meantime, the animal was recognized as the senses of a gifted living creature as well as in the area of private law. This trend is constantly deepened both in the Czech Republic and abroad. The Norwegian legislation, which introduces the principle of promoting respect for animals and the principle of recognising the animal's internal value, can be cited as an example. The expression of the progression of Norwegian legislation, for example, is the legal anchoring of the obligation of the founder of an injured animal to assist such an animal or the notification obligation that anyone who has reasonable suspicion that the animal is exposed to abuse or serious environmental, surveillance and care violations. From the Czech legislation it is possible to introduce a new regulation in the veterinary law after amendment No. 302/2017 Coll., effective from 1 November 2017, which introduced, for example, compulsory registration of breeders of five or more bitches or the obligation of private veterinarians to report suspicions of animal abuse. I believe that the criminal code should also respond to the change in society's perception in relation to animals in order to provide protection to animals in the hierarchy of protected values more significantly than, for example, to the protection of property. That is why, in the amendment, we propose, on the one hand, to criminalise more serious infringements as a criminal offence -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u3	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to have debates that do not concern the amendment to the Penal Code in the foyer. I know that a number of colleagues have signed up for this, that this is not an extra controversial issue, but I am convinced that it is necessary for you to have debates that do not concern this, unless you have been given the floor, to actually conduct outside the Chamber. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u4	Thank you. So I'm going to start that paragraph one more time to make it work. I believe that the criminal code should also respond to the change in society's perception in relation to animals in order to provide protection to animals in the hierarchy of protected values more significantly than, for example, to the protection of property. That is why, in the amendment, we propose, on the one hand, that more serious offences be criminalised as a criminal offence and, on the other hand, in a manner consistent with the re-view of society on animals, to revise criminal sanctions. The proposed criminal rates are set quite high. The rate referred to in paragraph 1 corresponds, for example, to the offence of bodily injury - § 146 para. In paragraph 1, the offence of the abuse of a entrusted person shall be comparable to that of paragraph 2. The two-year lower limit of imprisonment in paragraph 2 is introduced as a form of restriction, but not the exclusion of the possibility of deciding on a criminal offence pursuant to § 302 para. 2 by a criminal order without hearing the case in the main trial. The new legislation also aims to respond to the negative phenomenon of so-called multiplications, in which animals are often bred and reproduced under very inappropriate conditions. The current criminal regulation does not allow such action to be sanctioned unless it also fulfils the facts of the animal abuse offence or any other offence. According to available statistical data, live animals represent the third most profitable "commodity" with which they are illegally traded alongside drugs and weapons. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic takes the lead in illegal exports of puppies to Europe within European countries. Guided by the desire for profit, some breeders completely resign to ensure adequate conditions for the reproduction of animals and subsequent care for them. There are also very often violations of standards that determine how an old cub can be taken away from a mother or standards relating to vaccination or compulsory documents. In the absence of relevant rules in the current legislation, we consider the proposed amendments to be necessary. Thus, the new factual nature of the animal behaviour offence is created under inappropriate conditions. The purpose of this regulation is to affect cases of ill-considered and irresponsible production of puppies, kittens and other puppies at the level of criminal law, their possession under completely non-compliant conditions, the lack of respect for elementary principles for their collection from mothers and the lack of follow-up care for them and their mothers. [[16.30 hours]] In this context, we propose the introduction of a new ban on breeding and the possession of animals. This penalty is intended to compensate for the shortcomings in the imposition of a ban on the activity and punishment of the forfeiture of the case - animal - to persons who have committed the crime in connection with the possession or possession or care of the animal. In view of the public's comments, the criminality of so-called breeding plants has also been extended to cases of animal breeding in inappropriate conditions without the existence of intent and the need to trade its evidence in criminal proceedings with animals. In order to comply with the principle of subsidiarity of criminal repression, negotiations are subject to the condition that there must be a greater number of animals. The breeding of animals under inappropriate conditions for the purpose of trade and prey from it, the so-called multiplication business, is then more severely punished in the context of a qualified factual nature. Bones shall be understood as any means of obtaining the property benefits of such action. The person who ensures the necessary documents or certificates for the purpose of exporting animals to another State, the person who takes the animals away, the person who leases the property in which the propagation plant is operated, etc., will also be responsible for the offence of breeding animals under inappropriate conditions. A little more to the effect. It is proposed that the law as a whole should take effect on the 15th day following its publication. The proposed regulation does not foresee more extensive related or follow-up changes to the legal order. The petitioners consider that the general regulation of effectiveness gives sufficient scope to the addressees to get acquainted with it due to its relatively brief scope. The Government discussed and examined the draft law at its meeting on 24 July last year and took a neutral position on it, pointing out some of the facts which it recommends to take into account in the further discussion of this proposal. According to the Government's statement, for example, the draft law does not make it clear the impact of imposing a penalty against the possession and breeding of animals on the ownership of the animal. The government's proposed legislation does not imply that the animal should fall to the state. Furthermore, there is no time limit within the framework of the enforcement procedure during which the perpetrator should ensure that the animal is placed in an appropriate place or sold. Nor is it addressed how it should be done if this fails. To this end, the proposed penalty for the prohibition of breeding and possession of animals is directed towards the activity of the convicted futuro, following criminal convictions so that in the future the commission of the crime in question is prevented from being able to have animals in its possession in the future. Thus, it does not address the question of ownership of the sentenced animal, which was the subject of an attack on the criminal offence for which he was convicted in the present case. For example, in the case of the imposition of a ban on driving a motor vehicle as a penalty for the prohibition of activity, the legal regulation in the Code of Criminal Procedure does not address the issue of limitation or termination of the right of ownership to the vehicle itself. Similarly, in the case under consideration, it is decisive that the convicted person does not actually have the animals in his possession, not that he will not be the owner of the animals. Moreover, in relation to an animal subject to an offence for which the perpetrator has been convicted, it may continue to be possible to apply the punishment of forfeiture as, in accordance with the provisions of Section 134 of the Criminal Code, the provisions on cases also apply to live animals. In its opinion, the Government draws attention to the lack of regulation of the control of the execution of the penalty for the prohibition of breeding and possession of animals. According to the government, it is not clear from the proposal whether the control can also take place on land not owned by the convicted party. The Government has doubts as to whether the authorisation of the probation officer to carry out random checks is not a disproportionate interference with the basic human right to the integrity of the dwelling. In our view, the term "land of the condemned" must be interpreted not only as land for which the sentenced person has a right of ownership, but also as land for convict rental or land in which the sentenced person maintains or holds animals on the basis of another legal title or permission of the owner. As regards the random checks of the probation officer, this is not a new one introduced into the legal order of the Czech Republic in connection with this proposed punishment. On a similar principle, a check of the execution of the house arrest sentence may be carried out, which is also imposed for offense. If such an adjustment is constitutionally comfortable, then there is no reason to question its conformity in relation to the proposed penalty for the prohibition of breeding and possession of animals. The government also comments on some of the terms in the bill. For example, according to the government, the term "holding, breeding and caring for an animal " is not specified in the text of the draft law or in the explanatory memorandum. The phrase "larger quantities" in the definition of "animal breeding under inappropriate conditions" is then vague. It would be more appropriate to use the term "larger number of animals' already in place. I do not consider it necessary to redefine these terms, as these terms are already anchored and experienced in the legal order. Holding, as in the case of the civil law ratio, means primarily factually available with the animal. The replacement of the term "larger number of animals" for the term "greater number of animals" would have some consequences. The current legislation actually works with the term "larger number of animals'. In relation to these provisions, the judicial practice concluded that it should be at least seven animals. It should therefore be considered whether it is desirable to draw this conclusion also to the provisions whose primary task is to deal with unwanted multiplication business. The use of the term "larger number of animals', which the legislature has not yet worked with, would allow the content of this concept to be defined only by subsequent judicial practice and, for example, by way of derogation from the previously established practice. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, at the end of the day, I would like to make a few comments. The bill was written by experts in criminal law from law schools. One of the lawyers who has long been involved in animal abuse, Dr. Plicka, was also named lawyer of 2018, by the way, also the author of this proposal. I think the proposal is therefore very well prepared. Of course, it is for discussion subsequently at further readings, especially on committees, on the Committee of Constitutional Law, or to fine-tune some discrepancies, even according to the criticisms adopted by the Government, even though I have, of course, tried to answer them at the outset. Unfortunately, the number of animal cruelty in the Czech Republic is not falling. We have all probably had the opportunity to see a number of very scary cases, and unfortunately, the penalties that have been given to those who have committed these acts are very low in the Czech Republic, and the only case that anyone would be sentenced to prison was only recently. Thus, although there are a number of such acts, including so-called practice of multiplication, the punishments are criminally laconical in our country. And this bill is actually the first attempt to define the concept of multiplication in the law, because so far our legislation does not know anything about it. Of course, that doesn't mean that anyone who abused an animal should end up in prison. There are certainly different forms of punishment according to severity, but the most brutal forms, according to the petitioners, certainly deserve a tougher procedure. It is not only animal abuse, but, according to a number of studies, international studies, those who have committed the criminal activity of animal abuse have in the future been able to commit similar crimes of abuse even to humans. And I think that as a form of prevention, the punishments that should discourage the perpetrator should serve. That is also one of the reasons why we are approaching this amendment. Thank you very much not only for supporting the inclusion of this point. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues who signed the proposal for this, too. And I ask you very much to support this proposal, so that we can discuss it more professionally in future readings, especially in committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u5	I would like to thank Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, the plaintiff of the plaintiffs. Before we go on and give the floor to the rapporteur, I state the apology received by the President of the House, Mrs Margita Balaštíková from 16.30 to 17.30, from 16.30 to the end of the day, Ondřej Benešík apologizes and from 17.00 to 19.00 Mr David Pražák. I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Helena Válková to present her report to us. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, it has all been described in very detail here, what is the content of the draft amendment to the Criminal Code, and I will not tire you of describing the change again. Basically, we are currently criminalizing misdemeanor behaviors sanctioned, inappropriate, inappropriate forms of animal treatment, or criminalizing them. We're using criminal justice tools. It's always worth wondering if it's right. But I think, in this case, the last droplet that I think has flown through the cup of patience of many of us was the case of a puppy whose fate passed on social media. I just want to remind you, because not only the petitioner, but all of us who saw it were saying, "We have to do something about it," and because she was very quick, she used, as she openly says here, the support and assistance of a lawyer who is specialized in this issue, so we co-signed the proposal, there were many of us. The aim of this proposal is indisputable - criminalising and preventively acting through the threat of criminal repression against all who would like to behave in a similar way. In addition, the extension of criminal repression in relation to animal breeding under inappropriate conditions, which I consider to be a good connection, was also offered directly in substance justified, so in this one proposal we are dealing closely with two issues of substance. Of course, this needs to be addressed not only in the area of guilt, that is to say the introduction of criminal liability, but also in the area of sanctions, or adequately punished. And here I see the biggest problem of the proposal presented, which, in the form that has escaped some of us who have co-signed the law, basically says - because the criminal law is from saying something, declaring something, trying to improve prevention, preventing certain forms of action. She basically says - if you abuse someone and it will be an animal - here you have indicated one deed, I will supplement another - it is not only about harm to the health, intentional harm to the health, but, for example, it is more strictly possible than at present § 150 Non-aid, where it is explicitly determined who does not provide assistance to a person who is in danger of death or shows signs of serious health disorder etc., if he is not in danger of harm, danger to himself or his loved ones, then he is less criminal, or is threatened with lower sanctions than in the case of the essential facts in paragraph 1, where he is threatened for up to three years, while for that 150, he does not provide assistance for only two years. All you can see from this example is that for the sake of good things, it would happen to us that we would really mess up the criminal rates, and I think it wouldn't be right, and it's in more cases. Some of them were mentioned by the petitioner, others are still available. I think that this is all then the task of the second reading and the committee that will deal with it, and of course, of us Members who should be active in this area, I have promised it myself, and I have tried to improve what we have co-signed, so that it corresponds to the social harmfulness of the conduct that is enshrined in the criminal law and which in the Czech Criminal Code is judged to be more or less socially harmful according to criminal rates. I think one should always be protected by hair, even symbolically, more than an animal. The question to the discussion, even then, into a specific form of the proposed change. Another thing that I would not have completely left out with the argument that I heard a moment ago from the rapporteur is the sanction - on the one hand, its length, which, in practice, makes problems for us for ten years in other alternative business bans, and, on the other hand, it is not used, and on the other hand, the ten years of foreign legislation is seen as too long, and therefore, I may propose a reduction to five years. But that's premature now. We must build on what is proven to us in practice, what is not, and therefore adapt when we are already doing some new legislation - or we do not have to - but we should - the needs of application practice and what has proved to be good. I personally consider and blame most of all that I did not properly read the proposal to the point where the performance checks, because otherwise it is called. Toothless sanctions. If I impose a ban and do not have an appropriate person and adequately ensure the control of the execution of such a new ban on the holding of animals, then, of course, such a penalty will not be effective at all. And the proposed probation officer, who we do not have enough to handle the exercise of alternative sanctions, which are aimed at the perpetrators of criminal offences, but at the same time also seeks to include in the complex the treatment and victims of criminal offences, or indeed those powers and powers of probation officers are defined otherwise than to walk and control on the grounds where animals are kept, whether the prohibition is respected or not, so extend their competences. In this direction, I think it would harm the original and in the Probation and Mediation Service Act, a well-formulated and factually anchored mission. So working with the perpetrator of the crime, then with the victim, or at the same time with the victim, in order to resocialize it as quickly as possible and minimise the risk of recurrence of crime. Here I think we literally have to come up with a slightly different mechanism or procedure in this case. And I believe that led by a unified intention to improve the protection of animals from the forms represented by abuse or breeding of animals under completely inappropriate conditions, we will finally come to a conclusion that will be acceptable to most of us in the Chamber of Deputies. Thus, after we have all come to know this proposal, I can only suggest, and as rapporteur, I certainly push for this standard, this proposal, although it suffers from certain flaws in both formal legal and factual performance, to allow for second reading and to remedy its defects in the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u7	I thank the rapporteur for her report, and I can therefore open a debate in which Mr Dominik Feri is the first to join. A colleague Tomáš Kohoutek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u8	Thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, two things in principle. Firstly, I would like to thank the Government for giving a neutral opinion on this proposal. This is not a custom for opposition proposals. I think that this proposal is due to the fact that the support was simply so broad, including from members of the coalition parties, that I thank them very much for the support that it could not be avoided, and at the same time the issue and materiality is simply so fundamental and moves the company that it simply cannot be overcome. I really thank the government for that. It was already this government, even though this proposal has been here for about six months. And then also the second thing, which concerns the issue of interference with the penal code from opposition benches. I would probably be the last one to call in the need to actively intervene in the codes, we've already had proposals here concerning the Civil Code, or other big codes, integrated works, from opposition benches with some partial proposals. On the other hand, this very broad support shows that we simply will not be able to avoid solving this issue. [[16.50 hours]] Of course, I am also calling, and even in previous amendments, I have called, after a prudent work on the committee, about a prudent consideration of the effects of intensifying criminal repression, but I think we are actually able to do this, there is quite a broad consensus that we should be dealing with this. We will certainly have many representatives of the professional public. We managed to remove defects in a much more problematic material, or in a material that was affected by much more fundamental defects. If you recall obstruction of justice, we were able to improve that with artful intervention, eliminate flaws. I think we'll be able to eliminate those objections here. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur for setting out some ideas. And please release this proposal after perhaps more than half a year into committees. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u9	I thank Mr Dominik Feri. Now, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek, Mrs Šafránková and then colleague Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, there has been a lot of theory here, I would like to introduce a little practice and healthy common sense and a look at what is really happening in our society. I'm from Děčín, Ústí Region. The Ústí Region is not only the city of Most, as you all know now, but also the city of Decin. And unfortunately, in our town, there's been an unfortunate case of tortured dog Rony. Let me quote a text from a diary to give you a sense of reality. "For cruel abuse of a dog, a man was given prison. The court didn't believe the necessary defenses." It is an article from February 1, 2019 on iDNES. "Instead of the conditions proposed by the prosecution, Ondrej Hován was given in Děčín court for brutal abuse of the dog 21 months hard. Whether or not he's gonna do it isn't certain yet. The man appealed against unconditional punishment on the spot." I would like to begin by thanking and bowing down to the judge of the district court in Děčín for having found so much courage that, even with the current legislation in force, she has allowed herself, albeit illegally, to grant an unconditional sentence of imprisonment. You want to know why I'm reacting to a court decision like that? Well, unfortunately, the existing legislation, namely § 302 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) he says that imprisonment for six months to three years, or prohibition of action, will punish the perpetrator if the abused animal suffers permanent health or death. This particular deed that was committed in my hometown Děcina, was described so that the defendant, according to the court, neither the annual hybrid of Labrador's retriever brutally and repeatedly beat him, thereby causing him lasting consequences. Dog Rony can't see and has trouble eating. The dog had to be beaten and kicked, the dog also had his ear cut open, the broken upper jaw and the shattered lower jaw. If you're interested in getting closer, google your tortured dog, Rony, you'll find out more. Unfortunately, with the current legislation in force, I can't be surprised, and I can't say anything to the prosecutor that he only proposed conditional sentences, because the current deed of the act falls within a rate of six months to three years. Every senior lawyer knows that if you are in a criminal rate of up to three years, it is practically impossible for the person concerned, unless there are particularly serious aggravating circumstances, to be sentenced to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment. If it seems normal to you that someone currently in force is going to kill a dog or maim him by being legless, doesn't see, and gets parole - unfortunately, it doesn't seem appropriate to me. I don't see the difference between crippling or killing a dog, a cat, or a person. It's the same for me. I think maybe it's even worse, because this guy can get up, he can defend himself, he can go to the police, he can file a criminal report. Or, as we have witnessed in this honourable House, some want to deal with it outside. But when someone crippls a dog, the dog has the only way to defend itself or to wait for some justice: that there will be good people who point it out, and the state will begin to deal with it. Therefore, I believe that it is clearly necessary to put this law into second reading. We can fine-tune the details, but I think that society and the development of society are such that something needs to be done about it. Therefore, thank you so much for your support and I look forward to further cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u11	I thank Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. My colleague Šafránková will wait a little longer. I have here a factual comment by Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u12	Mr Vice-President, I would like to respond to the previous debate, and I would also advocate common sense and some caution. And, of course, in committees, it is possible to discuss these things, and let's say common sense, try to bring them into the matter. We may not have mentioned one quite important thing here, which is actually related to this topic. Every spring, or every season between spring and summer, there is a mowing bow, and there under the lawnmowers will perish a large number of cubs that have just been born. And that, in fact, could also qualify as animal abuse, and those who did that could be exposed to sanctions in an activist approach to the application of the law. They're doing their business, I dare say, in the public interest. We're trying to figure this thing out. We've met the petition "Stop Chopping Deer"! on a subcommittee on the environment. We're going to have a round table on this topic on April 2nd. And I'm sure the designers don't have that thing in there. So maybe it would be worth it to wait and spend more time in committee than usual, so that we can take these things into account and not put farmers in unnecessary danger of being prosecuted for what they do, perhaps unconsciously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Šafránková, a colleague, Mr Marek Benda, will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that our SPD movement is a co-president of this bill, which fundamentally tightens the punishments for animal abuse and is against multiplication. The level and maturity of society is to a large extent recognised by how it approaches its weaker and defenseless members, individuals, children, sick, handicapped and, last but not least, animals. It is not just that our legal system is viewed as a matter of fact, but, in particular, how society then approaches the animals. [[per animal]] Because, even in this case, the old principle is that law is the minimum of morality, which here, in particular, means that the written law gives society a signal that is acceptable, what is tolerable and what is not. There is no doubt that animals are living creatures capable of, for example, pain and suffering. The Civil Code already recognizes the animal as the senses of the gifted. And it is unsustainable and indefensible that this effect of pain, whatever happens in any way, the rule of law tolerates it if it knows it. And it's not just direct violence and physical abuse, it's any animal abuse, lack of care, inappropriate living conditions, etc. There is no doubt that the legal protection of animals should be higher for the above reasons than, for example, for the protection of property. Relatively new phenomenon called. The breeding population fully fulfils the institute of inappropriate breeding conditions, which can cause pain and suffering to animals, although in itself it does not yet have to fulfil all the characteristics of the facts of the animal abuse offence. Not to mention that farming methods and methods called. crossbreeding in these breeding plants has already established many times the confirmed risk of birth of individuals with birth defects and diseases, on a mass scale, which is, of course, accompanied by the further suffering of these living creatures. All of this is often accompanied by the falsifying of veterinary documentation, with only one objective: maximizing the profits of operators of these facilities, which is completely unacceptable from our point of view. Therefore, through elected representatives, the State must respond to this situation and therefore the SPD fully supports this amendment to the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u15	Thank you, Mrs Šafránková, for her performance and Mr Marek Benda will take the floor. A colleague of mine, Holomčík, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u16	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Dear appellant, Ladies and Gentlemen, after this series of agreed applause, how right it is to protect the animals from abuse, I am going to add a few points to why I think that the bill proposed to us has certain shortcomings. And I'm not saying in any way that I approve of animal abuse, that I approve of breeding animals in inappropriate breeding. It was even us who, six years ago, put in the Civil Code after a long public debate, that an animal is not a thing and is treated not as a thing, but has an increased level of protection. Please, I agree with all of this. I think that torturing animals is really something nasty that points to a certain perverseness of a person and is to be punished. Yet what we are being presented here is not as simple as animal abuse and punishment for animal abuse. It is an overall amendment to the penal code, which is aimed at significantly increased so-called animal protection, to a significant increase in penalties in all areas that somehow affect the animal. I wouldn't normally run out, you know, like, they kind of leave me calm if you didn't put those fishermen back in. I'm a careful fisherman. I'm careful with that. And as soon as you start picking up my fishing sentences, I immediately raise my attention and say, "Why are you putting it in there?" Why do you give such things that if someone is poaching, you move poaching in the second paragraph for two years to eight years? Those are the most serious crimes. Eight years is please... It's not like he's been sexually abused for eight years. He's not eight years old for rape in the first paragraph. And here we say that for poaching on a larger scale, we'll say two years to eight years. Of course, it has some other implications, like, once I put these rates in, I can put on different intelligence techniques and other things. And I'm just pointing out certain little things. Of course, in those fish where I've always protested about the illegal fishing or hiding fish, he'll be punished for two years today. Newly called six months to three years. I know it's important to protect the fish, but the idea of a sentence six months to three years seems disproportionately - disproportionately - high. But the same thing I'm afraid of, and I'm not even sure if it's premeditated, if it's just people writing it, and that's why it bothers me that it's not a government novel and that government legislation is obviously as much as it let go, we don't want 86 Members to be offended, so we're going to write some very unspecific notes. But there are other things. The spread of infectious animal diseases. The spread of contagious diseases and pests of commercial plants. We know to what extent this is happening today, that there's always some breeding going on, and now, as he knew, he was trying to hide it, he wasn't trying to hide it, he was deliberately selling it... And again, we're just increasing without any public debate, if that's right, or if that's not right. It's often part of some competitive struggle. And when we had the disease of crazy cows, then the avian flu disease came and then this came and that, and the poor guys always had to take out the whole breeding and take out. And once again, without too much justification in the explanatory statement, it's just saying, if we're already protecting the animals, we're just gonna pick it up from six months to three years, for one year to five years. And so on, and so forth, and so forth. I just feel like this proposal... It is also, of course, questionable in text, because Section 77a Prohibition of the holding and breeding of animals in the introductory introductory phrase is in plural, then suddenly in specific paragraphs "The court may impose a penalty against the holding and breeding of an animal." I suppose it's just a typo that animals were wanted, or if it can impose a ban on breeding a particular animal, a specific dog, then of course it will depend on whether there is such a violation of the ban... And stuff like that. I just feel like we've been through a little bit of government legislation and that it's not the happiest, that we're just missing these commentary procedures and we're missing things to deal with government legislation. The last point concerns § 302a. One is animal abuse. But 302a is animal breeding under inappropriate conditions. "He who has more animals under inappropriate conditions will be punished by imprisonment for up to one year, by prohibition of activity or prohibition of possession and breeding of animals." What exactly does that mean? We know well today how broad discussions are being held about what cage breedings are, how many hens must have places, whether they must have sunshine or artificial sunshine. But this concerns all possible other species of animals. We forbid some of it. That's true, we'll say sometimes, but at least it should be clear here that he's acting against the law. Since we have a whole range of green activists who say, well, this behavior of the animal is completely inappropriate, this behavior of the animal should be altered differently, there should be more room. Yet, for various reasons, often financial, that there is simply no money for it to be adjusted from one day to the next, but it has not yet grown up. The moment we put back such unfortunate and vague "inappropriate" conditions, I'm afraid it'll be just a part of it... and realizing that we have the criminal liability of legal entities and a number of other questions, that it will only become big legal battles that will lead to competitive fighting. I'd be very careful. I have no objection to dealing with animal abuse. But I have a feeling that all those attempts to mess with animal cruelty still seem inappropriate and unhappy to me, including not interfering with the crime. Including the non-confessing of the crime that we're putting animal breeding into under inappropriate conditions. And here we're gonna say, whoever didn't turn him in... The non-confession of a crime is in itself very controversial, it is prosecuted very rarely, it is used only for the most severe crimes. And we're gonna say, whoever didn't turn him in, or whoever was even keeping a quiet eye on it from the Ministry, watched as we green activists wanted to fix the sheep breeding a long time ago, but we haven't succeeded yet, but now we have, and now we're gonna get rid of him, including the undefeated one. So I'm not suggesting a rejection at this point, because I don't think there's a chance in this House. I think it's possible to rework it in the same way on the board of constitutional law, the plaintiff, virtually. I don't really believe that the plaintiffs themselves have redesigned anything in a fundamental way. [[Nesroz.]] So I'm not suggesting anything. I will agree with Mrs Válková's proposal to release us to the constitutionally legal committee. I'm going to propose an extension of the 20-day hearing so that we can have enough time. And I'm just saying, I'm hoping that when this goes through the Constitutional Legal Committee, you'll find a much more brief and delicate material that will solve the real problem, and not a lot of other problems that you'll find so-called. maybe even in good faith. I'm not the one who blames anyone for realizing enough what they can do with all this. But that's why I miss the opponents of the Government Legislative Council and the opponents of the other departments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u17	Thank you. Mr Klaus will react in a real way. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to support my colleague Benda's argument. And then I have three short notes. I am here one of the few Members who read Lightning for many reasons. Then I usually give it to Mr Jand. And I couldn't help but notice that the merit of this law has been on the other side of blesk for about three weeks. Members, quickly, quickly, quickly, quickly adopt the law on multiplication, and there are almost 100 of you here, or 86 of you. So, first of all, I would ask you not to be ashamed and stop wearing those pseudo-intellectual slices here from the newsroom and wearing that Lightning that inspires you to those laws and how to do it. Secondly, I'd say we have a law on animal cruelty. It already is. We can tighten it up a little bit, but there's no need to accept more in my opinion. And it's very hard to apply. Often those animals, poor people, there's nowhere to put them. The state has no kennel. So this is what we have. And three. I, too, am very worried that it will turn into informers who will say that they have three pigs in the pigsty, the pigsty is small, and it will end up a little differently than most Members intend. So I'd rather lean to what my colleague Benda called the law, pay close attention to it, tightening up the punishments for animal abuse, which is disgusting, but not pouring out the baby with the bathtub.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u19	Thank you. Mr Holomčík in the debate, Mrs Valachová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say two things. Firstly, the opinion of the Pirate Party MP. Some of us co-signed the law. We have little reservations about some of the parameters of the law, but there is basically nothing that cannot be dealt with in the framework of committee discussions and in the context of second reading. So I can say for the pirate MP's club that we support this proposal. And the other thing that has a little bit to do with it. This proposal doesn't stop the work. There are also other laws concerning the protection of animals from abuse, or veterinary law addresses part of this issue, so I will be happy if the work continues after possible approval - and I believe that this proposal will be approved - even then. And I would like to say one more thing that I have already discussed with some of my colleagues. This proposal was primarily motivated by appalling cases of illegal multiplication. When we look at the issue a little more deeply, the illegal multiplication plants, or the people who run it, are getting into conflict, you might say, with two laws. For one thing, it is legislation to protect animals from abuse, but it is often tax offences, tax evasion. I would be delighted, and I do not see the Minister of Finance here if - and mostly, we are doing this to a colleague, Mr Bláha, whom I do not see here - we sit at one table: Members who are interested in this, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the tax authorities, or representatives of law enforcement authorities, to discuss the possibilities of dealing with illegal multiplications as well as the other potential offense, that is tax offences. Of course, what's important is that there should also be representatives of legal breeding stations sitting at that table, so that what happened in the past by the Ministry of Finance doesn't happen in relation to kneeling to various companies, so that we don't implement something here that we don't really want to introduce. And it's actually quite simple logic. If the enforcement of the right to protect animals from abuse in our state is significantly lower, significantly lower than the enforcement of the right in relation to tax evasion and tax offences, let's just try the other way. They got Al Capone on tax evasion, didn't they? So let's just take this as a challenge. I'd love it if it fell on fertile soil. Once again, I'm sorry the Secretary of Finance isn't here, but I'm sure at the nearest oral questioning, I'm gonna do this and I'm gonna be glad if we're gonna do this together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u21	Thank you. Mrs Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give my support to this proposal for the Social Democracy Club, and I thank the petitioners that it has been presented in this way, and I hope that it will also be approved without doubt. After all, we are at the beginning of the debate in the Chamber of Deputies and, for example, those reservations, by your means, which have been raised by the parties of the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee from the point of view of sanctions, are undoubtedly solvable in the course of further committee discussions. I would still like to report for Miroslav Toman, the Minister of Agriculture for Social Democracy, that a proposal will be submitted, some of the contributions here have called for it, so just to make an announcement that this proposal will be tabled. It will be an amendment to the Act on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, the amendment to the Veterinary Act and then the amendment to the relevant decree on the establishment of conditions for breeding dogs and cats. This proposal should be discussed by the Government at some point at the turn of February and March, and then, as a whole, it would be possible for the House committees to be discussed so that the Members and Members, at the third reading, have a comprehensive idea not only of the penalty plane, as provided for in the parliamentary proposal, but also of other matters. Now, what should this be about? It can therefore be announced that this will possibly concern the law on the protection of animals against abuse, the definition of the breeding plant of dogs or cats. It can also be announced that some obligations will be tightened up and transferred directly to the law, such as the maximum number of litters in two years, the minimum age of puppy for collection. It also tightens up the responsibilities of the breeder of each bitch to keep the registration sheet of the puppy, increases penalties and also tightens up the breeding and reproduction conditions of dogs and cats in the decree. A model of the register of the puppy shall also be introduced. In the case of veterinary law, data in the information system and competence of the State Veterinary Administration will be strengthened, numbers of chip bitches will be introduced, all bitches in the breeder's household will also be included in the reporting obligation, because this is not the case yet, and the number of subjects subject to notification will also be specified. The sanctions will rise again. Here only in the case of the veterinary law and the Animal Protection Act against Abuse, I would like to call on us not to be frightened by the increase in sanctions, because it is necessary for this penalty mechanism to work so that if these sanctions are not sufficient, criminal repression is now taking place as an ultima ratio. So much on my part, and once again I thank the petitioners for doing this, because I think it's not just a social order resulting from some unnamed newspaper, but it's a serious matter and we should have dealt with it a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u23	Thank you. Would anyone please be interested in speaking in the general debate? He doesn't. I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? Yes, please, plaintiff. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm just very brief. Thank you for the words of support and for any complaints that have already been raised here. Of course it's for discussion. We are, of course, all ready for this discussion, as we have both already announced here, both I and the rapporteur, and I believe that the professional public, who has been involved in this for a long time, will be happy to participate in this. So it is not a new law, as one of the speakers said here, it is an amendment to the Criminal Code, so we are not implementing anything fundamentally new, virtually. We don't bring a whole new law. We are simply trying to deal with the unfortunate practice that is happening here in the Czech Republic, and we are trying to suppress this phenomenon as much as possible. So I think that this is a legitimate objective and, of course, the way to it can take different forms, and so let's talk about what is specifically on the proposal for changes or for some correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u25	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. In the meantime, I have called for the vote of Members who are not here in the Chamber. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? He doesn't. So we will vote on bringing the proposal forward to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 181, 171 Members registered, for 144, against no one. The proposal was adopted and the Guarantee Committee for this proposal will be the Constitutional Legal Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee? Yes, Mr Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, co-workers, I suggest we put them on the agricultural committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u27	Yes, a proposal for an agricultural committee. Mrs Balcarová will also speak with the proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u28	I have a proposal that this amendment be tabled or discussed in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u29	Yes. Is there any other proposal? It's not. So we will now decide whether to bring this proposal to the committees as proposed. I'm hearing a request for a check-out. I checked you out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. [[He's waiting a while.]] We will now vote on this proposal to be dealt with by the Agricultural Committee. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 182, 149 Members signed in for 122, versus 16. The motion was accepted. We have ordered this proposal to the agricultural committee. There was also a proposal to the Environment Committee on the commandment. We will vote on this now. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 183, 151 Members signed in for 48, versus 42. The motion was not accepted. This means that this proposal will be dealt with as a guarantee committee by the Constitutional Committee and by the Agricultural Committee. That concludes the discussion of this point. [[There are voices from the diaper: Extension of the deadline.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Please remind me what we're going to vote on. I didn't have it in my notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u30	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President. In the debate, I proposed an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-12-ps2017-026-09-008-064.u31	Yes, thank you for the heads-up. We will therefore vote on this proposal to extend the deadline by 20 days. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 184, 152 Members signed in for 146, versus 1. The motion was accepted. The deadline was extended by 20 days. I thank the appellant, the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. From today's meeting between 17.30 and the end of the day, Mr Marian Jurečka apologizes for reasons of work.
