ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u1	10. Government bill on compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination /German press 451/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health, will state the draft bill. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already detailed the bill at first reading, so let me briefly mention the main reasons for its adoption. At present, there is no legal title in our legal order on the basis of which a person who has suffered injury to health as a result of compulsory vaccination, i.e. vaccination carried out on the basis of the law, could successfully obtain compensation for this injury. The draft law also provides for the right of a person close to compensation for the damage to his/her mental distress in the event of killing or particularly serious injury to the health of his/her loved one who has undergone compulsory vaccination. [[16.10 hours]] The proposed bill states that the State will atone for the injury to health resulting from the compulsory vaccination. In the event that such injury to health is compensated as a result of an incorrect procedure by the health service provider who carried out the vaccination or when the injury is due to a defect of the vaccine, the State has the right to require a regression payment. In view of the fact that injury as a result of the administration of the vaccine is generally very difficult to demonstrate, the proposal does not always require a causal link to be established. It provides for a rebuttable presumption that if there are consequences which will be the content of the implementing decree, i.e. the health consequences at the time indicated therein, the injury will be considered to be caused by compulsory vaccination. In other cases, the assessment of whether injury is caused by compulsory vaccination will be the subject of standard evidence. The basic rules governing compensation for injury to health are laid down in the Civil Code, which is applied subsidiously. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that is very briefly all there is to this at the moment. I don't think it's necessary to go into detail. Much has already been said at first reading. And I believe that, as we have seen the amendments, that they will not be so many and that the basic principles of this regulation will simply be respected, because from our point of view, it is indeed a debt that we have in our legal order, and so I ask that it be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u3	Thank you, too. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 451/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, take the floor now, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u4	Hello, Mr President, dear government, colleagues. The Minister has explained both the intention and the content of the bill in question. Then I won't repeat myself again. We're at second reading. I am merely saying that the Health Committee or the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies met twice on this bill. The following resolution was adopted at the second meeting. After the opening word, Mgr et Mgr Adam Vojtěch, the Minister of Health, and the report by Dr. Alena Gajdůšková, the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, first recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agree with the Government's proposal for a law on compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination, the House Press 451, and empowers the Committee's rapporteur, Alena GajdůGajdůšková, to familiarise the Committee's position with the House meeting. The recommendation is obvious. I will just add that, until today's date, I am registering two amendments in the House of Deputies system. One is the chairwoman of the committee, Professor Adámková. The second Mr. Dr. Kaňkovský, Mr. MP. I assume that the petitioners will justify these proposals because they are already entered into the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u5	Well, thank you. And I will introduce you to the apology of Mr Pávek, who apologizes between 16.00 and 17.30 on account of negotiations. And I am now opening up a general debate to which two Members are currently enrolled. First Mrs Adámková, then Mr Kaňkovský. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u6	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we are getting to the second reading, to discuss a very important law that will certainly improve the situation that is in our medical system. Unfortunately, it is true that vaccination in addition to its undoubtedly positive role, which of course has completely changed the whole view of infectious diseases in particular, brings unfortunately some things that are very serious and unfortunately can end in very serious damage to health. So I am very glad that we have this law here and that we can discuss it. Of course, as it happens, and the moment the law came into space, there were a number of very practical things that really improve the view of the thing, so let me read these two minor modifications. One. Article 2 where the extent of the injury compensation is concerned. The State shall replace the person who has been subject to compulsory vaccination by the health service provider, or not to vaccination that would not be traceable, the burden of social application caused by compulsory vaccination and shall bear the costs incurred effectively in the care of the person vaccinated and in the care of the person or his household to the person concerned. And that is because really looking at a child who is disabled is very difficult, and then it is necessary to take care of these families a little bit in the wider sense. The State shall grant compensation to a person close to the person vaccinated for mental distress if, as a result of compulsory vaccination, there is killing or particularly severe injury to the health of the person vaccinated. Because unfortunately, we can't rule out this eventuality, even though it's obviously very thin. Two. For paragraph 5, we are inserting a new paragraph 6, which came out of practice again, which shows that, of course, we would assess the extent of the damage - and here we would be indebted especially to those children who would have been given health damage after compulsory vaccination if we had not given them proper treatment. Because some temperature or the fact that a child doesn't appear to be parents could only be blamed for the vaccination. And it wouldn't have to be from vaccination at all. It could be the beginning of a very severe disease, including haematological, acute leukemia, etc., which simply came at a time when we could say that it was after vaccination, so it would not pay enough attention. Therefore, in this amendment, we propose that the Ministry for the assessment of complex cases appoint an independent expert committee, where the members of this independent expert committee, which is appointed and dismissed by the Ministry, are always first of all representatives of the Ministry, who is always a medical professional, is also chairman of the Commission and directs its activities. Two health professionals qualified to perform a separate health profession in the relevant field of health care. The law cannot specify this any closer, because there may already be an assessment of the musculoskeletal system or the mental development of the child or other things. So there will always have to be a pediatrician, no doubt, of course, and then another expert and person who has received a university degree in a Master's degree programme in law. This is because we know from the field that, of course, many families are seeking this compensation, and unfortunately, they have no confidence to say, for example, in the medical facility that carried out the vaccination, of course, it is humanly understood, and it is necessary that they do not have to look around for themselves in order to know that the health system, in this case, the Ministry is thinking about it and therefore has a lawyer who is involved in this area and can advise them, possibly with that assessment. The members of this independent expert committee may never, please, be a person with regard to the vaccine or the provider who carried out the vaccination, where there would be any conflict of interest. That, of course, is completely excluded. An independent expert committee will discuss this case with the participation of the least over-half of these members, and it must always be there, even if only the majority of them meet, a medical worker. He could never be just a clerk and a lawyer. With all due respect for all education, of course. This independent expert committee will examine the case on the basis of the patient's medical documentation, other facts it finds and draw up an entry which it shall immediately transmit through the chairman of the Commission to the Ministry, where clear conclusions will be drawn from cases with a clear indication of whether the injury to health is due to compulsory vaccination or whether they have doubts and there must be further examinations, which will then determine the correct diagnosis. So it won't be, in which case we're actually ruling out an option that we can now sometimes see in the field that it's impossible to rule out, or it probably occurred as a result of the vaccination, here it has to be clear. Because if we just admit that what doesn't seem to those parents, where there really can be damage, that it's after the vaccination, if there were any doubt and we didn't go on, we could really overlook the very serious diagnoses that these kids would have damaged all their lives, because it would have been said that it's only in the quotes after the vaccination. So we dare to make this slight change, which I have now said quite comprehensively, so I apologise, but I wanted you to understand why we are doing this, giving 3543 as a House press, is in the system. [[document]] It is therefore this small amendment. Thank you and I beg his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u7	Thank you, too. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Kasal, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, on the one hand, have a question for both the professor and the minister. I fully agree with this amendment, and only so that the Commission can work accordingly, so there is one thing that is necessary, and that binding procedures are drawn up. Because the moment there's a reaction after the vaccination, the baby's hospitalized in the hospital. And when it is, let's say, in six months there are high fevers, there's a change in behavior, so that the committee can correctly assess whether it's the development of a serious disease, or if it's a reaction to vaccination, it should be taxatively listed as having magnetic resonance imaging, spinal puncture, and so on, what's consistent with that. So binding procedures should be developed for such situations and it should be agreed with the paediatric society. That's why I'm asking if it's a changeling, or if we're going to turn to the Minister, we need to get this done. Then it'll definitely work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u9	Thank you, too. Mrs Adámková, in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u10	I just thank Dr. Kasal for the reaction. Because he's definitely an intern and a pediatrician, so he chose the things that are. I don't think it's happy to put in the procedure that tests are supposed to be in the law, because we don't want the law to be valid for six months or a year, but to set general rules. And if it turns out in a year that we have a new method, and it wouldn't have been named, we wouldn't have put it into it. So then it's a matter of the Ministry's decree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u11	Thank you. The Minister will also want to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Kasal. I'm sure that's a very good point. I agree with what the professor said, that it should not be put directly into the law, that such a thing may not be entirely necessary to regulate in the law, but it is about some technical procedure and recommendations. And I'm sure we'll be consulting with professional companies, both pediatric companies, vaccinationologists, and so on. So I think there's a match here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u13	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Kaňkovský, for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u14	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. For the KDU-ČSL club, I can say that we support the proposed bill - I said it here at first reading - because it addresses the issue that has been calling the public for a long time. I, at first reading, mentioned some specific reservations about the proposal. It was not militant, it really was more of a practical point. But I can once again say that the objective that follows the bill is clearly supported by me and the KDU-ČSL. At second reading, I would like to mention only one area which I have decided to address with the amendment, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. And there is a need to realize, and it has already been mentioned here by Professor Adámková, that for every family where there is some serious health damage as a result of compulsory vaccination, for each family it is a great stress, it is a great intervention in their family life. A disabled family has to deal with the child's disability in every possible way. Most of the time, it means taking care of a number of tools, having to completely reorganize her life, and often it means changing her parents' employment. And it's important to admit that sometimes the family doesn't last, too, and they fall apart. That means it's a very serious stress situation for the family. And I consider it not entirely happy that the family - which, of course, wonders why this happened, and often, with some anger, also turns to the health facility that applied vaccination, and although the health facility in the vast majority, I would like to stress this, in the vast majority of cases it has no guilt, it has not caused any misbehaviour of the health facility, so trust between the family and the health facility is impaired. And under these circumstances, I don't think it's happy that this family, if they want to claim compensation, will have to request medical documentation from that particular medical facility and then deliver it to the Ministry of Health on that request. That is my amendment, where I would like this burden of proof to be provided by the Ministry of Health. I know it's gonna be an extra job for the Health Department, but I think it's gonna be a less stressful procedure for both the damaged family and after all. And what we're gonna tell ourselves is not an easy situation for the paramedics. So many amendments, which I will then formally sign up for in that detailed debate. Otherwise, I welcome this proposal and I firmly believe that its legislative pilgrimage will be successfully completed and that it will be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u15	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr Válek in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to follow up, through Mr President, on my colleague Kaňkovský. I can say for TOP 09 that I am very pleased that this law is professional and that therefore a broad consensus can be found on it regardless of political affiliation. I am very pleased that a number of people have opened up the issue, and I would just like to ask that, as part of the law, we get at least the substantive intention of implementing decrees from the Ministry of Agriculture. Sorry, health services. I already have you as everything, Minister. . I'll explain why. There was a change in the determination of brain death a time ago, when it came to legislation that the determination of brain death was not as it traditionally was done only by means of digital subtraction angiography, but also by means of a brain CT, and an implementing decree was established by the Ministry, which defines it in agreement with a professional society, in this case anesthesiological and neurological. The problem is, no one has said how to do the brain CT and when the description says it's brain death and when it's not. A specialist company in charge of the description of the brain CT, a radiological company, said that it cannot be defined somehow and that such a description does not actually exist. So the workplace that started using this decree to do a brain CT to determine brain death, so actually, the description always ends by not being able to determine whether or not it's brain death. It's a very technical issue. Unfortunately, the decree did not go in parallel with the law. And in this case, I don't think it's a similar problem. It is again a law that is very technical. And it was said here by some of my previous speakers that some things would have to be dealt with from the logic of the matter by decrees. Therefore, I would be very proud to ask that the material intentions of these decrees go to the committee for second reading, so that we know what is in them, so that we can make up for any confusion. The second thing I'd like to mention. It's probably a fact that part of the public has a distrust of vaccination. And our role as paramedics, our role as Members, our role as elected legislators, and the role of the Ministry of Health is to convince the public that these concerns are in many cases odd, unfounded and often given by the fact that the information from Dr. Google has not been fully understood. I think that now we have a unique opportunity to correct legislation, correct decrees to dampen these concerns as far as possible and to encourage them to accept as much of our population as possible, that mandatory vaccination, re-inoculation is really one of the great achievements of modern medicine and to say anything else is a mistake. So let's conclude. In this case, I think that TOP 09 will support this law and sensible amendments. [[Nesroz.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u17	Thank you, too. Mrs Richterová has also signed up for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u18	I will add very briefly to the debate behind the Pirates Club that we are also very happy that this bill has been tabled. In the same way, we are joining the request that we have a view of the committee's own anticipated wording of the accompanying decrees, because the devil will be hiding in detail, in the wording of the very decrees. [[16.30 hours]] We also want to put in a good word for a sufficient amount being allocated in the draft budget, because again - it will be about how the state will then be able to live up to what it often promises to those very unhappy parents. And I would perhaps also stress what has also been said here that the support of health facilities will also be needed to simply cope with this new obligation in a kind of dignified way, because these are very difficult and often very ambiguous situations. Once again, it is very good that this law will probably be adopted soon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u19	I thank and please Mr Ventruba, who has yet to volunteer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, I would also like to say that we feel the way previous speakers have said it, as we have actually discussed in the Health Committee on vaccination. There were my previous speakers who said what happened to brain death, etc., I mean my fellow radiologist. I'd like to say that as a neurosurgeon, I have a lot of experience with this. These are things that are really serious. And now I'm gonna go back to the vaccination. Why? Because you know that the vaccinations are two types or two types. The first type is the vaccination when the newborn or the baby is vaccinated, and we're actually protecting him - only him, whether it's tetanus, etc. And then there's the second group of vaccinations where we actually have a responsibility, or the state has a responsibility for the whole company. I remember when I was a kid, we were just vaccinated against measles, black coughs, etc. and the diseases weren't. You know well that when the conditions were released, and now they are you - and I received many letters from one side and the other, why to inoculate and not to inoculate, I even had a child in my department from an infectious clinic in a children's hospital who was affected after the vaccination, but I think it's very good that the state is taking responsibility for the fact that the compulsory vaccination would cause damage to health. But I would be right - what my colleague Válek said through, but I don't have to say through, I don't address him what my colleague Válek said, that the prevention and persuasion of parents is so important that they really manage to inoculate society in a way that protects it. And so, as we approve today, how parents or individuals who are affected will be compensated, we still need to find some way of legislation to protect society when parents, in fact, threaten society with their sometimes irresponsible actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u21	Thank you, too. That was the last application for a general debate at the moment, so if no one is reporting from the point of view, then I, the general - Mr Ferjenčík, is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u22	I just wanted to respond to my previous speaker, very briefly. I just wanted to point out that, in my opinion, the social pressure against people who do not inoculate their children is enormous and that, on the contrary, in today's situation, children of these parents are being punished for no reason, for example, because they cannot go on skiing or class trips and such things, and I think we should also talk about how to do this so that parents choose not to vaccinate, children who are over six years old, do not significantly interfere with life. In my opinion, the social pressure is, on the contrary, considerable and rather, we should talk about which measures are appropriate and which are not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u23	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Kasal, then Mrs Aulická, for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond to my previous speaker right away. In that case, however, Mr President, you also have to address the fact that those people who are going to treat these people, let us take an epidemic of measles - you will have a closed emergency income and then you will want to be treated there, I want to see how you are going to do it. And there'll be compensation for everyone, even the adults who got it. And you, if you want to be hospitalized afterwards, I'd be interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u25	Thank you. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond briefly to Mr Kasal. I said that I consider it absurd that children who normally go to school class are in daily contact with their classmates, are not allowed to go on class trips or ski training. I just consider it a completely absurd measure. And I don't understand how this has anything to do with measles epidemics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u27	Thank you. Mr Kasal is still reporting with a point of fact. I'm sorry, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u28	I've only been very brief. It's the very foundation of medicine that we learn in our first year. All you have to do is study it, colleague, and we don't have to talk about it here. But it's really about disease transmission, and the moment one group is vaccinated and the other isn't, that's where the transmission is. But we'll say that in the lobby, we don't have to deal with that here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u29	Now, Mrs Aulická to the debate from the point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u30	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a small contribution to this debate. I, too, might be a little bit of a favour to my colleague Ferjenčík by your means, Mr President. In a way, you're right that it's absurd. But that's what vaccination duty is all about. In fact, we say in one breath - if parents don't decide how the state is to enforce the duty. So maybe it would be good to turn it into this plane, too. Anyway, it's absurd, probably yes, the current legislation, the setting, because I'm not sure right now, I think there's just six days that this kid can spend in the group on the trip, and I think, even if there was a mandatory pre-school year, it was de facto forgotten about the legislation as part of the mandatory vaccination. Because, as today's legislation is built, it is de facto speaking senselessly and contradictoryly. But what I'd like to point out, parents, and I'm one of them who, of course, handled it. You're working all the way through the pregnancy to make the baby healthy, to make everything okay, and when you have a baby, suddenly you're dealing with a situation - we're gonna inoculate. Yes, it is true, and I think that we need to touch our hearts, especially in pediatricians, that not every pediatrician has the same approach in the course of vaccination, although of course there are some set parameters, how and when it is to be vaccinated, every pediatrician does not fully follow it. And those parents are primarily afraid of the vaccines themselves. Because the way we've been vaccinated, for example, me, so quite differently, children are being vaccinated today. And they usually say - we want to vaccinate, but we have a problem with the vaccines themselves, as they are modified today. And maybe that's the basis for what we should be getting away from in the future debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u31	Thank you, too. And if there are no other applications for debate or factual remarks, at this point, I am ending the general debate and I am asking if there is an interest in final words. The Minister is interested, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only very briefly to conclude. On that reminder that there was a lack of implementing legislation - it is not so. We know that, of course, this is a very important part - I also think that, according to legislative rules, implementing regulations are to be applied at once with the draft law, so the implementing decree is actually part of the House's press. So he's in the system, if anyone's interested, he can look at the House press. In the system, the implementing decree is recorded, where the health consequences are, so we can have the debate. [[16.40 hours]] Otherwise, to prevent it. I think, of course, it's appropriate, the education, etc. We have even pushed through the conciliation procedure for the next year that practical doctors for children and adolescents will have a new code, a new performance that is just about to be consulted on vaccination. We believe that this will also lead to greater motivation for pediatricians in the field to actually explain all aspects of vaccination, disprove various myths and so on. So this motivation will actually be set up as part of next year's payments. Otherwise, I think the debate was factual, and I'm glad to be supportive. If we have been discussing the issue of setting up some sanctions and so on, then believe us that at first reading, we are going to have an amendment to the Public Health Act, which addresses this area, so I think we are going to have a big debate on this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u33	Thank you, too. I would like to point out that it is indeed one of the powers of the House to apply for an implementing regulation if it is necessary for the law or for any other proposal. And now the rapporteur, Mrs Gajdůškovášková, is interested in the final word? It does not, in which case there have been no proposals that we should vote at this time, so I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs Adámková is the first to enter into a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this detailed debate, I am reporting to my amendment, which I have explained in detail in the general debate. And just because I'm here, I'm gonna take the liberty of saying one message to you first. It's a message from yesterday, very important. The Health Committee is dedicated to vaccination as a whole, i.e. vaccination, where we have one chance to prevent oncological diagnosis, this is the vaccination against human papillomavirus. And thanks, let's just say, to such concentrated pressure both from the Ministry of Health and the Health Committee, the inoculation in boys - not girls - has increased by a hundred percent since last December. But that's just for information, I'm just using or using a microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u35	Thank you. I would just like to point out that the proposal - at least I need to refer the number to the House document. I will now give the floor to Mr Kaňkovský. I presume that Mrs Adámková will then sign in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u36	Good afternoon again. Mr Vice-President, members of the Government, colleagues, I will now only formally sign up to the revised amendment, which you will find in the database under the number of House document 3546, and it is indeed a matter of requesting documents from a particular health institution by the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u37	Thank you. Mrs Adámková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u38	The House's press on the amendment I introduced you to has number 3543. [[document]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-017-010.u39	I also thank you and I think that this can be considered sufficient to justify signing up for the proposal. And if no one else is reporting for a detailed debate, at this point, I am ending the detailed debate. I ask whether there is again an interest in the final words by the Minister or by the rapporteur. It's not like that. There have not been any proposals that we should vote on at this time, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal and moving forward. I thank the Minister and thank the rapporteur. There's a point number 11, which is
