ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u1	244. Financing of social services - a real situation I ask that Mr Marek the Výborný take the floor, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. Do you agree, Mr. Ambassador? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Government, fellow Members, of course, I apologise to the Senator for interrupting the previous point, but the House resolution was this way on the basis of an agreement across the parliamentary clubs. We consider the point that we have now firmly, the financing of social services to be serious, and I would like it to be very short, and if the government, by extension, would clearly indicate to us the steps that the government is prepared to take. I'll take the short recap here. At the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 30 May 2019, we discussed - it was an extraordinary 31st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies - we discussed the whole topic very much and finally adopted a specific resolution. The first one, through the Government of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, imposed a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to finance social services for 2019 amounting to CZK 2 billion. This resolution was delivered by the government, namely the two ministries, and on 7 June 2019 the Minister - both of them - spoke here, shortly before holding a press conference, where they almost hugged, promised to go on holiday together and announced that social services in the Czech Republic were saved. Unfortunately, now and not in the time frame of Friday afternoon and half-second, it is necessary to tell what the real situation is. That's why the point is "real situation." It is such that both ministries, both the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, actually found in their reserves, each ministry, after half a billion crowns, and these funds are scheduled to travel to each region in the near future according to the distribution key and the regions will have these resources for both their contribution organisations and other social service providers within the non-profit sector and, of course, also for municipalities, because they are often also social service providers - they establish homes for seniors - and other facilities and institutions providing social services. However, this is the core of the problem, and that is why I can actually say here that this House was, when I say it very euphemistically, concocted by the government, namely one and the other Madam Secretary - the poodle core is hiding in another 1.5 billion, because here it sounded like the government actually fulfilled above expectations and beyond, beyond what was required, because in addition to the 1 billion, there is no one to contradict, it brings another 1.5 billion. And it didn't happen here either, that this 1.5 billion is meant for three years, for three-year funding, which means that if we take it around and around and divide it, we're going to find that it's 1.5 billion, even if it were to be this beautifully from these individual projects, and I understand that the Minister will argue that there is a possibility of accelerated drawing and that from that 1.5 billion it can be flew in 2019, but I consider it crudely unsystematic, because it is not possible to bail out the obligation of the state here in any way by using European funds to address the inability of the government and the inability of the ministry, or both ministries, to actually find the funds. And the more fundamental problem. So, even if they went to the argument that was made here and agreed to receive 1.5 extra in the individual projects of the region, then - and please nicely, that is the argument that was made from the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic by councillors and deputy ministers who are engaged in social services, and it is an argument that you can read on the websites of individual regions, where they are captains of the ANO movement, where the governors are for social democracy and others, it is clearly described there, and if you look at the statement signed by these regional representatives, it is clear - 1.5 billion of individual projects can only be used to finance programmes related to social prevention. And to be perfectly precise, I'm quoting what kind of social services this is. They are asylum homes for parents with children, asylum homes for individuals, asylum houses combined, halfway houses, personal assistance, support for separate housing, social therapeutic workshops, intervention centres, social activation services for families with children and social rehabilitation. Period. So you can't really find any other residence facilities like senior homes or anything like that. So it's obvious here that the 1.5 billion doesn't solve the problem in any way. And so if the counties figured it out, I'm going to give you some specific numbers here. Today, the Moravian-Silesian Region lacks CZK 418 million, the Pardubice region after the netting - because even if they used the money for the individual projects, they could use it up to CZK 17 million and will miss another CZK 40 million. So, unfortunately, what was presented here is not true. And what does that mean, or what does it do? The fact that the government has found one billion crowns so far will cause the problem to shift from early September to early November. And these individual facilities, whether they're senior homes, homes for mothers with children and so on, we could go on and on, for those who can't take care of themselves, for handicapped people, there is a problem at the beginning of November. The directors will either have to lay off, and they will still have to knock so it doesn't get cold enough to save some money for the operation. So I think this is completely irresponsible behavior, and I believe that after the reaction of the providers, because if you know the reactions, please, whether the directors of Diakonia, charity, Silesian Diaconia or finally Mr Horeckýý's reaction, who is the head of the umbrella organisation of social services providers, it is very obvious there. The government by this step, or the Ministry, merely caused the delay of the problem from the beginning of September sometime to the beginning of November. I believe the government is aware of that. Let me just remind you of the genesis of the whole problem. December 2018, approval of the state budget in conjunction with a well-founded and correct increase in salaries and a special bonus in social services, where the government promised here in December 2019 at the counter that these funds would be found, as they were in previous years, and will actually be provided to the regions, so that this thing - which, please, follows nicely from the Social Services Act. If you look there, if I'm not mistaken, paragraph 99, it's very clear. So it is the State's duty to participate in the services that the State has transferred to individual regions, municipalities, or then to provide a non-profit sector that receives the funds allocated from the state budget through the regional authorities. [[18.40 hours]] So I'd like to ask the Minister - and I'm saying this completely rationally, without any emotions, I think it's necessary to get away from this. Let's say it calmly. I believe that one billion crowns, whether on the MPSV or on the MF, can just find the government and that it's just stretching us here and stretching it out by 14 days. It's silly, because we've now been able to pursue the laws of the Senate and not deal with the financing of social services here. But unfortunately, I repeat, it was not us who caused this irresponsible government approach, namely the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So I believe that today's meeting is really the last, virtually. the resolution that I am about to load here will mean that, at some point on July 9th at the opening of the Chamber of Deputies, the Minister will perform and, in one paragraph in three minutes, he will announce to us without unnecessary theatre that the one billion has indeed been found and that the regions will be provided. And I repeat, this is not a political dispute. I don't really perform here in the interest of us, KDU-ČSL, opposition or anyone else. After all, it's the people who are the clients and the social services they need. And I find it absolutely strange that this government, in turn with the participation of social democracy, should behave socially. So I believe that everyone can do the math, that one billion will be found. The resolution I propose that we approve today is as follows: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Calls on the Government and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová to quickly, by the end of June, ensure from the state budget the missing funds of CZK 2 billion to finance social services, as the proposed solution of 7 June 2019 is only a partial solution, not a really necessary one; 2. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, through the Government, requires the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of 9 July 2019. So much for the resolution. Just to make no mistake, we don't want another two billion to go to that one billion, but we want one billion to go to that one billion, what we said from the start. I think we all understand each other. Thank you. I will be glad to hear this assurance, and we can continue this next programme of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u3	Well, thank you. I understand that both points of the resolution are still being asked to vote together? That's what you're gonna say. I am now initiating a general debate, in which first with the priority right, Minister Maláčová, and then we will go to the applications that we have on the board. In the meantime, I'll read two apologies. Mr Farský apologizes for meeting in the electoral region until the end of today's meeting, and then the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes from 18.30 on account of work issues. Then please, Madam Secretary. Your mike's on, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me tell you that I am very pleased that the emotions with which this matter of financing social services for 2019 has been commented have calmed down substantially since yesterday. Nevertheless, allow me to put a whole range of things that have been said here by President Excellent through Mr President, but also in the media over the past few days, to the right. Calculation of the financing of social services as a result of wage increases last year and as a result of the failure of the so-called "social services'. individual projects presented on 2 May 2019 The Association of Regions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as well as the Social Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic talks about a loss of CZK 1.9 billion. According to the calculation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but also the Association of Social Services Providers is the following components. 1. It is an increase in the special allowances resulting from the government decision of 17 December 2018, the impact of CZK 638 million for the regions. 2. The increase in salaries by 7 %, not the planned 5 which was included in the state budget, was the impact of CZK 360 million for the regions. A total of CZK 2 million. 3. A blackout, respectively. interruption of individual projects, impact of CZK 900 million. To this end, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has calculated an increase in special allowances and an increase in salaries of 7 percent, as was the case with the outage at the regions, amounting to CZK 81 million for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, for the so-called. above-regional social services, which, as you know, specialize in particular in citizens with autistic spectrum disorder or with multiple sclerosis. That means, that's the composition of the 2 billion crowns we've been talking about in the last few weeks. Here's what I'd like to say. First, the billion we give together with the Ministry of Finance, which the government decided yesterday, fully covers all salaries. It's the 7 percent increase over 5 percent and the increase in the special contribution. Yesterday we approved this step, and the government will act swiftly in accordance with the law, so that at the beginning of August the regions will have these funds in their accounts. This means that all social service providers will have at the end of the year to pay their employees. So I repeat, it's not true that he won't be on salaries. Secondly, the key moment I want to recall again. The county agrees with this agreement. Almost two weeks ago, it was June 7th, I agreed with the President of the Association of Regions and the region welcomed the agreement. Last week, I dealt with the chieftains, and I must say that no captain questioned this agreement to my face. So I don't consider this criticism material, but it's part of a political struggle. Thirdly, as I said yesterday, the KDU-ČSL approach and the Zlín Region, which is currently being managed by KDU-ČSL, can be an example. The Zlín Region according to our calculations - it is a long-term situation - gives only, or finances only one fifth of what is the average of all other regions except Prague, because Prague gives much more, and thus distorts the average. This means that they only give 4%, they finance the allocation allocated to the Zlín Region by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And if President Výborný says that the lower percentage is due to the fact that they have a different structure for social services providers, it only proves that they do not understand at all. The Zlín Region gives only 4 percent of what it receives from MPSV, and the entire Republic average is 20 percent without Prague, with Prague it would be many times higher. Just to give you an idea of how many different regions they give. Zlín Region - and we are talking about 2018 figures - 3.36 %. Central Bohemia Region 2018 - 22.8 %. Liberec Region 2018 - 21,18 %. Karlovarský kraj 11,39, Jihomoravský kraj 23,16, Jihočeský kraj 15,62, Region Vysočina 16,97, Ústecký kraj 22 %, Plzeňský kraj 11 %, capital Prague 153 %, Pardubický kraj 14,9 %, Olomoucky kraj 25,08 %, Moravskoslezský kraj 18,26 % and Královéhradecký kraj 28,61 %. You can see that these numbers differ considerably and the Zlín Region is from all regions including the capital city of Prague really with less than 4 percent of the worst. And my question is, when it comes to so much need, why does the Zlin Region contribute so little? [[18.50 hours]] Four. As for the second billion, and I think that is the fundamental question, where the regions wanted to finance the blackout from European money for individual projects. It was calculated, as I mentioned, at 900 miles. Crowns. And here they have 1.5 billion at their disposal. CZK in excess of its partial allocation. You see, the whole challenge is 8.08 billion. CZK, each region received its amount, with which it can manage over seven years, and 1.5 billion. is beyond this amount. I therefore disagree with Mr Výborný's criticism that the directors will not get to these finances. Providers will get to these funds as they have done a long time ago, through the regions that they must apply for. Last week, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs issued a press release with clear instructions and contact details on the worker concerned as quickly as possible to draw money from the European Union. You will find it on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we contacted all the regions proactively last week and I will be happy to provide all this detailed information once more in addition to this information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u5	I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the secretary can speak freely. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u6	The regions have two basic options for drawing additional funding from European funds. This is the Employment Operational Programme and the first option is that it either prepares a completely new project or extends the existing project, which is, of course, an easier way. But they can choose what path they will take from these two. However, the key thing is that new projects are eligible costs from 23 January this year, even if the project is not approved. This means that, if these funds have been drawn up, they are eligible from 23 January this year. At the moment, four regions have approved project plans, with a date from 1 January 2020. It is a region of Hradec Králové, Moravian-Silesian, Central Bohemia and Ústecký. At the Central Bohemia and Ústí Region we have information that they will want to start the implementation of the project sooner and adjust their project application by the end of this week, which means that there will be a submission of drawing or to accelerate the drawing. The Karlovy Vary Region submitted its project plan yesterday and substantial change by extending the project and the possibility of drawing from 23 January submitted by the South Bohemia Region, whose application is currently being assessed by the Program Partnership Platform. About 1.5 billion more. koruna, whether it is sufficient or not enough for three years. This is the maximum length of drawdown - three years. Once again, 1.5 billion. is above 8.08 billion. Crowns. It is money beyond expectations, beyond the so-called partial allocation with which each region should have managed for the entire programming period. Besides, out of these amounts, 1.5 billion. CZK, some regions already have this relocation within their individual projects approved. It is about Prague and Zlinsky region. Challenge No 5 and 6, which has been running since 2015, this means that the conditions are identical and do not change, sets the following limits, and this is very important for the evaluation of the whole system. I realize it's complicated, but you need to know all the facts. Aid applications must be submitted by the Region by 13 December of this year at the latest. All projects must be completed by 31. 10. 2022 and the project can last up to 48 months. It is important to know that these are the only barriers to drawing on these individual projects. I also note that from 1 January 2021 the new EU programming period is to start with new funds, i.e. with a simple calculation of 1.5 billion. Despite all the arguments that have fallen, they cover 900 miles. CZK, and they even go beyond the partial allocations that have been established. And what can and cannot be drawn from European funds for social services. And now, allow me, because it's very confusing, and I understand that this is a complex issue. From the Employment Operational Programme it is possible to promote the availability and development of preventive social services. These are services such as asylum houses, half-way houses, social therapeutic workshops, intervention centres, social activation services for families with children and social rehabilitation, and field social services such as personal assistance and support for independent housing. The call is therefore not focused on the financing of all types of social services that the Social Services Act knows, but is specifically, since the year it was announced, and the conditions are not changed now, focusing on addressing the needs of target groups such as disabled people, sheltered people, families with specific needs and so on. In the media, however, these services are mixed together with social services, such as homes for seniors or nursing services. I repeat that for these services intended primarily for the elderly and disabled, the government approved yesterday the financing of an increase in salaries and special allowances of 1 billion. Crowns. So these two things need not be confused. We're talking about 1 billion. financing a payout and more precisely 900 miles. as a maximum amount of coverage of the failure of so-called individual projects for this year. And since the terms of the challenge have been identical since 2015, I don't understand the argument...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u7	I'm really gonna ask you to calm down. If you have anything to discuss other than the contents of this point, please discuss it in the lobby. This is the third time I've asked for peace here, and the Minister has asked me to calm the situation for the third time. Please let him express himself. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u8	Thank you. And since the conditions of the call have been identical since 2015, I do not understand the argument that money for the failure of individual projects financed from the European Union cannot be financed from the same challenge. I really don't understand. I know this is a difficult issue, but if you do not understand this through Mr President, why not ask me and instead spread disinformation, Mr President, because the opposite is true. And eight regions out of a total of fourteen have already started to take action on this in recent weeks, and I think that is the best proof that this can be drawn. This is an agreement on European money. The Regional Association itself has concluded this by discussing negotiations from last week that it will evaluate by October how the regions manage to draw money from this EU, and I am ready to discuss the situation with them afterwards. I have also said several times that we will reduce the entire application and evaluation system from five and six months to two. And if the regions do not submit new projects, but extend the existing ones, it can be accelerated. Of course, it depends on the interaction. But, as I have already mentioned, the examples of individual regions that have begun to take place in the last few days confirm that this will be possible as quickly as possible. So let me get this straight. For me, the situation is that yesterday the government approved the financing of 1 billion salary losses. Crowns. That was the deal with the county. The second billion on EU projects and over-regional social services are also provided above-standardly. The county agreed to this agreement, and none of the chieftains said they wanted to change anything about it at the moment. The only people who have heard from us are opposition parties who, with all due respect, want to cook a hundred times boiled milk here, and for me, it's a political game without any support in the facts. But what I think the real problem is, and I think that this is something that we need to deal with for the future is an amendment to the Social Services Act. I have experienced this situation around the financing of social services, which according to my information happens every summer, for the first time, and I can assure you that it has only strengthened me in the need for a systemic change in the financing of social services. Last week, I presented the so-called starting point for the debate on the amendment to social services. I am discussing it completely and we will discuss it with all the actors. I think it is necessary to bring order into the financing of social services and the system and then to stabilise funding financially, but first we need to bring order into it, and then to stabilise financially. And you know that in this proposal, the Ministry comes up with things like multi-annual funding, social services spending as mandatorial expenses and so on. [[19.00 hours]] Let's solve some real problems here. Let's talk about how the system of financing social services and social services in general, how we put it together with common forces, so that our society is the enormous challenge we face, and that is the ageing of society, so that we can handle it. And I am very willing and will be very grateful for all the comments, comments, criticism of the amendment to the Social Services Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u9	Now I'll read three apologies. Mr Radek Koten apologizes from 19 a.m. to the end of the day. Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes further from 19.30 to the end of the day. She also apologizes to Mrs Majerová from 19 o'clock for work reasons. Now here I have two applications with priority rights, two factual and, consequently, Members registered on the board for the general debate. So they will be the first to go with the factual remarks made by Mr Bělobrádek and prepare Mr Jurečka, then priority rights - Minister Schillerová is prepared and prepared by the rapporteur, also with priority rights, Mr Výborný. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I think it is to say that KDU-ČSL is ruling in the Zlín Region, that they may have it in some other parties. We are there in the coalition, including with government parties, or with government parties, but I can assure you that negotiations not only at the level of the governor, but also with those who have their competence in social services at the ends were not idyllic and some regional councils - for example, yesterday our Hradec kings called for the Association of Regions, virtually. She asked the government to find the missing money, of course, because the money is missing. And that - as you rightly said - European money cannot be used for everything, and that is the problem, because it cannot be used for things that relate to residence services especially of seniors and disabled people, and that is, of course, a gros. And I believe that it is necessary if you want to argue that you don't use such things as that someone doesn't understand anything. I think he's beneath a member of the government. And of course, the level of government members has gone down quite a bit lately, so we're quite used to it, the level of communication. But I don't think you need it. And please consider this as a positive criticism that you may have wanted, I hope, not just in the Social Services Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u11	Another with a factual remark, Mr Marian Jurečka. And Mrs Jana Mračková will be prepared for a factual one. Ambassador, about your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u12	Thank you. Madam Secretary used such a good tactic and I will respond to it in my factual way - distracting attention from the main topic, and that is the missing means. And she's brought up the argument. She's been pointing to Zlinsky County for the second day. Well, since she's hitting the smash like that, I'm happy to play the smash back. Madam Secretary, by 2016 he ruled in the Zlín Region by using your terminology here, which governor, which political party? ČSSD. Eight years it's been your grub. That contribution from the region you're talking about was crappy CZK 20 million in 2016. And I'll explain why the amount isn't so small. However, after two and a half years of ruling the KDU-ČSL coalition, YES, ODS and STAN, the amount is CZK 61 million. In two and a half years, it tripled in this coalition. But it is also fair to say that the differences between regions are due to the degree of how much equipment is set up by individual regions. I'm saying this here because if people are looking at it, they understand that you're here mixing purposeful pears with apples. Please, Madam Secretary, don't do this, it's not correct, just as it's not correct to say it's the highest budget, because those things are just relative to the situation of that year. The situation isn't good, and that's why we're supposed to deal with it. So please, so much for the correctness of the debate I had to give the numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u13	Another with the factual remark of Mrs Jana Mračková and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. I have two applications so far. Please, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would merely like to confirm in my opinion that, on 11 June, the Council of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, where our Social Commission had previously acted, where this issue was discussed. I would ask Mr. Výborný if he could listen to me at this point - thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u15	Please address yourself only through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u16	I'm sorry, through. Well, I hope I have a time limit now that I can handle it. The resolution reached by the Regional Association Council, which means the majority of the governors, is as follows: the members of the Board have taken note of the conclusions of the extraordinary meeting of the Social Affairs Commission, which was held on 11 June, and have decided to impose on the Commission an evaluation of the impact of the financial commitment of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the financing of social services and individual projects for 2019 until the next Council meeting, which will take place at the turn of September and October. I would like to say from this point of view, because there is a lot of talk here about the Zlín Region, that the resolution was also voted by the Governor of the Zlín Region, and the President of the Pardubice Region voted in favour of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u17	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, the last application so far - Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u18	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. Unfortunately, I too have to respond to the Minister's words. She's throwing numbers from the Zlín Region here for purpose. I'll fill in my colleague Marian Jurečka. In 2016, the budget approached, or the budget of the Zlín Region, which supported the financing of social services, was slightly over 20 million. But in 2015, because it wasn't before the regional elections, it was 11, or something over 11. And I have to say, it's not just about funding. I have participated in a number of working groups in the last parliamentary term, and I must say that I would not want to publish the experience of providers from the Zlín Region from that period. So I think, yes, let's talk about the present, let's talk about the situation in the regions, of course. We also know that the coefficients set by the big amendment to the Social Services Act in the last parliamentary term are no longer functional. We all know that not all regions are in line with the current needs of social services. And the Minister as Secretary of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs knows that very well. That means, let's not use the numbers from one county here, but let's really talk about the whole republic problem, because it's correct. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u19	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Jan Bauer. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u20	Thank you. I would just like to reiterate my and our sincere efforts simply to help, to find funding for the financing of social services. And I confess that unlike the last statement by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, when she told us with great pomp that I was pleased to announce to you, or the speech began "I am pleased to tell you, I have good news for you," so I feel that the problem has not really been solved. And I would not want the Chamber of Deputies and Members to get into the role of judges, whether or not the problem has been resolved, although I do not think it has been resolved. And I would just like to read here, first, the resolution of the Vice-Presidents, who subsequently responded to the agreement, which is that we, the representatives of the regions listed below responsible for the social area, fundamentally disagree with the proposed solution for the financing of social services in 2019, as presented publicly by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová on 7 June 2019. And among other things, I also have a press release from the Association of Social Services Providers. And I just want to prove that this isn't a priori really some opposition dispute between the opposition and the government, or the ministry, whether or not money is, but it's just independent institutions dealing with this issue. The Association also notes that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs only sends 1 billion to social services, not the missing 2 billion. So it's just a statement of what's actually happening right now. I feel that even the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is obliged to ensure, or to secure, the missing money, has not been fulfilled. And I must confess that I am extremely dissatisfied with the answer presented here by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u21	I also thank you for the time being, and now with priority right, I will ask for the speech of Minister Alena Schillerová and Mr Marek, rapporteur, will prepare himself Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject on the financing of social services is undoubtedly extremely serious. It resonates with public space and has an absolute priority because it affects those who cannot do without the help of the state, and believe that our government certainly knows that. In no way does the government underestimate the issue of financing social services and social work, which it has proved, as has already been said here by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, in yesterday's adopted Government resolution on the financing of social services for 2019. However, I believe that our common goal is to clearly identify and name the problem, to free ourselves from politically motivated emotional rhetoric and to find a very concrete solution, which I hope has been found now, and we will look for it in the future. We all know, and I have said it repeatedly here that the financing of social services is, and we assume that it will continue to be, multi-source, and therefore it cannot be expected that the constant increase in the cost of social services will mostly be uncovered from the state budget. If we agree that figures are an objectively measurable argument, I would like to remind you that over the last five municipalities' tax revenues have increased by 33 percent, it has been a total increase of 56.1 billion. CZK and also budget forecast for 2019 expect annual growth of 6.9 percent, representing 15,7 billion. CZK, and in 2020 and 2021 we expect a further increase in tax revenues of more than 4% per year. Similarly, regional government revenues are developing favorably. In 2019 we expect growth to increase by 7,5 percent, in absolute terms it is 5.2 billion. Kč. We all know that the figures and facts clearly confirm that social policy has never been supported by the state more than in recent years, with the current budget for 2019 being absolutely record-breaking in this respect. I'm repeating it here again. This year's social services funds amount to 15,7 billion. CZK, which is CZK 4.5 billion. CZK more than two years ago and by 800 miles. more than in the previous year. Again, compared to 2014, when social welfare subsidies started to rise, 2014 - before that, they were decreasing, and they were decreasing, there was an increase of 104 percent in this year's budget. At the same time, the share of state budget subsidies in the financing of social services only between 2015 and 2017, and now, please note, has increased from 26,7 % to 50 percent. So the state already participated in the amount of 50 percent in 2017. Now, of course, it's a little bit more. There's repeatedly criticism -- and that's the result -- that's what I said here, I don't want to repeat myself, so I'm just gonna say facts that didn't come out. There has been repeated criticism of the lack of funding in social services. I'm not going to repeat what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs said. Yesterday we agreed on a billion, she explained here in detail why we are not questioning the billion in any way, and explained how it will set up the draw from the Employment Operational Programme. And why shouldn't we make a priority use of European money? We will draw Czech national? And with your second breath, will you challenge me to a balanced state budget? So I think that European money must always take precedence. And you're already assuming you won't run out? Do you already know that when the Department of Labour and Social Affairs here creates maximum assumptions for drawing? Let's say it with a little distance. But I'd like to talk more about other things. Yesterday, we did not accept only the solution of money in the resolution in the government and actually mention the acceleration of the drawing of the Employment Operational Programme, where the Minister was able to re-allocate the money, but we also discussed that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs would prepare an analysis by the end of August, and that will be what I am very interested in, and here is the space to cooperate. How do you help this thing, Prime Minister Výborný? In addition to dehonesting the Prime Minister, you accuse them of fraud and attacking the state budget to collect cheap political points? That's all you do! You'd be more helpful if you worked together, because this government doesn't distinguish what kind of jersey the governor is in. We don't care. We treat everyone the same way, whether it's the YES movement, for social democracy or for KDU-ČSL. Exactly the same, because the captains run the captains, they run the county territory, and they're there for the people. And it must be indifferent to what jersey they're in. And you should help! And help by working together to find the truth. I am contacted by x different people, everyone begs me for anonymity or write to me and warns me about the abuse of these subsidies. They're often very tedious stories. So what I'm asking is, are we so sure that the money's getting to the needy, or are we ending up with who knows where? And these are all things that I hope will reveal the analysis. And I'm waiting for that, and you should help with that instead of attacking the government and insulting the secretary here who, unlike you, is looking for a solution. In previous speeches, I have repeatedly pointed out that financing solutions cannot only be sought in increasing the amount of funds distributed to social work and social services, but in how they are distributed. And that's what I'm gonna care about, and it's gonna interest our government. There is also no doubt that the financing of social services must be based primarily on such mechanisms that system participants, that is, the client and the service provider, have reason to behave effectively, efficiently and economically. The client has an indisputable right to decide how his money and the means by which the State contributes to cover the increased cost of living related to his disability will be realized, which services he will purchase. We left the bed subsidy system in 2006. Let's discuss whether he was fairer. We started with this subsidy system, which led us to where we are now, to the fact that every spring we play a color of pressure on the state budget without looking for the essence of the problem. So if you want to be constructive about the opposition, help find the problem. You're in the regions, help us find out where the money is going and if it really goes to the most necessary, because that's all our government will care about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u23	Now I'll read the apologies. Until the end of the day, Mr Dominik Feri apologizes for reasons of work, the Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík apologizes until the end of the day for reasons of work, and Mr Vojtěch Munzar apologizes from 19 a.m. to the end of the day for reasons of employment, and Mrs Monika Jarošová apologises from 19 a.m. to the end of the period. Now here I have two factual points, three already. So I ask for Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's speech and Mr Marian Jurečka will prepare himself. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to say briefly that there has been a 29 percent increase in central budget revenue over the last five years, so the increase in revenue in the central government is comparable to that of governments. I don't think it's entirely fair to use that percentage increase in self-government as an argument why the central government doesn't want to give them money when the central government is also increasing rapidly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u25	Thank you. I am now going to ask Mr Marian Jurečka to speak and prepare for Mr Jan Bauer in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u26	A few things. Madam Secretary, if you're aware that something is being abused somewhere, I'm sure you know how you're supposed to do it. That's point one. Next point. You say, "Come work with us." We work together, our Deputys are often vice-president of the social field. In some regions where we had the opportunity to have a captain, we set up a system of long-term funding for social services. We're interested. But for heaven's sake, Madam Secretary, both of you, get down from that tree, get down from that ministry, I challenge you, let's go together for a day or a half a day, visit charity, diacon, some facility, roll up those sleeves, and let's go with those nurses, go through their day-to-day work with those nurses, so you know what we're talking about. I'm saying this because I'm a member of Charity Olomouc's charity council, providing thousands of people with that care. I've been through many of these facilities, my sister has been doing palliative care for several years. I know how hard it is to do. You're talking about something you practically have no idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u27	With another factual remark, Mr Jan Bauer. He will prepare for Mr Bělobrádek in fact. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Today, as an ODS MEP, I have taken the liberty of proposing, as a proper item, the control of the resolution adopted by this Chamber of Deputies on 31 May of this year, and only to the fact that I am sorry that this resolution has not been adopted, I would like to say that I am pleased with what the Government of the Czech Republic is dealing with, but I would just like to point out, and thus, through the President, I appeal first to the Minister of Finance. 31 May The Chamber of Deputies, regardless of the political coloration in an effort to help solve social matters - one of the twelve resolutions is that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to impose immediately - there is the deadline immediately - to submit an analysis of the current multi-source financing of social services. I am only saying this because I have no reason to stand up for some political colleagues, but it is not entirely fair to ask political opponents what you are helping. We have all helped by adopting this resolution, among other things. Secondly, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs, through President Jano Maláčová, you know that a resolution was adopted on 31 May, which reads: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to present, by 25 June - among other things, next Tuesday, please, just so you know, Madam Secretary, through the President, the Committee on Social Policy, the substantive intention of the Government amendment to the laws on social services. Did you know to present it? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u29	Thank you. Now Mr Bartošek has a point of fact. I missed you by mistake, so now you and then Mr. Bělobrádek. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will shortly follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Bauer. The problem is that the representatives responsible for the social area in the letter they sent wrote - the letter is longer than it was quoted - it is said that the proposed method of financing further deepens the instability in the sustainability of social services and disproportionately, and in the time constraints, administratively burdens both service providers and individual regions. The MPSV was well aware before approving the state budget that it would not be realistic to draw funds from the OPZ on social prevention services and therefore proposed an amount of CZK 800 million to the State budget for 2019 that would cover the EU's outage. Unfortunately, this request was not accepted, which was one of the things proposed by the people's people, for example. And you guys are talking about cobwebs and numbers like a duvet, and yet it's very simple. The people in practice are clearly saying that your proposed solution is odd. It's very simple, and I'm returning it to the discussion that was here a few weeks ago, or days ago, it doesn't really matter. You're going to finance these services, aren't you? Or the missing money - you say: nice regions, touch your budgets and fund it if you don't want people to get laid off. What I find most sad is that at this point, I really see social democracy as the weakest link in the entire chain that betrays its program and betrays the most necessary. Unfortunately, letting the movement roll you is your fault.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u31	I will now ask for a factual remark from Mr Bělobrádek. That's the last application so far. Please. Now I have another Mrs Gajdůšková. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u32	Thank you, Mr President. The Secretary of Finance could give a lecture on how well-manipulated the performance is. I think she might actually be giving a lecture. I have to pay my respects, he's really very good at it. I'm convinced of three things. The first is that it says "come work together" to a party that has always dealt with a lack of funds in social services in the long run, whether we were in government or not. Then every time the budget was made, just think about it, over the last few years, and we've been trying to figure out what our deputy chieftains are doing in some regions, and that's multiannual funding for social services so that social services is clear at least elementaryly, how much money is going to be there in the future. Secondly, for those European money that - if I'm not mistaken, there wasn't a lot of demand with them, because they were sort of ahead of time, and that's not any extra money, on the contrary, the billion is missing. With us in the Hradec Králové Region from the 100 million it will go down to 50, but still there are missing. And the important thing is that the European money isn't certain because that's where it has to be drawn, and those providers and operators don't know if they're gonna have the money or not. Third thing. I don't think there's any insults. On the contrary, if you say that you solved the situation, and those people in the field tell you that they didn't, you probably just promised the money that they were already counting on. And not only on salaries, not only on performance, but also on investment, of course. Those two billion are the minimum. And the fact that the Treasury Secretary here is talking about raising money to social services, well, they are. We are also growing continuously seniors, pensioners and also continuously increasing the cost of the state's pension. It's logical, isn't it? So the numbers game was really masterful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u33	Now, with Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková's factual comment, and so far the final factual application for a factual remark, so that is an event. Mr Marek will prepare the Výborný if we don't get another factual one. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the third time, for the fifth time, we are discussing an extraordinary point in the financing of social services. Both Secretary Schillerová and Secretary Maláčová and Mrs Vildumetzová, as regional chief, were really trying to find solutions. By the way, the solution through the TV screen was more or less accepted by the KDU-ČSL commander Mr Čunek. I've had a lot of disagreements with him, but he's basically accepted this. And I am sorry, and I am truly sorry for my KDU-ČSL colleagues that they are constantly attacking social democracy. It really affects me personally, because I am convinced that we should be together as democratic parties and historically the oldest parties in this matter, taking care of people, helping people. I don't feel the KDU-ČSL's efforts here to really deal with things. All I see is taking political points. I'm sorry, colleagues. I am truly sorry, through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u35	Thank you. Now one apology. The Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, apologizes from 19.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Now with a point of fact - I have two applications, so as the first Minister Maláčová to prepare Mr Jurečka. Madam Secretary, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Two things, first of all, to Mr Bauer through Mr President. I sent those two requests last week to Mr. Vondráček, President of the House, and I suspect that the copy was also made for Mrs. Maxová's Social Committee Chair, so it was done for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. [[19.30 hours]] Just a technical note. There is no substantive intention in the existing law, it is not done in the novel. However, we have sent out a basis that actually fulfils the form of material intent and describes in a very precise way what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs intends to change, how and why. The second thing that concerns - once again, I would like to respond to Mr Bělobrádek through the President. But the whole thing's worth a billion pay cuts, seven percent instead of five, raises and extras. That's the first part. And 900 million blackouts on individual projects from the European Union. That's what we've been talking about for months. And we've complied with that request. I'm not gonna involve any more of that $81 million in over-regional social services, so it's gonna be the whole $2 billion. But the whole thing is that the regions have calculated the financing of social services as a result of wage increases that have not been included in the budget and as a result of the failure of individual projects at 2 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u37	Now I'm going to read two apologies. Then I have four factual points. So, Mr Jiří Bláha apologizes from 19:00 to the end of today's session of the Chamber of Deputies for working reasons, and Mrs Jana Levová apologises from 19.15 to the end of the day for health reasons. So now we're going to take factual notes. I am the first to call on Mr Marian Jurečka. Mr Bartošek, Mrs Mračková and Mrs Aulická will then be prepared. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u38	Thank you. Mrs Gajdůšková, through Mr President. Please, let me do one thing. We really don't have an ambition here to attack you politically and medialy. But we have been here for the last six months, please, nicely, and this can be traced to the Steno records, already in December, and other Members from other political parties have pointed out that the financing of social services is not set adequately in the budget. During the previous government coalition, when we were also members, this also happened to us. But the memorials who are here, including the country-level memorials, know that we solved this by the end of April at the latest, when the government decided to raise the funds and send them to the regions. During the holidays, the regions have made extraordinary councils, some, and the funds have arrived in time to those providers without risking funding the entire calendar year. That's the big difference between the last three-wheelers and the Minister for the ČSSD, Mrs. Marksová, who dealt with these things on time. Unfortunately, the fact that things are going down here is a situation that you have committed as a coalition partner. Don't be mad at me, but it's true. You could've solved it in April, you could've solved it in December, you didn't figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u39	Another comment by Mr Jan Bartošek and Mrs Jana Mračková will be prepared. Please, two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u40	Thank you for your help, Mr Vice-President, my colleague Gajdůšková. Well, to be honest, it was folklore when we tabled an amendment to 800 million which would be missing in social services this year, and which the coalition rejected. Those weren't political points, that was pointing out that the problem was going to happen, it would, and we can deal with it in time. You voted for the budget, didn't you? So you probably approved the budget where the money was missing. Next thing. That we have a problem on the verge of financing social services. It was a social democracy that rang the bells and screamed houstone, we have a problem, we're two billion short? It wasn't social democracy, it was the people who came and said: we have a problem here, the money will be missing. Once again, it was the people's people who called an emergency meeting. Was it social democracy? It wasn't. These are the concrete acts that we have done and through which we solve problems on the margins in the context of the financing of social services. Believe me, I am not comfortable expressing this way about social democracy, which I see as a standard political party. But you have to tell yourself that we're dealing with these social services issues in a matter of fact. And so don't be angry, if you don't do these specific things, I'll take it as your failure towards the most necessary. Don't be mad at me, but that's how I really feel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u41	Now, with Mrs Mračková's point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Aulická. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u42	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up. Because really, like I said here, we've been getting a lot of tables from the Social Commission lately. I told you. First we were at 3.5 billion, then we were at 3 billion. Then I asked the Governor of Stráskoa, who sent out a formula to all the regions, from which it came to 1.9 billion. But at the same time, I would like to say that we have an expert here, Mr Horecký, President of the Association of Social Services Providers and, at the same time, the President of the Union of Employment Unions, with whom I regularly meet. And I met him at the beginning of June, where he sent me an email after the meeting on June 4th, from which I would like to quote. The funding requirement of 2 billion consists of three items. Firstly, the increase in special allowances from the Government's decision on 17 December - the impact of 638 million. That's what the county got. An increase of 7 per cent, not 5 per cent - impact of 360 million. That's what the county got. And thirdly, the blackout, or the interruption of individual projects - the impact of 0.8 to 0.9 billion. That's what the Secretary of State got the European money for. That is why we have also adopted the resolution at the Regional Association that we are asking the Commission to evaluate this by the next meeting of the Council. So this is a person who has also sent me adequate documentation in terms of confirming how much social services are missing in terms of financing. At the same time, I would like to say that we have succeeded and won 200 million for cities and municipalities for social work and 166 million for vulnerable children, the so-called OSPOD. This means that the regions fought not only for the regions, but also for cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u43	Thank you. I'll read one apology. Mr Martin Kupka apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 19.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. I will now ask Mrs Aulická to make a point of fact and prepare for Mrs GajdůGajdůšková to take action. So your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I couldn't stand it. I feel like we have elections at the door, even if we don't know what we're going to be dealing with. [[Nesroz.]] But, of course, the discussion really suggests that. I wouldn't want to deal with just Zlinsky County. I think that we should address the issue of financing social services in general. This means that we are talking about one billion that is still missing. I'm sorry to be the president of the County Association because I don't know what chair she's sitting on right now. Because I have here a resolution from the Association of Regions or the Association of Regions, and I have here a public statement of all 14 Deputys, including Prague. And I must say that these statements, too, are not optimal. And this, as you have spoken through the President, Madam President, that everything is fine. You know, the 900 million, the blackout, fell into the base network, and that's why we need that one billion funding. Because they can't touch these regions right now, and you should know that for individual projects, because they're mostly allocated, or other projects are going on. That means if we don't understand it, we shouldn't get involved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u45	Now I have two factual points. So, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Before the Member arrives, Mrs Tereza Hyťová apologises until the end of the day - Hyťhová, sorry - Tereza Hyťhová apologizes to the end for work reasons from 19.45. I've noticed a strict look in my direction, so I'm so sorry. So, Madame, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u46	Thank you for the floor. Just really fast. Of course, I must turn to what has been said again to my address and to the address of social democracy. One. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, i.e. social democracy, demanded from the budget of 17 billion for social services, which is exactly the difference of the 2 billion we are looking for at the moment. Of course, I voted in favour of the budget because it was important for the country to start working. And don't be mad at me, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, along with the Ministry of Finance, has been really looking for and preparing a system to fund social services. By the way, our amendment, as far as I know, has raised some money on the budget. I do not consider things worked out by the fact that things are going round and round in the Chamber of Deputies. I consider things done that have a very specific outcome, and these things happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u47	With a point of fact, so far the last application - Mrs Jana Mračková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u48	I would like to take the liberty of calling on Mrs Aulická through you, Mr President. I am very sorry that Mrs Aulická feels this way. I would like to say that I am one of the captains, one of the members of the Council of the Association of Regions, and the resolution I have read here has been approved by the majority of the generals and, above all, the fact that nothing is closed on our part at the moment and we want, above all, from the point of view of the individual projects, to have a proper evaluation. And so, as the Minister of Finance has said here, if we can draw European money, let us try together to do so, and then let us draw national resources. At the same time, since I don't have the practice as the chieftain, I would like to assure you that this individual project ends on 31 August. The Deputy Minister for Social Affairs has come to me and he will need another CZK 40 million by the end of the year until we start this project. My question was why we haven't continued this project since September 1st. And you know what the head of the social affairs department said? Why would we do that when we already have the funds approved in the budget? So I told the Head of Social Affairs to move to her union and work on a project. As you have heard, today we have surrendered the project and we will have the funds from the European funds again from 1 September. And I think it's the right way that we should all try to go and then go back to it, evaluate it, and then deal with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to put the national resources on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u49	Thank you. We will now return to a normal debate, so with the priority right of the rapporteur, Mr Výborný, Minister Maláčová will prepare and Mrs Richterová will follow. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm glad I got to be patient. I didn't make any factual comments, but I was taking notes, and I'd like to respond here to some of the things that have been said here because it needs to be refuted. Of course, the art of magic with the numbers of Secretary Schillerová has been commented on several times, so of course everything is growing, the average wage is growing, so of course you have to look at the figures in real life. This applies, of course, to the increase in the budget for social services. If we look at the next thing, and I have to say that again, and I have it in black and white, there was repeatedly an attack on Zlinsky County by Minister Maláčová. One thing didn't come up. You, Madam Secretary, must also learn about the structure of provision and social services providers in the Zlín Region, and then you will understand why they are really 4 percent. I'm the one who never questioned. This number is correct, but it is due to the historical situation of the Zlín Region, where there were a number of large residential facilities and these facilities have become a contribution organization of the region and logically the region takes care of these contribution organizations. And I can quote you exactly. He was a commander of the Zlín Region, his name was Mr. Mišák. He was the Governor for Social Democracy and for him the social services contribution was 10 million, later 20 million in 2016, and when, as you said, the governance, and we really do not rule there, we manage the region because we work there for the citizens of the Zlín Region, so in 2017 it was 21.4 million, in 2018 it was 32.8 million and in 2019 it is 61.33 million crowns for social services. So this is how the contribution grows in the Zlín Region. 36 million is on the priority axis and 25 is on the pilot relief service programme. That's the amount that's probably missing from the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. That's why you say it's different. So it's only to the Zlín Region, because it's impossible to spread the truth here and defamate other people's work. Next thing. A letter has been mentioned here several times by colleague Bauer, or the call, the public statements of the councilmen responsible for social matters. I feel like we all know what we're talking about, and I've got room for it, unlike in fact. It's not long, I'll read it to you so you all know how those responsible for redistributing funds to municipalities and providers feel. The introduction speaks of the fact that on 7 June something was presented by Minister Schillerová and Maláčová, and continues: The proposed solution does not cover the entire blackout of CZK 2 billion, on which the regions agreed - I underline the regions - and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Assigned funds from the operational programme Employment of CZK 1.5 billion will only be used for social prevention services until June 2022. - In my opening entry, I described it to you if you do not know what particular services are and what is logically not to be financed. But I suppose the officials of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs know that well. It is obvious that it is unrealistic for them to cover half of the financial outage for 2019, or one billion crowns. In drawing on these European funds, this is a longer-term process, which must be passed through approval at both regional and MPSV level. From European sources, only certain types and forms of social services can be funded in the implementation of an individual project, but not provided social services, such as elderly homes, homes with a special regime, homes for disabled people, and so on, where the situation with a lack of funds is critical. The proposed method of financing further deepens - and this is crucial - the instability of the sustainability of social services and disproportionately, and burdens both service providers and individual regions in the administrative emergency period. - Then it goes on here. We really don't want to fight you, anybody else, every time we discuss this point. We just want to ensure what the providers really do - I remind you, and you know that they are thousands of employees - as well as the clients that really deserve. And when you mentioned here that actually that one billion is enough to finance salaries, I'm saying completely responsible, that's not true. And Madam Secretary, you know that very well. It's not true. The next billion is simply not necessarily needed to finance the salaries of social services workers. So there's a specific example. Home for seniors in Sloupnice, the director here says - quote: In this proposal we will miss approximately 3.7 million crowns, which are the salaries of our employees in two months, and must not freeze to that in winter. If it were to address the situation as a homemaker, which is a municipality in this case, it would mean paying about 25 to 30 per cent of the budget tax determination for it. Simple, black and white. If you want to push the founders of the municipality and the region into these decisions, you are on the right track, but I really do not find it responsible. And if you are calling here, one and the other Madam Secretary, and through you, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, for some cooperation, we repeatedly say that they can do it in those regions. On a number of regions, they know how multiannual and multi-source funding works. It is perhaps no problem to inspire and work at central level, at the level of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And I'm willing to join you here, because that's what's been said here. I'll join my colleague Jurečka here, and we'll split you, Madam Secretary, one and the other, and let's really try it out. Let's see what the situation is really like, not in the offices of one and the other ministry, but in those people, in those clients' residential facilities, because maybe they'll discuss the situation faster, and we'll find the solution sooner than we think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u51	Thank you, too. I will now introduce you to the apology of Vice-President Okamura, who apologizes from 19.45 to the end of the day for working reasons. I now have two priority rights here. First Minister Maláčová, then Mrs Richterová. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna, I'm gonna respond to some notes. I made sure that I was in the Secretariat that those letters actually went with the promised documents and went to President Vondráček last week and to President Maxová. And my colleagues, even though it's late hours, have rightly pointed out that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is holding a round table the day after tomorrow to the social services amendment and, together with the invitation, the material, the substantive intention, even though we got it out of the way, so all the members of the social committee received it. [[Nesroz.]] This means that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs actually has more than been fulfilled in advance and has sent all the required materials. [[19.50 hours]] As far as the second point is concerned. You see, Mr President Excellent through Mr President, the Zlin region is no different from other regions by its structure. Greater problems than the Zlín Region have the Karlovy Vary Region, Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region, they are called structurally disadvantaged and affected regions. And yet these regions give many times more to social services for the needy than the Zlín Region. And I wonder how long, if social services are to be a KDU-ČSL display closet, KDU-ČSL in the Zlín Region will be making excuses for this condition. You know, the whole debate actually started with you guys this weekend, and yesterday, you and the Secretary of Finance blamed us for fraud. I told you you should apologize, because a decent man, when he shoots, he apologizes. I think there is no point in repeating this for the tenth time, Mr President, through Mr President, and the President of the Association of Regions has confirmed this, the President of the Association of Social Services Providers has confirmed this, how it was quantified, how it was created, and how we have fully satisfied the calculation. Billions of salary losses, 900 million outages of individual projects from European funds and 81 million from the IMF's budget for over-regional social services, salary losses and a special contribution. And I think that should put an end to the debate. I'm saying I would, if I shot like this, I'd apologize. Okay, I don't insist on that apology. And one more thing. I am in a social service facility - because I go every time there is no House, every week to the regions. The exception is when the Chamber of Deputies is, I can't afford it in time, because Monday is the government, and I'm here for the rest of the week. So I'm at the social services facility at least three times a month. So please, let's leave this cheap politics behind and stop calling ourselves that way. I know the problems. Of course I am not a man of practice, it was few ministers, it was my predecessor former Minister Krčál, but believe me that I will consult him very intensively on this issue. And I can repeat my challenge, which I said in the introductory words: Let's work together on this system amendment on social services, because it is really necessary. But let's stop politicizing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u53	Thank you. There are two factual points. First of all, Mr Výborný, then Mrs Aulická. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u54	Thank you. So, Madam Secretary, there is certainly no dispute as to the amendment to the law, we are drawing attention to this over the long term, we are ready, we have our representatives on the Committee on Social Policy. We also got an invitation to Thursday's meeting, we know about it, we're ready, we're working together. But you have a great art of talking about a car and we have a goat. That's all. I wasn't talking about structurally affected regions. I don't know if you listened to me, just like you obviously didn't listen to me at the beginning of the entrance, because then you reacted completely differently. So now it's the same thing. I didn't really talk about anything like that here. And when I said something about being cheated here, I really insist! Because if you look at me -- ten minutes after the end of Friday's meeting, text messages came from regional representatives, from providers' representatives, from charities that responded to how and what you presented here and that it really is completely inadequate, virtually that it is sufficient only from 50 percent, and that is the one billion. So it was a whole simple reaction. Let me make two more comments. As far as Mr. Horecký is concerned, look at the Sunday show 168 hours, there's his statement. I think he made that very clear. And the programme, which concerns the financing of social services, is absolutely pregnant describing the situation that we are drawing attention to and that we want to address. Yes, we are opposition, and we just don't fix the register. So we have no leverage over you but to deal with this here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies or possibly on the floor of the Senate. That's all. And only when it sounded like the neighborhoods were in harmony and everything. Today, the Pardubice Regional Council has held a resolution and a few hours ago they adopted a resolution, so he's on you, Mr. Governor. The Netolic for Social Democracy will also turn with the Social Affairs Councilman, because these things are simply not completed, they are not funded and are commissioned by the D.A. to negotiate with you, so that the funds on the edge can actually arrive at the amount that we are talking about. If you look at the media, Mr Horecký speaks of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u55	Thank you. More factual remarks. Now, Mrs Aulická, then Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be quick. I don't know what she was talking about, what kind of help to structurally affected regions, because when we talk about funding social services, it's 97 million, and we need 250 million, as appropriate. That means the collapse for the most affected region is obvious. Next thing. Mr Horecký said that he was very unhappy with the way he actually broke in, or how he was said to agree with the agreement that was made or announced on 7 July, that it would be financed by one and a half billion of European funds, because he was the first one to say that it was wrong, and I think that it was quite aptly said. And I am very sorry that the facts are constantly twisting around here, and even worse, it is from the position of Minister Maláčová. We have a point for the Social Policy Committee next week to finance, and believe me, I think they will definitely be present from the Social Commission of the Association of Regions, where they will certainly say their essential positions on this situation. I am very sorry that the President of the Association of Regions cannot be taken for what the Commission and all 14 regions and representatives have declared for this social area. And I think that Mr Horecký will also be present for the provider of this debate. We will be very happy to see the Secretary herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u57	Thank you for keeping time. So now, Mr Juchelka, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll just fill it in. Indeed, we have two points on the Social Policy Committee next week, and that is the financing of social services and also the inspection of social services. But I would like to return here to Mr Výborný through you, Mr President, because if each region is different, then I remember the Committee on Social Policy, which was in May and where Mrs Vildumetzová and Mrs Stránská were, that we were given completely de facto different figures, from the MPSV and others from the Association of Regions to quantify social services. That's why I keep calling just like the Minister of Finance, so that we simply have a number that we can bounce off and start discussing, even as part of the amendment to the Social Services Act, which starts the first round table the day after tomorrow, how to finance these social services in a conceptual way, so that it is not annual squabbling, as we are used to here at the moment. So I am cordially inviting you all to the Social Policy Committee next Thursday, and you have your deputy Mrs Golasowská and Mr Kaňkovský. Be sure to come alone, join the debate, and let's normally simply have a conceptual conversation about it, so that we don't have to chat like this every year. And I agree with what Minister Schillerová says, let us analyse the expenditure on social services in individual regions. If the individual regions are really different, as you say, everyone has different services, different structures, etc., and let's start talking about some concept so that we can finally put the novel on social services together and out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u59	Thank you. That's four more factual points at the moment. First Mr Kaňkovský, then Mr Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u60	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I will be really material now. I must say that it has been said here several times today that we should work together from the opposition. I'm the only one who can support it. And I have to say that we repeatedly try to go to both ministers with material problems, and I must say that I appreciate the fact that in a number of cases we actually sit at the table and act in a matter of fact. It was both with Secretary of Finance Schillerová and Minister Maláčová. I appreciate this, and thank you for that. [[20.00 hours]] However, the issue of the Social Services Act, the big, very expected amendment, is at the beginning at the moment. And if Secretary Maláčová calls a round table with ambition for all members of the Social Committee of this House, and the round table is called for Thursday at 10 o'clock when the Chamber of Deputies is to act, that is unfortunate. It's unfortunate, and it's not being summoned to the House of Deputies, but as far as I know, to the Ministry's building. So I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, if you are organising such an important meeting, and I really consider it very important, so I ask you very much to align the dates with the Members' options. It's not just from you for the first time, but from time to time, the Ministry of Health does. If you call it on Monday when we're supposed to be in the region, which is the matter of the Ministry of Health, or if you call it at the time of the House's meeting, unfortunately, the participation of the Members will not be high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u61	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Bartošek. Mr. Jurečka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. When I think of it as a government bench, it's just one billion. You know, I can be wrong, and sometimes it happens to me, and it's normal, and if we're here discussing and wondering who's wrong, okay, probably someone made a mistake. But those voices from the field, from practice, they sound so often and there are so many that I believe that the error is on the side of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. And there's going to be an increase in parenting, which is about 8 billion, we have a fare here, which is about 6 billion. Our spending is increasing, and it's billions, and all we ever say is yes, we approve, our spending will grow. And this is going to be one billion. And I don't completely understand it, and most importantly, I don't understand it from the position of social democracy. Because you are consciously going against social services, against your program. And if it is said that there were 17 billion in the budget and that you have reduced by 2 billion, it automatically implies that you are a very weak coalition partner because you are unable to negotiate - you are right, colleagues, yes, the Social Democrats are not present here, except for Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, who is proud of the guard, so I speak to the empty benches of social democracy. But you have to say, in that case, you're a weak coalition partner. You don't know how to negotiate enough money for your resorts and the YES movement with you steaks. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u63	Thank you for your time and now Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u64	I told the media today that this is an awkward debate, and we're continuing it for the third week. The House is meeting for the third week, and the third week we're dealing with a lack of finance. I didn't share the enthusiasm of some opposition colleagues the other day, as it was resolved. I was at an exaggeration today saying that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš should not allow Secretary Schillerová and the Maláčová to leave together until they find the billion. Then let them go on vacation together. I remember the smiles, the pats, how we figured it out. We didn't really solve it. My previous speaker correctly mentioned when we look at the total cost of the state budget, so the fact that three weeks are failing to find the government one billion now is really undignified. It is perhaps because the government expects that social services clients are not a pressure group, they are not the ones who come to protest before the Office of the Government, they are not the ones who will organize petitions and create pressure. And I really don't understand. And since I've already done the analyses, no offense, let's not forget that social services are also financed by municipalities. So if we want to have a picture of how they work in the territory of the Moravian-Silesian Social Services Region, it's not just the regional budget, but we have Ostrava, we have five other statutory cities where they go small. And make that conditional? [[Nesroz.]] It would be right for us to actually figure out how much money goes there, how much development is going in these individual cities, and it's across the political spectrum. I'm just speculating, I imagine, if most of the chieftains were political affiliations other than governments, how the captains would do things. It's covering up tonight. The president of the Association of Regionals will perform here, not on the outside, but on her political movement. It's legitimate, I'm not questioning it, but... [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u65	Thank you, too. And now, therefore, Mrs Richterová, with priority rights, after a block of factual remarks. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u66	I don't know how to say this anymore, so it's understood. No one here cooks long-cooked milk, as it was said here. Here's just an acute, unresolved problem where we heard some sort of solution proposal a week ago, we said thank you, and then, in turn, we got information from nonprofit organizations that it isn't. There's a whole different saying about this situation for me. That's a saying -- you're pulling us around. Please, the point is that the workers, the providers, are still dealing with the same stress as last month. One billion found, the other billion largely unavailable. It's been very, very clear here. I'm gonna say it again about the numbers. Imagine now that you will learn that you have to quickly prepare a project, which is only for those field outpatients, especially preventive services, or only one segment of what you need to pay, and that you have it, although you wanted to prepare it, planned to prepare for January, lightning to start to draw from October, but even if you make it, the money should still be for three years. I know, the secretary here said it could be drawn fast, but it's just as realistic that it's actually based on drawing tens of millions a month. Like the average, if you do the math, the 1.5 billion of that European money for two and a half years, it just goes to about 50 million a month. Even if, by some miracle, this can be increased a little bit within the services we have and need, please bear in mind that within those limits, the fact that it is development services, not the stable financing of something we need, it is simply a sort of operational, but something where innovation, methodological improvement and development are involved, it is significantly limited. And if we realize all of this, then all we have to do is ask - is the president of the Regional Association here at all representing these regions? I think it was more than clear from what was said here, what real voices come from the regions and from the Association of Social Services Providers and from other, many other organizations, that there is really a great doubt about it, whether the representation of the regions still takes their interests into account. Nor does it sound as if the biggest service providers, namely nonprofit organizations, are to cope with a wage loss. There's always talk of pay. I am glad to be able to speak here as an MP elected for Prague, for the region where we finance that 153 percent. I am glad that we consider it so important in Prague, this area of care needed, but of course we cannot do without help from the headquarters. As has been said here by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, the Governor and Chairman of the Council of the Regional Association, nothing is closed. I am interested - on the one hand it is said, everything is solved, on the other hand, nothing is closed. So what is it really like? [[20.10 hours]] You probably know it's just not okay, even you responsible in a government coalition. The fact that you repeat over and over again that you want some quantification, some analysis, and that you want our opposition synergies to do this - please, of course, we are working together on what we can, but this is really a matter for the ministries. Absolutely doesn't make any sense why we're here to challenge us. And one last thing. I'm really asking you not to have any more false solutions. Those providers, those carers, they don't deserve to feel like you're just pulling them around. That's really not fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u67	Thank you, too. And now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u68	I didn't make it before, so I'd prefer priority rights so that after two minutes, the Vice-President doesn't have to call me to order. So let's try to model that what the secretary brought is okay. Let's try to believe them for a second. So now they're going to quickly submit projects for three years, with the drawdown being in three months - two thirds of that amount. Yeah? Because we need that billion this year, the total volume is 1.5 billion, it's going to be three months. This is how you covered the billion by the end of 2019 with the fact that we have even more of European projects. We have 1.5 billion. But we don't have 1.5 billion for October, November, December. Madam Secretary, don't yell at me. Those are your words, those are your calculations. [[Minister Maláčová.]] So please don't yell at me. Before, you wanted the President to treat you polite, for example, and you asked him to apologize. And you guys are really making fools of these people, and you're still yelling at me. Which is not entirely normal from a Social Democrat, let's face it. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] So I'm trying to believe you, so I'm modeling. You said that European projects will be 1.5 billion, that it is actually over the billion, but we need that billion this year, so that billion must be spent by the end of this year. Otherwise, the other billion just won't be there. So they're supposed to prepare projects, approve projects, pay out projects in three months, total about 67 percent of those projects. I can see the evaluators, I can see the follow-up checks - that's a great project for three years, because for example, let it count well, so it's going to be 360 million crowns, a project for example. our region, which would deserve such money, so the Moravian-Silesian Region will give CZK 360 million for 36 months, which is CZK 10 million a year, but will draw 50 in October 2019, 50 or 60 in November and 70 in December. And for the next 29 months, he will remain roughly 30 percent, which is some CZK 108 million. Do you really think this project will succeed in that specialized care, innovative? Is it so innovative that I run out of two-thirds in three months and one-third in 2.5 years? Well, that's really innovative. It must be said that it's... maybe we'll make it worse, it's kind of a Turkish economy. You can't be serious. A question that's logical. That means if the projects succeed and are funded from October and the billion come, will the billion really come? Will anyone continue to pay for that seventh or tenth? I mean, the wages - and I'm talking about wages, not wages - just have to be paid. What happened? The government raised your salaries, announced it at the press conference - we raised your salaries, voted for us, we raised your salaries, we value you - but they forgot to say: But we didn't find the money there. Pay whatever you want, that's the county. - And if there's nothing else, there's a Čunek. [[There's a laugh on the right.]] If there's no argument anymore. I don't know how social services are financed in the Zlín Region. And even if that were true, what about the other regions? Even if it's true. I'm not saying it's true. What kind of argument is that? Your party colleague, your predecessor as Vice-President of Social Democracy, Madam Secretary, just now accepted at his council, where, by the way, we were with you in the coalition, imagine it, without ano, I don't know if that social democracy could be anywhere in the coalition without YES, but in the Pardubice Region we certainly are, we are with the people and with social democracy - and the region is not satisfied. And here we hear from the Chairman of the Council of the Association of the Regions - what did she say? - nothing's closed. In other words, when I translate it, it also means nothing is solved. Because if it's solved, it's closed, and we can focus on the round tables. And that's where we can debate the system solution. But if it's not closed, it's not settled, and we've had this awkward debate for the third time. Indeed, I repeatedly ask that ministers not convene meetings for the time when the House is acting. Ten o'clock. I'm in, so let's start at 12 on Thursday. I'm all for it! Let's make a deal. It's a round table. Even poor Members, they are doing so well, so they must be staggering to the Ministry, because, imagine that officials would have to come to the House at the time of the House meeting. Well, unimaginable to those officials. And then the chairman here will be calling those Members: come to the vote. We say, well, we can't, I'm taking a break, I've got the MPs on the round table at the secretary's, because her officials can't come here. - If you don't have room, I'll lend you next to a hundred, there are microphones, that's the ODS club meeting room during the House, I didn't think there'd be a round table, he's not very round, he's quite rectangular, but why not. Seriously. Jesus Christ, I hear you. Who's tired of going home? I don't like the third time we've worked this out either. The House resolution was clear and it just isn't. Today, we will probably be adopting other resolutions again, which he will say: fulfil what you should have done once before. Does that seem normal to you? One billion. Remember the success of the coalition meeting, I think it was a coalition council or whatever it's called, when Prime Minister Babiš and Secretary Schillerová found 8.3 billion. We did. To parental allowance. That's how they found 8.3 and they can't find one. And they've been looking for three weeks. Well, I think it's bad will. If I find 8.3, why don't I find one? No one can explain that to me. Well, he can. Then I'll ask the secretary. How did you look when you didn't find anything? Look, if you don't know the way, look at the amendments that we and the other opposition parties have made to discuss the state budget. Among other things, we suggested raising money for social services. How did this responsible coalition vote, which so appreciates workers in social services? Against! No need. It's kind of populism. We're not gonna get our budget blown. - With the support of the communists, two present members of social democracy. We have to appreciate it. Colleagues' attendance increased by 100 percent, from one to two. Then they say they're socially democratic. I have doubts after today about both of those words. I have to say my doubts, and I'm sorry. I expected, and in vain, the simple solution, that after the first debate, the Prime Minister would come forward and say, "Dear opposition, I just solved it." I found those two billion, eight last week, two this week, look how handy I am, we have - in two weeks I found 10.3 billion, it's settled. And then we could do a really serious thing. I don't want to make it ironic or question it. That means a system solution. But if anyone claims that a round table and a system solution will solve the situation in 2019, they are knowingly lying. Well, I don't think anyone in those government desks behind me would really think that, but that's the way they look. Is there a billion missing? Don't worry, we have a round table in the House on Thursday. Not in the House, actually, but near the House. I think it's just a wrong approach. I don't understand. I really don't. Because if it was 10 billion or 20, for budgetary reasons, I would understand that it can't be solved day by day. But one billion? If you want, I'll offer you, let us in. To the day! Let us in for a day, and it's settled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u69	Thank you. Now, I've been notified by the Minister with priority rights, if that's still true. Deal, please. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Sorry about that, my God, it didn't pay you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think you're a god. [[With a smile.]] However, it was a reaction to the fact that this is what happens when Members come to the negotiations in his own way. They're gonna miss the first part, and then they're gonna start saying their thing, because, I'm sorry, that was the essential part of my opening word, where I explained how individual projects work. I can do it again, I am happy to do it, but very briefly, and as the Minister of Finance rightly says behind me, perhaps it will be more beneficial for you, I apologise, through the President, to read the tape. Basically, the system is set up so that each region has its so-called partial allocation for this programming period, overall it is 8.08 billion for the whole Czech Republic. Crowns. In addition to this partial allocation, I have managed to reallocate 1.5 billion. CZK, which it has for this year, but, of course, because it is also money that we found in other parts of the Employment Operational Programme, especially in the priority axis for equal opportunities and then also for employment as such, because we have record employment in Europe and we do not think that the funds for this area would be better used than for social services, so we have reallocated 1.5 billion, which can be used in the next three years. It's not that you have half a billion each year, but they can split it up like that. There are four other conditions, the point is that the application must be submitted either for an extension or for a new project by mid-December of this year. The project could be up to 48 months. Another condition is that projects have to be completed at the end of October 2022. These are the only barriers to projects. And what is crucial is that, if really the regions, and now we are getting to the point, they spent money on so-called individual projects, for whose outage they demanded funding, so, in individual projects, whether prolonged or new, they can receive these expenses even if the project is not approved, they can be paid back from 23 January this year. So these are the principles. It is even more complex and it is described in very detail in the tapestry, or the one who wants to study it really in detail, so in the conditions of call 5 and 6, you know that we have one challenge for Prague, the other challenge for the rest of the Republic, so the entire drawdown of European funds is set. There it is written on about 80 pages and very detailed explanation, or then in the press release of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs from last week. So that's how the entire pumping system works in individual projects. If money for individual projects was pumped and the regions will be active this year, and I have already said that eight, including the capital city of Prague, of the fourteen, either submitted a new project plan or even approved it over the last few weeks, or informed us that by the end of the week they would extend it or have approved it, we will reimburse them. That's the logic. As far as round tables are concerned, I did not say 'you have a problem, come to the round table', but I followed up on the discussion with Mr Bauer through Mr President, who made sure that we actually sent the documents. And I said yes, I sent it to President Vondráček, I'm not sure I sent it to President Maxová, I checked it out, Mrs Maxová got it, too, and thirdly, there's a round table the day after tomorrow, and you got it at the round table. Otherwise, as regards, for example, Mr Kaňkovský's question through Mr President, there will be five round tables overall. And the so-called Stakeholder of the debate on the amendment to social services is not only Members and Senators, they are not only legislators, but they are also providers, they are regions, they are municipalities, they are nonprofits, they are union representatives, and we are trying to get all these groups into one place. Otherwise, for your information, the Social Committee has requested a special round table in the Chamber of Deputies, and we have also promised that the deadline is now on the side of President Maxová. So it's to the round table. As regards Mrs Richterová's comments through Mr President. I just mentioned that 1 billion. it's on salaries, but I meant, of course, that it's on wages. It was a shortcut, so I'm sorry about her, 1 billion. it's also on salaries, and on wages, and it's converted into jobs, as it's done every year, it's a system that works like this every year, every year when it's being funded, so it's quite accurate, every year providers are satisfied with logic and arithmetic, so I don't understand why it shouldn't work this year. And the last point I would like to respond to is the one that concerns the Zlin Region. The logic was built by having a problem here, we solved it with the Minister of Finance, we faced it, we met the demands exactly as the Association of Regions asked. There's a discussion about the Association of Social Services Providers. Yes, I saw Mr. Horecký statement on the camera on Sunday, but I also have an e-mail at my disposal saying otherwise. I guess we'll just have to get this straight. And all the captains have that e-mail at their disposal. I can't publish it because there's a letter secret and it wasn't meant for me, but the question is, why is President Horeckýý saying something on camera and saying something in his e-mail? That's another thing to do. And I'm really intrigued. However, if there is the composition of the funding demanded by the Association of Regions, the Association of Social Services Providers, and we have complied with it, I literally consider the matter to be settled. But I am still willing to discuss the whole issue. And why did I respond to the question? Because I was very surprised to be charged with fraud with the Minister of Finance. I think, and I have already mentioned that President Výborný has crossed the line through Mr President. I said a decent man would apologize. That's what I'd do. That can happen, in the heat of political struggle, it can just happen that you get a little bit outgunned, I think the expression is adequate. But if someone says and cheats on the needy and claims that social services are the most important, and then the region in which I have the governor gives the least, not only that the least, gives a fifth of what is the average of other regions, it is a very strange situation. And I just don't think it's an adequate situation. But I won't go back to that. I just wanted to put all this information in context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u71	Thank you. Now there will be some factual remarks. Before I invite the first speaker, Mr. Jiří Bláha, who apologizes to us between 19 and 22 pm for work reasons, is here with his apology. So now, please, Mr Výborný, with a point of fact. He's downloading. In that case, Mrs Langšádlová, with a factual point. That is the only factual point at the moment. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u72	Thank you for the floor. We were one million crowns short. [[1 billion]] The Minister came and said that we would solve the billion crowns with individual projects. Do I understand that correctly? I understand that these resources are here, but at the same time, it is the fact that individual projects cannot finance certain types of services. So, Minister, please, it's 8:30 p.m., we're sitting here a few times, just tell us what the types of services that cannot be financed from individual projects will be financed from. I don't think that question is more complicated than that, that if you answer that question, because that's what we've been talking about all along. I don't want to go to any regions or the past, but we need to know how the services that cannot be covered by individual projects will be funded. And I think that's the essence of what we're missing. Please tell us. Tell us that part of that one billion is, I don't know, 300 million that can be financed from individual projects depending on the type of service, and then part of the 700 million for residential services and others that cannot be financed from individual projects, and please tell us how they will be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u73	Thank you for keeping time. I now have two priority rights - first President Stanjura, then Minister Maláčová. We'd prefer the secretary. Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. And please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u74	I'd be happy to answer that. I also realize it's 8:30. We were also supposed to be at the Coalition Council at 7:00 a.m. from 7:00 p.m. And we're very sorry that we're gonna make the Coalition Council unbalanced today. But I'd be happy to answer that. The calculation of the requirements for the financing of social services, as presented by the Association of Regions on 2 May by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Social Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, was 1.9 billion. One billion for wages and salaries that were created by a blackout - out - an increase of 7 percent instead of 5, it was not allocated in the state budget...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u75	I'm gonna ask for more peace in the room. I know it's late, but my dear colleagues, please remain calm for the rest of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u76	And the second reason for that one billion wage increases was an increase in the interval called. a special premium. So it was part A-- one billion. We approved it yesterday at the government and it is paid or paid for, it will be financed from half by the Ministry of Finance and half by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The second part, part B of the request, was 900 million - failure of individual projects. The failure of individual projects, which are projects funded by social service providers through regions from the European Social Fund. The blackout was briefly created by the fact that most regions had so-called individual projects planned by 2019 and then others from 2020. How did this take place historically? It's very complicated. Officials tell me that individual projects are always limited and there must be an innovative component. So I reallocated the billion and a half we collected after the operational program in different places and I wasn't convinced it could be used effectively for the benefit of social services. It's a rather lengthy process. You can't just do that to a man or a minister. It was a six-month negotiation with the European Commission. But the good news is that, at the end of the European Commission, it approved this 1.5 billion relocation, and that is possible. And if - because we talked about that billion - the government decided on it yesterday from the state budget - there will be a blackout on individual projects and they can also be drawn from funds for individual projects from 23 January, I simply do not understand what the problem is. If I don't have funding for individual projects and then I get them available and can draw them back from the date of the blackout, and I don't have to have an approved or extended project, then it's just and really - really - that's the assumption, that's the condition, so it's financed from the individual projects. The third component, which is no longer mentioned, is the 81 million for so-called trans-regional social services. These are social services provided directly by the Ministry, because they are, in simple terms, very expensive, very complex and do not exist in every region. As I have already mentioned, they are mainly social services for autistic spectrum disorders or for people with multiple sclerosis. And that 81 million came into existence just like that billion. It's a 7 per cent increase instead of 5 and then a special bonus. So that's the formula. I'd be happy to repeat once again if there's any demand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u77	Thank you. Mr Vondrák is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u78	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I don't consider myself an expert in the social field, I have my associate, or vice-president in the field of social services. But I'm taking the liberty of making an expert estimate here. And maybe there's a contradiction between what we hear from the secretary and others where the difference is actually missing from one billion. And I think that's what Mr. Horeckýý's e-mail confirms me that he was only talking about salary. And I think that's the billion we get on those salaries, so we're going to solve the issue of all the public organizations that basically have to pay those salaries. But what we're missing is a billion on wages, which means the individual nonprofit organizations, whether it's charity or the others. But please, this is where the problem arose, and Mr. Horeckýý's e-mail - look at him, I've been looking at him in the hallway, there's really only talk of salary. That means 1.9 billion, and that 600 million goes to pay. That's what it said in the e-mail. And Madam Secretary, I beg you, don't put your hands in your hands. [[Baby]] You don't do that. That's not appropriate. I think we all have the right to make our views known here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u79	Thank you, too. Now, then, Prime Minister Stanjura's priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u80	I'm glad I gave the secretary some space. First of all, when I want training, I'll choose it. It's about how you had an educational window about individual projects. Leave it to my free will, to whom I will apply for training and whether I will be willing to pay in the event of such training. I think there's no problem paying for it in case of good quality. I am glad that the Minister here is talking about individual projects, because I remember one of our first debates, when she forgot when comparing expenditures, for example, our government 2010-2013, so she forgot to mention the volume of individual projects. I was just pointing out that we actually have to add up the sums to see how much public resources are going into that area. And now we're not talking about county and municipal, but we're talking about European and national. Then it makes sense to compare numbers in individual years, not to rip out one of those two indicators. Mr. Governor of my county spoke a moment ago, and I would say very reasonably. And his social policy deputy is also from KDU-ČSL, so as not to say only the Čunek and he gives little. So there's no point in saying it individually. And the secretary used it as an argument, and it just doesn't matter. In addition to The Zlin region is also in the coalition your coalition partner, if I'm not mistaken, even with us. There's such a broad coalition. I think that's just the way it is. So there's no point in bringing up individual stories of the county and talking about the political composition of the regional council. It's very varied. We're in a coalition somewhere. In another region, the same political parties are in sharp opposition. That doesn't solve the problem at all, and it doesn't make the debate any easier, it just draws attention to personal attacks, and that makes no sense. In fact, I was preceded by a Member with a previous question about how many individual projects will go to care for seniors' homes. That's a key area. In our expert opinion, there will be zero individual projects. Zero. And wages and salaries - the secretary said that's how she summed it up, but that's exactly the attitude of the state and civil servants. They still live on pay and forget about wages. I know it's like a synonym in Czech, general Czech, it's a synonym. But it's a big difference if we're only talking about those who are paid from public sources in terms of salaries or others. And I think the backbone of care is in the nonprofit sector. And there's no wages, there's wages. It may have been a miscommunication, but it's a long-term problem, and it's not just Secretary Maláčová. Also, when I was talking about the PR promotions, how the salaries went up - the salaries went up, not the wages! - play the press conferences when you announced the 7 percent. You spoke quite correctly about salaries, but that is discriminatory to those who do not work in the public sector and do the same work, only in the nonprofit sector. And I don't think that's a good attitude. [[20.40 hours]] And I still don't think I got the simple answer - why are you doing this so complicated? Anyone who has ever managed a European project knows the risks there - both in the application, during, in the billing and in the follow-up. It's just risky. This applies to every European project. And it's much easier to pay from national sources, social services. Much easier. Or do we want to burden all those providers with this enormous administration? Madam Secretary talked about how difficult it is. I'm not questioning it, it was an 80-page manual and everything. Why do it so complicated when it's easy to do it? Well, because there's no will! That is the only possible answer you can think of after three weeks of futile debates. I really don't understand. If it was a government that worked in some kind of austerity mode, would cut operating expenses, save from morning to night, I would understand the government's argument and attitude. I don't see anything like this from this government, so I'm asking you, when it's about everything else, and I don't want to name and build individual social groups against each other right now, I'm not going to do it to say take them, but in operating expenses, you're able to find that billion very quickly. Instead, you advise everyone to write individual projects. Madam Secretary here rightly said they should be innovative. And do you know what innovation is about in terms of dealing with a lack of money? We will extend the dates of individual projects. That's the innovation! And maybe it'll go through the MPSV and the managing authority of the program. Are we sure that the follow-up will pass and that the European money will ultimately be paid out of the European budget? Are we sure about this? We're far from sure of that. And I would like to hear here who will take political responsibility at this point and say, out of the 1.5 billion individual projects that they will write the regions, they will all be paid from the European budget to the last penny or the last euro and not paid from national sources. I wonder if the Minister of Regional Development will take that political responsibility, because it belongs to the department, or to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, because the operational program belongs to her department again. But the key question is, why are we doing this so difficult, why are we forcing them to write projects? How many people are going to evaluate this? How many people will manage it at the Ministry, at the edges, in individual organizations, whether nonprofits or contributions? We create a useless industry, and we needlessly miss out on money that could end up with social services clients.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u81	Thank you, and the Secretary of State applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, but I've only just realized how irritating my body language is today. It's not like I'm grieving over you or putting my hands in my head, no. I can't move all day today. She froze my neck and back. I know it shouldn't be done, but I'm touching it. So it's not the expressive speech of the body above you, but it's the constant touching of the stiff part of the body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u83	Thank you and now Mrs Šafránková, who is duly signed up for the debate. Mr. Jurečka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u84	After more than two hours, thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when the issue of the critical situation in the financing of social services was discussed, I expressed concern that we should not meet here again in a year under the same or even worse circumstances. This hasn't been fulfilled. My fears have been overcome. We meet at this point after ten days. The reason for this is that there are reasonable concerns about the fact that, instead of a functional solution to the issue, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs most likely merely introducing the classical Potěmkinův village and the lack of funding for providers and clients of social services do not actually exist in full. There's no point repeating most of what was said here last time. The situation is serious, really more critical. Our task is not to lie in your pocket and quickly, albeit on the second attempt, to find a solution, a solution that will operate with the whole missing financial amount in real form, not in the form of promises and unclear instalments, as it was last time. After all, even then, some regional councillors for social affairs and deputy generals expressed opposition to the secretary's agreement. Casting part of the missing money on social services through Union subsidies is an arbitrary, non-systemic solution, which, moreover, may be contrary to the original resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this matter. It is the avoidance of responsibility and the removal of a problem that will only come back as a boomerang and to an even greater extent and larger volume. The argument why we would spend money from national sources when we have a European one that has been spoken from the government in this context is therefore top alibis and, moreover, inaccurate. This European money, too, is largely the money of our citizens and taxpayers, and, above all, social policy is a matter of high importance and responsibility of the Czech Republic and, as such, we are to approach and fulfil our competences and obligations to our own citizens without a crutch of the European Union. So please, let us act quickly, clearly and responsibly. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] In this context, I cannot forgive the reminder that the SPD proposed several systemic resolutions here at the last meeting on the issue of social services financing. This resolution concerned the legislative legal anchoring of responsibility for -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u85	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask your colleagues in the room for more peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u86	- the provision of social services, the legal definition of their minimum national scope, as well as an audit that would define precisely and locate the causes of rapid cost increases in this segment. These very few days that have passed since the last meeting have also shown the acute need for these actions, and I would perhaps add to the need for a firm and precise setting of the limits for financing these services after the last experience. I therefore ask the Government and the relevant Minister, this time without a resolution, to take action immediately in this regard. I myself, the members of the SPD and certainly our entire Committee on Social Policy will certainly be willing to assist in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u87	Thank you, too. And now Mr Vondrák is here with a point of fact, and Mr Jurečka is withdrawing his application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u88	Good evening, I'd just like to apologize to the secretary for her head in her hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u89	Thank you. At this point, we have exhausted both factual remarks and applications for the debate, so if anyone else does not report to the debate from the point of view, Mr rapporteur? Or the final word. [[The final word.]] So in that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words from the rapporteur. Load the resolution in detail. In that case, there was no vote, and I am opening up a detailed debate and I ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I only wanted to respond with one sentence to the debate on individual projects and re-financing. That's exactly it. I just confirmed it. This is precisely what the Minister has been calling attention to from the start to the regions that they will not push themselves or the providers into trouble with drawing European subsidies, as President Stanjura rightly pointed out through the President. Then I'll just explain it to you. But let's get to the resolution. At this point, I would like to propose these two resolutions, and since they are relevant, I think they are voted together: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Calls on the Government and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová to quickly, by the end of June, ensure from the state budget the missing funds of a total of CZK 2 billion to finance social services, as the proposed solution of 7 June 2019 is only a partial solution, not a really necessary one; 2. Through the Government, Jana Maláčová has ordered the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of 9 July 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-008-244.u91	Thank you, too. These were the motions for resolutions. I have already called your colleagues to vote. I'll ask if anyone else has anything else to discuss in detail. If that's not the case, I've logged out the application, so I'm going to unsubscribe you. I'm ending the debate in detail. Let's take a vote. Everyone heard the motions for resolutions a moment ago, so there is no need to introduce them again. If there is no one against it, we will vote both points at the same time. It doesn't look like anyone's protesting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the '95 vote, 118 Members and Members were enrolled, for 56, against 11. The motion was not accepted. If there isn't a request for conversion or anything, then we have ended discussing this point. Thank you all. Since it's after 19 o'clock, we can't go on with any more points because they're laws. I'm done with today's meeting. Thank you all for coming. I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00.
