ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u1	218. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic or the Government of the Czech Republic as a whole and to other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. I now give the floor to Mrs Věra Kovářová, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš. Please. [[The microphone isn't on.]] Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u2	Dear Prime Minister, President Zeman has again not promoted the Director of the Security Information Service of Colonel Michal Koudelka. For the third time, the government has proposed him to be promoted to the rank of general, but for the third time, she left the President with an unfinished one. As the government itself justified this promotion, Colonel Koudelka is a person with high professional and personal qualities. The BIS under his leadership is achieving very good results, and even on your way to the U.S., the colonel was awarded at the CIA headquarters for excellent foreign cooperation. Mr. Prime Minister, how do you judge that President Zeman has just crossed the appointment of Director Koudelka again? You yourself said last October that President Koudelkův's promotion promised you. What happened to the promise? What are your next steps on the promotion of Colonel Koudelka? Isn't President Zeman ignoring Colonel Koudelka's promotion proposals, his duties? And does this mean that when someone, in this case the head of intelligence, allows themselves to keep transparently informed about Russia's security situation and activities, is it bad luck to be promoted even though they are doing their job perfectly? What does the President say by his inactivity? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u3	Thank you. The Prime Minister is excused and will respond to your intervention in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days in writing. Next, Mr Kolářík, who I do not see here, should speak to the Prime Minister, so his intervention is failing. And please Mr Výborný, who will interpelise on the financing of social services. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, on Wednesday 27 March 2019 this House discussed the Government's position on the problems of financing social services. Although the House did not approve the proposed resolution so that your government would submit a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies by 20 April 2019 to accelerate the financing of social services for 2019 amounting to CZK 2,072 billion, it nevertheless approved a resolution in which we ask the Government to open negotiations on the financing of the social services mentioned. I want to ask you whether the government has initiated these negotiations, or with what result, because there is nothing known about this to the public or to us legislators. I would also like to draw your attention to this, and at the same time ask you whether the government is aware that if this minimum CZK 2 billion is not achieved, that there is a real threat - not for the large providers, because the regions, or the large providers, will somehow cope with it from the reserves, but for those small providers, there is an imminent risk of redundancies, those who take care of clients who can't take care of themselves. It is very irresponsible, and I therefore ask you whether the government is aware of this and what steps it takes to ensure that social services are financed at least to the minimum, so that their activities in favour of their clients are not compromised. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u5	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister is excused and will respond to your intervention in writing within 30 days. As the next Mr Votava, who will interpel in the matter of the abolition of branches of financial offices, I would like to ask you first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, in recent weeks, the employees of some local offices of the financial authorities have been informed that their workplace is to be abolished. In the Plzeň Region, this concerns, for example, Sušice, Stříbra and Kralovice. However, it certainly does not concern only the Pilsen Region, but also other regions. Workers of these offices in the Plzeň Region are to cross over to others. They're supposed to go to Klatov, Tachov and Pilsen. In these cities there are to be established a sort of mailroom where, according to the information, two days, for several hours, two employees of the Financial Office are to arrive. The municipalities should be asked to provide space. Unfortunately, no one has officially dealt with the municipalities yet. Prime Minister, the government is becoming increasingly less accessible to residents of smaller municipalities and cities. The authorities are disappearing from the designated municipalities, where people have to visit larger centers. Then we can't blame the country for emptying out. The planned abolition of the offices of the financial authorities will limit the availability of services. For taxpayers, for a number of people, given the distance, it will certainly be a half-day trip. It just complicates their lives. Not everything can be solved online. Of course, older people have a problem with this. Not everything can be solved only in the mailroom. Just a personal presence at a branch office is often very necessary. I would like to appeal to you, Prime Minister, that the cancellation of branches of financial offices, i.e. territorial workplaces, be reviewed and not be implemented. The mayors of the municipalities concerned, local authorities and, mostly, citizens, taxpayers are also opposed to interference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u7	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. The Prime Minister will respond to your interview in writing within 30 days. Now, please, Mr Kaňkovský, who will interpel in the matter of increasing the salaries of nurses. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u8	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Dear absent Prime Minister, during last autumn, or virtually. As early as spring months, you and the Minister of Health have repeatedly announced that you are aware of the personnel crisis in the health sector, especially when it comes to bedside nurses. It was repeatedly mentioned that you would increase salaries for nurses, there was also talk of pensions, there was also talk of housing allowance. In the autumn months you informed repeatedly in the public media that the nurses would be increased by tariffs, the final decision came on 17 December, it was to be 7 %, and that the nurses in exchange operation would receive a CZK 5,000 extra. Unfortunately, after the New Year for nurses, it was disappointing because they learned from their management or their hospital management that many hospitals did not find sufficient funding for this increase. We have already opened this topic here in plenary, we have opened it in interpelations, you, virtually. The Minister of Health has announced that this is being investigated, that this may concern only two regions, but the information from the field is different. So I'm asking you, Prime Minister, are you solving this problem and is there a chance that it will be resolved within weeks, or will you leave the nurses in the lurch with a feeling of great frustration? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u9	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond to your interview in writing within 30 days. I now ask Mr Votava, who will interpelise on the abolition of branches of financial offices for the second time. No? Okay, the MP is withdrawing his interpellation. By doing so, we have exhausted all applications for an interview with the Prime Minister. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. I now ask Mr Votava once again to give an interview to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mr. Jiří Valenta will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary is sitting behind my back in the bench, so I'm sure she heard what I said about Margo's interpellation to the Prime Minister. It's basically the same thing. I remember 2015 when the situation was the same, there was a wave of resistance from the mayors, but also Members of the Committee on Budgets, senators and taxpayers, citizens. Then, in a number of things, they retreated from disturbing the territorial workplaces. I now believe that the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration is being very serious about this, even though we are unofficially learning these things, unfortunately. As mayor of the city of ORP, I'd like to know that someone is going to talk to me about this so I don't find out about it in different directions. Madam Secretary, I really think this is an unfortunate thing. It's got to be saved, I get it. But I'm asking if this investigation is in the right place. We keep saying that we need to bring the civil administration closer to the citizen, and we're doing the opposite, we're shutting the state administration away from the citizen. What I was saying will cause a lot of trouble to the taxpayers - our region is quite large, the districts are large, when people will cross from one end to the other, so it really is for half a day, maybe sometime for the whole day, depending on how traffic works. We want to collect taxes, I don't think that's the solution to even better tax collection. So I want to ask if you really mean it, to rethink it, and also to heed the opinion of the mayors and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u11	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I remember the time of 2015. Although I was not yet Deputy Minister, I was still at the General Financial Directorate, but the situation was diametrically different. It was particularly different from the point of view that at that time there was already a proposal for a change in the decree of the Minister of Finance, and it caused such a huge one - you must remember that, you were the chairman of the Committee on Budgets. And this is the fundamental difference. I would like to say that, on 1 January 2020, but also on 1 January 2021, which is still a period where, I hope, my competence will reach, there will be no abolition of the Financial Administration's territorial workplace. I'd have to sign that decree as Treasury Secretary, and I won't sign it. That means all the local offices will stay the way they are in the decree. That's what I'm saying out loud here, publicly, and that's what I stand for. The territorial workplace, as I have already said, which is not located in the headquarters of financial offices, which is a significant majority, needs to be realized, it is set up by the decree of the Ministry of Finance, it is decree 48 of 2012 Coll., and if this decree were to be issued - I say it will not - it would be subject to a classic standard legislative process. You know that. She'd go into a commentary procedure, and I'm sure you'd all know that, and you'd know that what I'm saying right now wouldn't be true, and there's no way I can afford that. In addition, the legislative process from the start of work to the end is 3 to 5 months, so I'm sure it wouldn't miss your attention. So much legislative framework. It is true that the tax administration has had a new CEO since 1 January 2019, Mrs Tatjana Richterová. She's been in financial management her whole life, she's an experienced mature manager who's driven such giants, for example, in recent times it's been our biggest financial office, and that's the financial office for the capital city of Prague, where she's achieved very significant results. She, of course, performs with her experience and with the responsibility she gained after appointment to this post, some kind of process optimization, performs a new systemization, regroups various departments, as she informed me. I don't have her exact designs on how this is all going. Of course, she also had an analysis of what it takes to visit here in the various territorial workplaces, which are not at the headquarters of the financial authorities, that is to say, whether, for example, the operating hours at these territorial workplaces correspond to the attendance and the idea. So that's legitimate. Of course, if she finds out there's some kind of territorial workplace where, as they say, the public will not be welcomed, it's legitimate that she might adjust the operating hours. As she informed me, we have spoken informally so far, I have no proposal yet, I stress that it is in her competence, so she says that she does so, of course, only on the proposal of individual directors of the financial authorities and will take care of it and will always take care to discuss it with the representatives of the municipalities, that is, with the mayors or with the relevant competent officials in the various places. So this little hysteria - it's not a big hysteria, it's a little hysteria that's gotten heated around it because I've been asked by several journalists, you've asked me, and other Members, I'm trying to explain it - of course, it comes from the fact that once the survey starts, the officials in that place start to get threatened and go complaining. That's common. I also come from a small village, so I know how it works. So they complain, and because we're such a little Czech pond, it's going to come out to you. I understand that you are active in the community or in the place where you operate, and then it triggers these divisions. I already, I think, responded to Mrs Kovářová's interpelation a while ago, where I made it clear that there was no decree to abolish the territorial workplaces of the Financial Administration, I will not sign such a decree, I will not send it to the legislative process if I am the Minister of Finance. That's what I'm saying responsibly. And I can't make a torn calendar out of my mouth. I don't even know about it - I've had it verified - that perhaps there is a press release from the General Financial Directorate. There's no such press release, it's not on the web anywhere, I've had my research done, and I don't have any specific information yet that the Director-General has any concrete conclusion. [[Time warning]] She's just mapping her turf, as they call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u13	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u14	I have the honour to be in that one village, the town of Stříbra, the mayor, so of course I am asked by both the workers of the local office and the citizens of the taxpayers. What you said might make me happy on one side. I hope we don't get it the way we don't cancel the zoning center on paper, move people from the house 30 kilometers away and set up a mailroom in our town. So I hope that this is not the way it is understood that the employees of that financial office will remain where they are at present so that those individual tax administrators can handle all the necessary things for citizens, for taxpayers. Then, if that's what you said, and as I think it could stay, and nothing would change, maybe adjusting working hours, okay, let's say, then I'll be happy. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u15	Please, Madam Secretary will answer the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u16	Well, I, Mr. Ambassador, do not want to move away from a direct answer, so I have no concrete proposals. I'm saying it's what it is, but if there's any change - and I don't even know that there's been any reflection on a 30-mile shift - you'll be the first mayor to just learn it from competent officials and who they'll be debating about it with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u17	Thank you. And before I give the floor to the next MP, I will introduce you to your apologies. Mr Vyzula apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for health reasons and Mrs Šafránková from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. And now, please, Mr Valenta, who will interpel the apologized Minister Staněk on the completeness of the crown jewels. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent minister, I ask you, are we really a state that is not worth having its own historical crown jewels in their entirety? It is also a profiling trend in monument care to return the symbols of statehood to the territory with which they were historically linked. What's this about? No more or less than the scepter and apple of the Czech Kingdom from the 14th century, as well as the ceremonial Czech electoral cloak. From the past we know that Czech crown jewels, today historically incalculable values, were transferred to Vienna for their safety during the Thirty Years' War and returned to their place of origin in 1791. In addition to the scepter, apples and coats mentioned above, they remained, perhaps not permanently, in Hoffburg. However, Austria has still committed itself to issuing documents and items that belonged to the Kingdom of the Czech Republic by the Treaty of Saintgermain in force in 1919. At the same time, no state that has changed from kingdom to republic then left the crown jewels held by the former royal family as private property, but that these jewels must always be regarded as public property of the state. So can you explain to Czech citizens why the state, which is very intensely claiming not only the legacy of Karel IV but also other Czech rulers, denies this by its de facto inactivity? Even without the aforementioned Saintgermaine Treaty, namely under the Austrian Civil Code, Austria is obliged, on application by the owner, not only in my opinion, to issue dishonestly held property. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u19	Thank you, and the Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Now, please, Mr Michálek, who will interpel Mrs Benešová on the matter: can I see your analysis of how to order prosecution? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u20	Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, how it was with the analysis or the opposing report, or what else to call it, in which you have expressed your opinion on how and under what conditions criminal prosecutions can be ordered in the Czech Republic. According to the statements in the media, President Zeman, here in the Chamber of Deputies, reportedly quoted by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and was to be handed over to the Minister of Justice to Mr Kněžínek. I turned to both the President and the Minister of Justice of the Kněžínek, and they both confirmed to me that there is no such analysis. So I would very much like to know directly from you, which you have processed according to your public statements, for which purpose, for whose order, what exactly was called, to whom it has been handed over, and for what reasons Members have no opportunity to get acquainted with it, although, of course, Members have, as part of their supervisory authorisation to the authorities, the executive right to request information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u21	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u22	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members. As regards so-called an analysis to be drawn up in connection with certain criminal prosecutions on order, so I must say that you should not believe what the newspaper writes. This analysis was never done if we were to name it that way. And since a proper meeting of the Minister of Justice, Mr Kněžínek, was held in Lány on 17 March this year, I was an opponent, it was only drawn up so-called. Opponent report on the concept and objectives of the Ministry of Justice with a focus on the state prosecutor's office, as set out in this topic. I drew up the report quite detailed, it concerned Prison Services, probation, mediation, legislation, and then it was dealt with what will happen with the prosecutors, because we have a task, and the task is really big, and that is to make a amendment to the Public Prosecutor's Act. I described the peripetia with the law that arose. Why the original law was stopped - because there was no control mechanism at all over the supervision, because the special had supervision at the time, but he didn't have supervision, so that's why it didn't like it and we got it back to work. Over time, a novel was considered. The amendment is now in the Government's legislative plan and it is basically prepared by Minister Kněžínek. I have described various phenomena that are currently up to date with regard to prosecutors, where I have also described bureaucracy, which should be demolished, and I have described three sentences - three sentences - two cases that are available from public sources, and this is the case of Beretta, where a resolution was actually created on the initiation of criminal prosecutions against a lawyer in a case that was Škoda Transportation versus the Czech Railways. The criminal complaint aimed at his punishment for fraud in the last paragraph, and the point is that there are basically no longer conditional penalties, where there would be a threat of punishment unconditionally, and that was a fictional criminal resolution about the initiation, which one police officer put into the system, even the police system, and the prosecutor accepted it. So all these people are being prosecuted today. So what do you think we're gonna call such a negotiation rather than order prosecution? And the next thing is finally finished, it's a well-known Neograph-Sitta case, where the judge describes it as such an unfortunate phenomenon. And that's the whole analysis. This material, which was presented to the President on my part on 11 March of this year, was publicly discussed there at the meeting that took place in Lany. There was Minister Kněžínek and there was no problem. So, of course, this document is not public, I worked it out for the President of the Republic's needs in a situation where I was an unpaid counsellor and I never dreamed of becoming a minister. So it's not available. If anyone demands this document, they must contact the Office of the President of the Republic. That's about all I have to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u23	Thank you. Will the Member be interested in an additional question? It will be. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. I was gonna ask you about that. You said you gave the message to the President, so I just got the answer from the President's Office that he doesn't have the message. So if now that you've become Minister of Justice - thank you for describing the information that's there - then if it's possible to publish the report and dispel any doubts around it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u25	Thank you. Madam Secretary will answer the additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u26	This report cannot be published, it is a non-public document intended for the President, so you will not get it from my side. You can contact the president's office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u27	Thank you. Mr Kolářík, Minister Hamáček, will now be intersecting in the case of hailing on Wenceslas Square. Before arriving at the microphone, I will introduce you to the apology of Secretary Jana Maláčová, who apologizes to us from 15 o'clock to the end of the day for business reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interview concerning the event on Wenceslas Square in Prague on 25 April 2019. During demonstrations organized by the political party of the SPD Tomio Okamura, cameras captured a citizen who raised his right hand to a Nazi greeting, right in front of the eyes of members of the Police of the Czech Republic. This act is a criminal offence classified as promoting and promoting a movement aimed at suppressing human rights and freedoms. A member of the Police of the Czech Republic is obliged to intervene immediately in similar cases. Yet it is clear from the well-known footage that the Czech media has flown through that it has not intervened. The Czech Police's comments on twitter later appeared - I quote: The police monitored the course of today's events and the records will be carefully evaluated. Police officers will also pay the same attention to social media contributions and the infringements found will be dealt with in accordance with the law. Also, the CSI's attention didn't escape even the gay guy in the green beret. The cops already know his identity. Dear Minister, I would like to ask whether the Police of the Czech Republic have any methodology on how to behave in these situations or at the sole discretion of the relevant member. I believe that the immediate intervention in this infringement would clearly and clearly define the boundaries of civil expression, which is or is not tolerated during the civil assembly. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u29	Thank you. The Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u30	Thank you. Dear Member, first of all, let me assure you that it is a criminal offence to challenge in public, and whoever commits this will be punished. You asked me a specific question, how are the police progressing, whether they have any methodology? I want to assure you that the police are, of course, first of all governed by applicable laws, then by their internal regulations and instructions. Methodical materials have a lot of cops, both for police management, law enforcement, extremist specialists, anti-conflict teams and so on. Of course, it is also practiced to manage such meetings. However, when a mass meeting is managed, there are situations where police officers have to take into account more circumstances, and this particular response is, of course, the result of an individual assessment of the intervention commander. You yourself described the situation that happened. Yes, it's been documented that the man was in the middle of the bargain. The police documented this act, identified the perpetrator, interrogated and, if necessary, initiated criminal proceedings. They just figured on the spot it's better to follow this procedure in this direction than to hit there on the spot. I suppose it would require the deployment of a special order unit. There might be a reaction to the crowd with some consequences they were assessing and assessing at the time. That means, from my perspective, it's absolutely crucial that the act was documented, the man was identified, and he's very likely to pay for his actions. From my point of view, the police had no doubt, they followed the methodology. I say again, the important thing is that the one who's playing in public will be punished for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u31	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u32	Thank you for your answer. I certainly wasn't suggesting that the officer was in any way in error. It is clear to me that in the event of this demonstration it can be complicated and the intervention itself could cause even more problems. I really wanted to see if there was a clear methodology for how the cops should proceed, and if there is, if there is, if there's any way we could make a deal, and if there's any way I could see her or look at her. Whether it's public or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u33	Thank you. The Minister will answer the additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u34	I'll just repeat, of course, the methodology is, but of course, the final decision is always up to the commander of the intervention. If you are interested, I am able to arrange for you or other colleagues from the Chamber of Deputies to visit, for example, the Prague Order Unit, and the police will probably tell you how they are trained, how they proceed, what the methodology is and what are all the risks and all aspects of such mass gatherings. So I'm offering you, we can make a visit to the Prague SPJ and there the cops will tell you how they're progressing and why.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u35	Thank you. And now Mr. Zahradník, Minister Brabec, will interpel in the matter of forestation in the Šumava National Park. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, the Czech environmental inspection is fined by small forest owners for unforested areas after mining where the wood was transported and sold. And it is quite correct and quite rightly stated by the inspection expert argument that on deforested areas there are changes in the function of climate, hydric and others. I ask you, Minister, how do you view the decision of one of your predecessors on behalf of the Minister of the Environment, Martin Bursík, of 2008, which allows for the suspension of the obligation to forestate shavings in the Šumava National Park by 28 years, i.e. 30 years. Is there a political decision, or a scientific knowledge verified by forestry practice? And my second question. How is it possible, Minister, that the production of seedlings is currently drastically restricted and that stocks of planting material in the forest nursery of the Šumava National Park administration are falling significantly? In 2014, this stock was 2.5 million. pieces, in 2017 only 308 thousand. pieces and as of 31. 12. 2018 only 206 thousand. pieces, i.e. less than a tenth of the state of 2014. So I'm asking you how you look at this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u37	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to respond to the interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your questions to my colleague Zahradník. For starters, just a little bit more generally, so that we can put it in some kind of frame. Forestation as well as other activities within the territory of national parks must be in line with the objectives of protection pursued by its publication and, at the same time, the management of the forest ecosystems of the national park is carried out in such a way as to promote or preserve their natural ecological functions and species diversity, thereby fulfilling the long-term objectives of national park protection. My colleague Zahradník and I, as well as many colleagues, know very well that, of course, in the national park, the application of forest law is in a different position than in the economic forests. In the territory of the national park, it is often used to extend the time limits for foresting and securing forest crops provided by forest law, especially in order to support and often to enable the natural restoration of forest ecosystems. In parts of the territory of the national park, of course, this also applies to Šumava, where space is given for the course of natural processes, there is no artificial reconstruction. Restoration in these locations is restored naturally within the dynamics of forest ecosystems without human influences. In parts of the national park, where forest ecosystems are constantly or permanently cared for with varying intensity, artificial renewal is usually approached in situations where natural renewal is not present or natural renewal meets natural tree compositions. In the conditions of our national parks it is mainly leafy trees or ate. In the case of Šumava National Park, the management of forest ecosystems, including forestation, is based on legal standards, which is above all the law on conservation of nature and landscape, as well as the law on forests, but also on internal regulations of the Šumava National Park Administration, which is undoubtedly known by Mr Zahradník. The problem of forestation in the territory of the Šumava National Park is mainly focused on the guidelines of the Forestry Activities Manual and also the director's command number 150 on how ecosystem care in the Šumava National Park in sub-areas. These regulations define the basic principles and procedures for forestation, as well as the approaches of care for individual sub-areas, which lead to long-term protection objectives within the territory of the national park. [[15.10 hours]] And now a few interesting numbers. For the existence of the national park, about 15 million pieces of non spruce seedlings were planted. If they survived in 100 percent, which of course is not possible, we are only talking in the theoretical plane, so we would affect the species composition of the coming generation of the forest by only 3 percent. And about 200 million crowns were paid for this planting. Natural recovery trends show, which confirms both large-scale inventory and biomonitoring, that the average density of natural recovery is about 6,000 pieces of new seedlings per hectare, and 80 percent of which is spruce. Interesting is its growing share even at lower altitudes. This is, however, entirely consistent with the new interpretations of pollen records and descriptions of original formations in Šumava National Park from the middle of the 19th century. End of závěr. Betting is expected to continue in the National Park of Šumava, but only in the zone of focused care and lower altitudes, especially in contact with other owners, and only non spruce ingredients will be planted and this is already done by the Administration of the National Park of Šumava since 2014. When you go to Šumava National Park, I think that all of you or the vast majority of you go there sometimes to see, some of you even more often, you go to some of those places, for example around Lake Bald, but not only there, so you see that the natural recovery works very well. The questions you asked me, Mr. Ambassador, are harder to answer because, of course, I didn't have any information about the seedlings, as the number of seedlings decreases. I believe that the answer to that question is in my previous answer. This means, if it is actually recovering naturally, and nature provides us free of charge within the national park, then, of course, it was inefficient to hold such a large number of spruce seedlings, which, of course, also mean some costs related to it. That's the first thing. [[Time, Minister.]] Sorry, if I wait for the follow-up question, if it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u39	I ask the Member for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u40	Mr. Secretary, this is all nice. But the minister, Bursík, who was there before you, issued his decision in 2008, after Kyrill, orcana, and abused the situation to expand the unswervingness of the Šumava National Park. That's brighter than the sun. You didn't answer that. You gave me some statistical data, and, of course, you quoted the law. And two. The fact that from 2014 to 2018, the stock of seedlings decreased to one-tenth indicates that you do not intend to put too much weight on the nearly half of the area of increased care. But you don't have the basic document, you don't have the principles of care, and it doesn't seem to me that you're in too much of a hurry to discuss it, and you don't even have a ring. So I see the great danger here that you will not forest and that you want from Sumava or environmentalists who are somehow running the ministry, so they want to turn Sumava into a whole hole. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u41	The Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u42	First of all, environmentalists do not run the ministry or run it by NGOs. I believe it is run by environmentalists, but not by NGOs, which does not mean that there are no environmentalists in NGOs. But I mean, it's definitely not run by NGOs. That's the first thing. The second thing is that, no doubt, there will be more bets on Sumava. And we will be judged, my colleague, by your means, Mr President, through history. But believe me, the spruce will survive only in Sumava and in the Giant Mountains, in the Ore Mountains, in the Jizera Mountains above some altitude, and in twenty years' time, all of us from the Republic will go there to watch what the spruce looks like. And that's where they'll live. So I'm sure we're going to be reforesting where it's really effective. And the number of seedlings, it also follows simply from the fact that we would be the spruce seedlings at this point essentially in the million numbers - that, by the way, is the problem of kindergartens and others, which today have millions of spruce seedlings, and he is not interested in them in the economic forests. And we are really going back, and we are very likely to go back to where the Czech countries were 300 years ago, where the percentage of spruce was somewhere around 10%. We have 60 percent of those spruce monocultures today. But there's no doubt they'll survive in Sumava. And to Mr. Bursík, my predecessor, I'm sure you understand that it's as if it's not entirely relevant to comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u43	Thank you and Mr Elfmark, Mr Hamáček, will now intersect on the situation in Vlachovice-Vrbětice, the current situation. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask Minister Hamáček about the current situation in Vlachovice-Vrbětice in Zlín Region, where there is still an intervention after the explosion of ammunition warehouses. Last week, there was a report in the media that bomb squads were switching to two-shift operations, and the reason is to make maximum use of the time to search in broad daylight. So I would like to ask the Minister what result the commanders are promising and when it is expected that the whole intervention could end. At the same time, I would like to ask him what subsequent guarantees for safe movement will be given by the inhabitants of Vlachovic-Vrbětic and, in particular, the owners of the plots concerned. In July last year, I received a letter from Mayor Vlachovic, who wonders that parts of the originally fenced land were again made available in January 2018. The mayor's worried it's not safe to walk on the grounds, let alone continue farming. I would like to ask for more up-to-date and detailed information on the intervention and, above all, on the security of the population. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u45	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u46	Dear Member, first of all, I would like to say that the issue of dealing with the situation in Vlachovice-Vrbětice falls next to the Ministry of the Interior and within the Ministry of Defence. I'm not making any excuses, I'm just stating the exact current situation. We all know that in October and December 2014 there was an explosion of ammunition warehouses, ammunition was blown into the surrounding area, at the scene of the event the components of the integrated rescue system were started rescue and later destruction work, which, among other things, consist in the removal of unexploded and exploded ammunition including components. However, in view of the nature of the emergency situation, it was and must be carried out in depth rendering of the parcels concerned. By order of the Government No 140 of 17 February 2016, a solution proposed by the Ministry of Defence was approved for the land within the original premises, which is the purchase or exchange of land in the hands of the state, respectively the Military Forests and Property of the Czech Republic, a state enterprise. This is because only their owner can legally carry out the in-depth rendering of the parcels concerned. This means that there is a purchase of land within the original premises with the aim of subsequent in-depth rendering. From the point of view of the physical provision of the in-depth rendering, which should bring about the subsequent smooth use of the land within the premises, this State will ensure immediately after the resolution of the property relations and the physical takeover of the land by the Military Forests and Farms. However, in addition to the above, we must also recall that the area affected by unexploded ammunition or parts of it is much larger than the former ammunition site itself, and the area that needs to be thoroughly repaired is much larger. It's 1,500 metres from warehouse number 16 and 1,000 metres from warehouse number 12. We are currently discussing several options of how to proceed within the Ministry of the Interior. The decision hasn't been made yet. The problem is that our decision-making mainly affects the complexity of negotiations with landowners, because there are about 500 landowners in that area. So there are several options. First, we're going to have to deal with land relations, and then there could be this deep rendering outside the compound. But what I can say now is that the destruction of the ammunition found will be carried out under the Police Department of the Czech Police Act. So at this stage, I can't tell you what option we're going to choose. I just want to assure you that, from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, the minimum burden on the residents of adjacent municipalities as well as the owners of the land located outside the original premises is the most decisive criterion for me. As far as the mayor's letter is concerned, I have dealt with him and I am in contact with him, and if we choose any solution, we will also vote for him with regard to the opinion and opinion of the local government. Otherwise, about the two-shift traffic. We're just trying to make the most of the capacity that's in place and speed up the process so that the difficult situation that's there doesn't last longer than is absolutely necessary. So I want to assure you that as soon as it comes down to a decision on what path we will take in relation to that area outside the fenced area, I will immediately inform you. In the same way, we will inform the relevant representatives of the self-government, whether it be the Zlín Region or the municipalities located in the immediate vicinity of the complex.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u47	Thank you. The Member is not interested in an additional question. In that case, next, Mrs Vrecionová Minister Toman, who is excused, should intercede on the reimbursement of Agrofert's national budget subsidies. However, I do not see the lady here, i.e. the interpellation is failing and we will no longer deal with her. And I beg Mr. Černohorský, who will interpel the apologized Minister Staněk on explaining the position of the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic on the integration of the system of state conservation into the state building office. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u48	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues. Dear Minister, I ask you, as Minister of Culture, to explain the request of the Ministry of Culture on the basis of a document by the Ministry of Culture on the substantive intention of the construction law, which was inserted into the eKLEP system on 26. 2. 2019, where on page 4 below in the last sentence, i.e. you give consideration - and I quote now: the overall change in the model of public administration performance and the entire system of state conservation care to integrate into the state construction office. I would therefore like to ask, Minister of Culture, whether you will not resign from the role of the Ministry of Culture in the field of conservation care by this request for consideration addressed to the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u49	Thank you. The Minister is excused and will respond to your intervention in writing within 30 days. Now, I beg Mr Adamec, who will interpel Mr Havlíček on the future of the resort. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u50	Yes, thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to have four insidious questions about Minister Havlíček, the Minister of the Ministry, which I consider to be one of the most important for the development of our state. And since we have encountered problems here several times, which I will now talk about, I would like to know his opinion as the new minister, as he imagines in the future, how all these cases will evolve. The first question is whether the state will benefit from lithium, as promised by the current Prime Minister before the elections in 2017, or the state will withdraw from this plan as a state directly and lithium will benefit in a standard manner through private companies, or whether the government has completely resigned from mining this important raw material at all. That's the first question. The second question is when will the supplier of the new nuclear bloc be selected. How will the construction be financed? Who and when will sign the contract with ČEZ for the state and will provide some guarantees in case of change of conditions, e.g. in legislation? Your predecessor promised that the investment model of the construction would be known by April. Actually, we're almost through the first half of May, so I'd like your opinion. Question three. The Prime Minister has repeatedly expressed the need to reduce the price of mobile data. How do you intend to accomplish this task? 'Cause I remember the last change, we just picked up the sanctions and did a boo-boo on them. Four. What steps will the MIT take to end the turmoil at the Energy Regulatory Authority that the government caused last year? I don't want to be called the illegal appointment of the new Chairman of the Energy Regulatory Authority Board. This office is an institution that has a decisive influence on the price and supply of energy. The mess in this office is certainly neither in the interest of the state nor in the interests of the citizens. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u51	Thank you, too, and please the Minister for Answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u52	Mr President, honourable Members, let me answer these four questions. I will start with what Mr Adamec started, which means lithium. Lithium is a critical raw material, absolutely essential to us. I, as I gradually become acquainted with all priorities, generally see raw materials policy as extremely important and, in general, I can say that critical raw materials should remain in the future, if at least a little bit possible, under state control. However, it must remain so that we do not harm any investors or anyone who may have already been contracted in any way. The situation is not at all simple in the lithium area, which, on the other hand, does not require the entire lithium. I think that maybe it's sometimes a little overrated not commodity, but even the area in terms of what eventually succeeds there, eventually, or not. At the moment, we are working closely with the Ministry of Environment on this. We perceive that three-quarters of the lithium deposit are on the side of the Czech, approximately one-quarter on the side of the German. We will also negotiate with the relevant German Federal Government, which is very active in the German area. At the same time, of course, we are ready to deal with those who have already started research there. Our aim will be to make the negotiations so that the Czech Republic will have in its possible mining and with anything that will be done in that territory so that it can have clear control over it. There are more options, but I don't want to see how all these negotiations end up, but we're going to lead them to keep us from losing control. As far as a possible nuclear block is concerned, the situation is that at the moment we are modeling a future energy mix, which shows quite clearly that we will not be able to do without the core in the future. We mean without expanding the core. The likely share between 2030 and 2040 could be somewhere around 50 per cent of the core, as several aspects need to be seen. Ad 1 safety aspect. Ad 2 ecological aspect. Ad 3, and I'm not saying in order, an economic aspect. Of course, our commitments to Europe, for example, in terms of renewables, must also be seen. But we're already counting and adding all of them, but if we subtract from the fact that we have to use or perceive the influence of coal dampening, which should be about 15 percent at the time, then when we do, the core could be somewhere around 50 percent. If we still take Dukovany's number one to four commute in those years and they probably have to extend, then only the other core would replace only coal. And there is still one factor to be seen - the cooling factor of the towers. Because if you're watching this, 2,400 megawatts is actually some maximum ability to cool what's possible today. And if we have about 2,000 megawatts there at the moment, if that means building another block with a power of approximately 1,200 megawatts, then at that point, we have to somehow shut down those old blocks. So it's a rather serious, demanding discussion that we want to do non-ideologically. We want to do it timelessly. You also know that the core committee, which is regularly convened, is represented by all parties, all decisive parties and all factors, not only from an expert point of view, but also from a political point of view. And now for the time horizons. I don't think this is about rushing something or rushing something, which doesn't mean we're sitting on a chair. I don't make excuses for being there briefly, but I have to say that I deal with the core practically every day, and we deal with energy requirements every day. And so far at this point, the timetable could be a follow-up: A contract that happens to be under discussion between potential lawyers today, i.e. there is a tender procedure with law firms, so this contract, which should begin to describe stage 1 and stage 1 would actually mean how the tender procedure will be organised, plus there will still be a landmark and there will be a confirmation of the Office for Nuclear Safety, so it should in any case be prepared and concluded by the end of this year. This means what the government's agent for the core, Mr. Jaroslav Míl, has actually said, so it should be fulfilled. This, of course, has to do with the course of the selection procedure, because the first contract will be up to a certain amount, which will be in the competence of the MIT, it will be called. A fast regime, however, the next part of the contract will simply be made a bit more demanding. [[The President draws attention to the expiry of the time to reply.]] I know, but they were four questions. So as far as mobile data is concerned, mobile data -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u53	I know, too, but I'm afraid I can't let you answer. The Member will ask you an additional question which will allow you to do so afterwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u54	Then I'll answer it in the other part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u55	Thank you for the floor. I would, of course, give the Minister the room to answer the two remaining questions, but I would like to respond to lithium. I'd take that as a normal extraction, too. But it didn't seem like it before the election. That's when it became a political case, and that's why I'm asking what it's going to look like, because there were so many words at the time, and of course reality will be some. That's why I asked about it, especially lithium. Otherwise, of course, I perceive that it is mining like any other, and it is necessary to treat it that way. But I'm saying, politics is made of it by someone else. I'd like you to answer those two questions for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u56	I also thank the Minister for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u57	So I'm continuing with the questions that were, that's mobile data. We solve the mobile data in a three-stage way. The first stage is what has actually been passed by the Chamber of Deputies, that is, a legislative package that will allow a faster transition from one operator to another operator, in the sense of less days, which will be discussed in its own transition from ten to two days. At the same time, no penalty will have to be paid, and at the same time, which is important, it will also be based on one million traders, which we have put into this. The second step will set up the relationship between the operator and its virtual partner through the controller. And, of course, the third, which is intensively prepared, if we tune the environment and it's attractive enough, which means for a potential fourth operator, is the auction to the fourth operator. The situation at the Energy Regulatory Authority should be resolved, if I am not mistaken, by 1 August, in the sense that it is preparing to tender for another member of the Energy Regulatory Authority, while it is known that whoever is selected will probably be the head of the Energy Regulatory Authority, unless there is anything extraordinary, at the same time as the head of the Energy Regulatory Authority. So it's a highly technical matter, we'll try to make it a man qualified with everything. As far as lithium is concerned, I have already said here that it is a critical raw material, not only lithium, but also others. The fact that this was a policy is true, but let's look for the truth somewhere before, because I personally think that we shouldn't have taken control of these critical raw materials in the past, I think it should have remained under the control of the state, even historically. The fact that we left this, not only this, but also some energy infrastructure completely free of charge, is returning to us today, and this is one of the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u58	I thank the Minister for keeping time and for making it all happen. Please, Mrs Balcarová, who will intersect Minister Brabec on the protection of EVL Keprník and CHKO Jeseníky. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to address the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec and ask him about the felling situation, which I see rather as a major intervention in the protected territory of Jeseníky, it is an area of European importance Keprink and it is happening there at this time, or for about two years now, to cut down high mountain beech trees, which is a relatively unique system, and instead of it, spruce are planted. I brought a picture here so the Minister would see that it really is. [[He's pointing.]] It's obvious that they cut down the beech trees and drop off the spruce. It seems to me that in such a territory, which is also European protected, it has a very negative impact on the ecosystem itself. And at the moment, when we all perceive that the Czech forests are at risk, and there is talk of the collapse of the forest ecosystem, I see this as really negative. I would add another case that has a common denominator, and that is cutting in the protected territory of CHKO Kokořínsko - Mácha Region, where there is also large felling around Břehyně, shavings are created there, spruce marshes are cut down and the reason is the solution of crust sludge. The Ministry of the Environment has directly agreed to this felling with the grounds for barking, but while the whole area is surrounded by pine crops that are not attacking the barking tree, the forecast for dissemination has been refuted by scientific monitoring. So I wanted to ask the Minister how he perceives these two cases, which I think are similar and have a very negative impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u60	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u61	Thank you for your question, Madam President. Here you can see how difficult this matter is, because a moment ago I answered Mr Zahradník, which, of course, is an absolute counterpoint, but we all know that. Of course, I would not completely compare this with this today a bit latent topic of cutting in Sumava, but it is more clear today that the nature protection authorities are dealing very closely with every particular example, and I really want to assure you that this is not like being thrown into a sack, because there is always an assessment of the unique situation in that locality, in that particular biotope. As far as the European important site of Keprink is concerned, there is the planting of spruce during the reconstruction of the forest, or the proposal to carry out the mining was dealt with in the approval of the forest economic plan Loučná nad Desnou for the years 2016 to 2025, which they had processed by the Forests of the Czech Republic. The competent nature conservation authority, which in this case is the Agency for Nature and Landscape Conservation of the Czech Republic, issued a positive binding opinion under the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act on this forest management plan on 11 June 2018. In its framework, the Agency has also carried out an evaluation of the effects of the forest economic plan on whether it can have a significant negative impact on the favourable status of the subject matter of protection of a European major site or avian region. At the initiative of the NGO, the Ministry examined this opinion and did not find reasonable doubt as to the legality of this binding opinion and therefore the reasons for initiating the review procedure in this case. The Ministry noted that the Agency for Nature and Landscape Protection has sufficiently assessed the impact of the proposed forest economic plan on the subject of protection of the European major sites concerned within the first and second zones of the protected landscape area. In conclusion, the Ministry also stated that the revised binding opinion does not replace any necessary permits under the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, in particular as regards specific territorial or generic protection. At the same time, we can all see that the current barking disaster in the Czech Republic is not avoiding protected areas, including the Protected Landscape Area of Jeseníky, where the situation is one of the most serious, and the European important locality of Keprik is also one of the areas that is really very seriously threatened. So there has actually been a review of this decision, this binding opinion, even within the Ministry of the Environment, and it has been confirmed. With regard to the National Nature Reserve Břehyna - Pecopala, which you also asked about, my colleague, I would like to say there that, on the basis of the agreement between the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency and the Military Forests and Farms, no mining interventions have been carried out since April 2019. During these months - she is still the agreement until July - there will be no mechanizations that would interfere with the particular species of animals, as well as the Ministry with the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency agreed that further extraction of barkwood on the territory of the national nature reserve will no longer be allowed and the entire territory will be left without intervention. I also say that the Ministry issued a methodological recommendation at the beginning of this year's procedure for the rendering of bark crops in CHKO and in small specially protected areas, and this document defines the basic approaches of nature conservation authorities so that the rendering work is carried out in accordance with the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act and in such a way that the objectives of protection are not compromised and all interests of nature protection are adequately taken into account. Once again, the methodological recommendation does not replace and cannot replace the administrative considerations which in any particular case belong to the competent nature conservation authority, but the Ministry, at the initiative of the NGO, will contact the Czech Environmental Inspection Agency with a request to investigate whether in this case the Military Forests and Farms have acted in accordance with the decision of the Nature and Landscape Agency of 26. 3. 2018.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u62	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u63	Now I have a problem because I have a lot of questions, but I'm gonna pick one, and it's about cutting down in CHKO Kokořínsko - Mácha Region. So I have information that with the cutting down, the creation of the holocaust is actually due to such massive cutting, the ministry has given its consent. So I want to ask if it's true that it wasn't the decision of the Ministry of the Environment, it was the decision of the Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u64	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u65	I'll confess, colleague, I don't have that information. But I'll check it out, and of course I'll give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u66	Thank you. And now, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel Mrs Schillerová on the matter of the abolition of the financial authorities. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u67	Madam Secretary, in the past oral interventions, I asked you if there was going to be a cancellation of the financial authorities. You told me he wasn't going to make a decree. However, when I checked the information, it is not a disturbance, but several weeks before my interpellation, the mouth of the Spokesperson of the Financial Authority in Pilsen was also said that there was no interference, but optimization. And I'm sorry you didn't have that information at the time. I've got a whole series of e-mails here from the mayors who say that the employees of the financial authorities have already received offers to transfer to other offices. Supposedly, it is also planned so-called. the introduction in large municipalities, i.e. in the ORP, for example in Chotěboř, in Valašské Klobouky, Orlová and then in the cases referred to by Mr Votava before me. And I think it goes a little against the concept of government, which says that it will be against rural depopulation and that it will promote the improvement of the lives of people who live outside the great cities. It's not exactly reversed, and there's no way to cancel branches and change to the mailroom, can't it be against the government concept? Because it is a cancellation of mails, registers, there is talk of construction offices and now also of financial offices. I have to apologize, but you, recently, I think in December, mentioned that young people would buy cheaper apartments in the country. But those young people aren't gonna go because the services aren't there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u68	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u69	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what I said in the previous same interview with Mr Votav, but I will extend it to what I did not have time to say. There's no decree going to happen. I'm just saying. I'm not gonna say that again. And basically, the Director-General is concerned with the progress of the Financial Administration in so-called analytical activities. A whole series of processes are being done today based on analyses. Therefore, she is considering various and new systems, new optimization. However, as far as territorial workplaces are concerned, I would like to guarantee that, and I have information directly from the General Financial Directorate, because she is, of course, cooperating with her closest advisory body, which is the directors of the 15, respectively. 14, if I don't count the SFU, 14 financial authorities. So it is not expected to cancel the territorial workplaces as such and the operation will be secured on official days vis-à-vis natural persons. Just for your information, Madame, we have a regime called the 23 territorial workplaces. 2+2 has long been for several years, which means two workers in two working days. Of course, this will continue to work. It will therefore be as possible, as at present, to make a submission in the mailroom, to submit an application for registration, to request authentication data for EET. And for taxpayers who come to deal with their other tax matters, they will be provided with relevant information. That's how it works today. It is therefore common to take over all requests for tax retention, requests for waiver of accessories, requests for information on the status of a personal tax account, confirmation of debtlessness and the like. During the period of January and March when tax returns on real estate taxes and personal income taxes are filed, both the extended number of days and workers are expected, which the Financial Administration has already done for a long time. Even the Financial Administration has been making trips to the municipalities for several years, that it strengthens and arrives there, you know the events, there are many more officials arriving and they choose directly, allowing citizens to file and possibly consult on the spot. The Director-General, and this is just general information without details, works like everyone in the public sector, at all ministries, on some optimization. I would also like to emphasise other such reports, which sparkle differently, that the Financial Administration should reduce 10 per cent of employees. It won't. It will reduce the Ministry of Finance resort 10 percent. That's my chapter. But the financial authorities, as part of the optimization of the agenda, the director is now discussing how to set up a new systemization, or how to optimize workers, so she also maps the yield of individual workplaces. I repeat again, the decree will not change. It will not basically change the system that citizens are used to. I would add that 24 territorial workplaces - not even 23, but 24 - are now in 2+2 mode, i.e. two official days and two workers. We do statistics, it's constantly being evaluated, or virtually. General Financial Directorate. No problems have been reported. The mayors, as I communicate with them, are more satisfied with the directors. And, of course, the principal assured me that any change from traffic would be discussed, consulted. On 23 May 2019, the Director-General will attend the 17th Assembly of the Union of Cities and Municipalities in Ostrava, where she is invited, and will present a contribution to this topic. And he already has several meetings scheduled today with mayors and mayors on this matter, with those who have shown interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u70	Thank you, too. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u71	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I think what's very important, and what inspires great passion, is the non-communication with the mayor. However, there is a promise that the principal will perform at the Assembly of the Union of Cities and Municipalities. And if it were actually possible to inform the mayors in time in the individual regions, because the mayors are then contacted by citizens with some loss of services and not by the Financial Administration. So thank you for that promise. However, there are still such numbers that it should be a transfer of up to 500 officials, which means that the optimization can affect not only the citizens of the CFI but also the companies... And they can move their mansions closer to larger cities. And we don't want that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u72	Thank you. Madam Secretary will answer the additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u73	I understand what was said here. However, I have been in the Financial Administration for 25 years, and I know exactly how it came to be. I know exactly. The principal, in order to deal with anything at all, gave her advisory body - the team of directors - a task. I've been fighting this my whole life, so I know. She told them to optimize, give me the stats as you see it. Is this how it's gonna work? And that's how he consults them. How else can he do it? It's the whole republic. And they went into their regions and entered it further. It basically fell through the system of falling leaf to the colleagues in the territorial workplaces, in the lodgers, and suddenly they were terrified that they would move to another community without falling. And what did they do? They ran to the mayor to complain to him. Or maybe they met him in the village. That's common. I'm also from a small village in South Moravia. So that's how it was. Believe me, there's nothing on the table. And when it's on the table, everyone competent will know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u74	Thank you. And now Mrs Krutáková will intersect Minister Brabec on the matter of mercury in the air. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am asking you a question about the limits for air polluters. About a week ago, the news server will be up and running.cz. he discovered an article with the title Brabec going to the hand of the coal lobby, with poisonous mercury being too tolerant, claims activists. This article says that coal power plants will be able to deduct 40 percent of the measured mercury values by decree from the Ministry of Environment. It is referred to as uncertainty of measurement and the Ministry argues by example of Germany. [[15.50 hours]] I would like to point out that Germany is the polluter number one in the European Union as far as mercury is concerned, and even there is a much stricter decree. The pollutants must first demonstrate the specific measurement error of their apparatus, and only precisely such can they deduct from the measured results up to a maximum value of 40 per cent. So I want to ask what is true about the fact that the Ministry is going to hand over the coal lobby and indirectly supports the polluters, or those values will be similar to those of Germany and what the Ministry wants to achieve with this decree. Whether to allow owners of old facilities to save money on investment or to protect people's health and the environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u76	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u77	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for the question, my colleague. Here you can see that reading some headlines is strictly harmful to health. I don't want to... But I have to say that I have the same experience with this, and I think that many editors in an article that doesn't contain anything like that to attract readers, so they're going to put some - of course a sensational - sensational statement into it. And I'd like to say, first of all, I'm sorry, the case that went on about it, because frankly, it's useless. Firstly, I want to say that this is the draft decree that went into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings after a rather large debate, and the debate will continue within the inter-ministerial framework. I think that the inter-departmental deadline is sometime in mid-May, and then they will evaluate and settle the comments that will come and which will certainly come from a number of NGOs, from different unions, associations, etc. Unfortunately, there have also been unfair arguments in these articles in this case, some demagogical arguments that have come from some non-governmental organisations of the type, that it will actually make the situation significantly worse than the current situation. It's the other way around. Today, there is no continuous measurement and, on the contrary, the introduction of this continuous measurement will mean a significant reduction in mercury emissions and indeed a major tightening up for issuers, respectively producers. And where the Ministry stands, on which side, if it is, of course, on the environmental and health side, I think it is quite obvious. And it's funny for me personally when everyone knows that I came up with the idea of the coal commission and other things that we would like to meet the coal lobby because I think there's a whole series of evidence that it's exactly the other way around. I say that the time of coal really ends or ends, and of course the tightening limits, the emission limits on everything, this does not concern only mercury, for manufacturers they are essential in recent years and they will continue to be crucial. Just please really allow me a few numbers, so they are relatively dry numbers, but they are quite important, and some of the information that is associated with this. First of all, the amendment to Decree No. 415/2012 Sb. Indeed, there was an added percentage of the result for the method of calculation of validated average values from measured values for continuous measurement of mercury in flue gas. Once again, I'm stressing the word continuous, because it doesn't exist today. Those percentages are consistent with European Union legislation and have been established for all pollutants which are measured continuously. The need for addition of mercury arose in connection with the new requirements for continuous monitoring of emissions, which are laid down in Commission Implementing Decision (EU) No 182/2011 and which sets out conclusions on best available techniques. Mercury has so far been measured solely by one-off measurement. And it already shows who knows how or how one-off measurements are going through and continuous, so it's just obvious that it's going to be considerably stricter for those large combustion plants over 300 megawatts of rated thermal input. The percentages that define both the minimum requirement for the accuracy of continuous emission measurement measuring systems and the value used for the determination of validated results are set in the decree for all pollutants measured by continuous methods ranging from 10 per cent to 40 per cent. 40 per cent does not only apply to mercury, but also to other HF, H2S, CS2, hydrochloric acid, etc. The possibility of continuous emission measurement validation has been in the Czech Republic since 2002 for waste incinerators and since 2012 legislation allows validation of results even for combustion stationary sources above 50 megawatts. The high uncertainty requiring validation of 40 per cent is specifically given for mercury by, among other things, very low concentrations of mercury content in the flue gas, ranging from 1 to 10 micrograms per cubic metre, as well as different principles of measurement of continuous methods on one-off measurement methods. [[Time warning]] If I'm gonna use the follow-up question again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u78	I'd like to ask the lady an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u79	I don't have an additional question. I'd rather just give the Minister the room to introduce us all to the text, and I just want to thank you for the explanation now, and if the decree really has positive effects, it's only going to be good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u80	Thank you and I ask the Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u81	Thank you for the extra two minutes. Indeed, the value of the uncertainty was taken from German legislation, but it is a little bit - we older people know the concept of Radio Jerevan, when some NGOs say, Well, why Germany. Because they're 40 percent, and they're the biggest. Yeah, but according to our information, Germany is actually the only one with long-term experience of continuous mercury measurement. Thus, after publication of the proposal, criticism has emerged from several environmental NGOs, which have currently sent out their position to Members and Senators, but these comments contain some untruths and inaccuracies and allow me to comment briefly on them. Firstly, the claim that European legislation allows validation only for substances set out directly in the Industrial Emissions Directive and therefore that the procedure of the Ministry of Environment is contrary to European Union legislation. This is not true, because the directive does not mention mercury in connection with validation, which is, however, due to the fact that at the time of its approval, which was in 2010, methods of continuous measurement of mercury have not yet been sufficiently developed, and thus this measurement has not been prescribed. In the framework of the European Commission Working Committee on this Directive, it has been confirmed that standard statistical evaluation procedures, including validation, can be applied to evaluate the results of the newly requested continuous measurement of mercury. Furthermore, it appears that the value taken from the legislation of the Federal Republic of Germany is irrelevant because of a different validation procedure. And it should be said that in practice the uncertainty found at this level, i.e. the difference between the procedure in the Federal Republic of Germany and in the Czech Republic, is very, very small. German legislation also allows uncertainty to reach 40 percent, and I say again, because Němec have the longest experience of continuous mercury measurement unlike other states. The claim that he is proceeding contrary to the Minamat Convention - again that is not true. This Convention does not set emission limits for mercury for coal combustion, let alone procedures for its measurement and evaluation of results. [[Time warning]] So really, we'll definitely get back to that in the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u82	Thank you, too, and now, please, Mrs Golasowská, who will interpel Mr Vojtěch on the issue of demanding professions. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, you know that, in relation to the retirement age limit that gradually reaches the 65-year limit, there is also a discussion about early retirement for employees working in demanding professions. I was told that to identify these challenging professions is a task for the Ministry of Health and I ask whether the Ministry of Health has any statistics on demanding professions and, if so, whether it is possible to obtain them. If not, within what time frame is the Ministry of Health able to deliver these statistics? This data is also needed for the pension commission, which will deal with early retirement for these selected professions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u84	I thank you, too, and the Minister is not present, so he will respond in writing to your interview within 30 days. Now, please, Mrs Pekarová, who will intersect Minister Vojtěch on the health nurses' strike alert. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u85	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, nurses Charity Czech Republic, Home Care Association and Czech Nurses Association have been on strike alert since August last year. This is due to the long-term underfinancing of home care, which threatens the existence of this field. Providing home health care allows patients to stay at home despite their difficulties with their loved ones. For families who do not want to use bed facilities, this is an irreplaceable aid, which is also more financially advantageous for both the state and health insurance companies compared to hospital stays. Even so, health insurance companies are at a disadvantage from hospitals, paying only part of the performance performed by health professionals. Thus, an unfairly regulated system of home health care payments withdraws the salary of a nurse who performs medical tasks in patients and whose work is to be paid directly from the reimbursement of a health insurance company, well below the national average of a nurse's salary. Without them, many patients would end up in hospitals, which is more complicated for them. During the last year, representatives of the strike ER have completed eight negotiations with both you and health insurance companies, but none of their requirements have yet been met. Minister, how does the government intend to address the crisis situation of domestic care? I repeat that if there is no significant change in the financing of the home care system, there is a threat that this service, which is currently being used by around 140 thousand patients, is being terminated. Are Czech hospitals prepared to take care of these patients? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u86	Thank you, and since the Minister is absent, he will respond to your intervention in writing within 30 days. And now, please, Mr Polanský, who will interpel Mr Brabec on the elimination of environmental burdens in the Dolní Vítkovice complex. Mr Polanský is present and has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, nice government, have a good afternoon. Dear Minister, I'm interviewing you in connection with the ongoing disposal of environmental burdens in the area of the former Vítkovice ironworks, namely the planned chimney blast in the plant called. agglomeration in the area of Dolní Vítkovice. Although it was originally decided to dismantle it, the decision was recently amended by the building office in Ostrava-Vítkovice and the chimney, which served in operation to caking iron ore before it was planted in a high furnace, and is thus still full of highly carcinogenic substances, is now to be destroyed. This was authorised by the District Mining Authority for the territory of the Moravian-Silesian Region on 29. 4. 2019. For information only, I give the reference number ABS 40384/2018/OBÚ-05/47. Unfortunately, the health risks of this way of removing the construction were not assessed directly under the decision of the competent authority during the authorisation process, as well as the environmental impacts. In view of the strong opposition of the surrounding population, over 700 citizens signed the petition, resulting from fear of massive air pollution during the blasting period, I hereby ask you to examine the entire process of authorising the sniper of the chimney concerned, as the risks identified have not been officially investigated. Thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u88	Thank you for your time, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u89	Thank you for the question. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Here you can see how colorful the Minister's work is, because I didn't know anything about the chimney in the morning, and now there's something that I might be able to answer to your satisfaction. The demolition of this particular building is part of the project to remove a total of 42 buildings as part of the removal of old ecological loads in so-called. agglomeration in the area of Dolní Vítkovice. The method of removing objects is specified in the project, for which all the competent authorities, including the Czech Environment Inspection, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Finance and a number of professional companies have agreed. The project must comply with all legislative regulations, including air protection. The method of removing the chimney from the gradual dissipation was changed on the basis of a static assessment according to which the chimney is in such a state of emergency, because it was built in the 1950s by economical technology and thus at the end of its lifetime. The Statician even forbade access to the chimney within 150 meters, and therefore decided on the need to smash the chimney. In this case, it is also necessary to realise that the gradual dissipation of the chimney would cause the same exposure as the sniper, which would take longer and, in addition, there would not be any reduction, i.e. capture of dust particles into the solution. All relevant permits, including demolition and decisions of the Mining Authority, are issued for the demolition of the chimney. The demolition of the chimney is also part of the 2001 Czech Environmental Inspection Decision on the basis of which corrective measures will be implemented. This year, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Environment, the Czech Environmental Inspection and Supervision in accordance with the directive of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment, the directive concerns the preparation and implementation of contracts dealing with environmental obligations arising before privatisation, approved the change of the project. In addition to the project, details of anti-dusting measures were required, i.e. about cutting down the chimney during the demolition. The expression of the blast itself is within the competence of the Mining Authority, which, among other things. assess the risks of this blast and address the conditions of the blast. According to our information, the primary problem is that the local association Saint Wenceslas is trying to prevent the demolition of the chimney itself and wants it declared as a cultural monument, but according to our information - I do not know if it is correct, so I can only say that according to our information the monument institute does not agree with this proposal. But to your question of the investigation, I would like to say that the change in the demolition project was actually taken apart by blowing up the demolition on the basis of the decision of the structural hazard of the construction was actually examined and approved by all the authorities, including supervision and including the Czech Environmental Inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u90	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, is the Member interested in an additional question? He doesn't. So we will proceed to another interpelation, and that is the interpellation of Mrs Dana Balcarová to Minister Richard Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you some questions that I have in mind regarding the design of the D3 motorway construction variant. I've got it right here, but it's in a small picture. [[It shows a map the size of A4.]] I think you know the situation. There are two variants. One variant leads around the original track of the current class I road and the other is led through a very significant area from an environmental point of view, from a water source point of view, in terms of recreational potential. It's just completely incomprehensible to me. I know it's not really your area, that you didn't design the route as the Department of the Environment, but it was suggested by the transport administration. But the Ministry of the Environment has processed the EIA or evaluated it, and that evaluation is consistent. I am very concerned about this because I think the impacts on the environment, and especially at the moment I see it as a big risk as regards water resources, which are very important around Jílové u Prahy, there are several of them, and the current resources will be threatened by the large construction. Many tunnels will be built there. The largest bridge in the Czech Republic should be built there. It's just a brutal construction that, according to estimates, should go one billion crowns a kilometer. So not only is it not ecological, but it is not economic. So if there's one aspect to it, I can understand it, but at this point, it's a mystery to me. So I'm asking why the D.O.D. gave the consent to the option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u92	Thank you for your question. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u93	You could have left that step there, Madam President, I would have felt bigger at least once. [[with laughter]] But okay. I'm gonna slide it in so quietly. Well, we weren't quite sure what it was going to be about when you entered your interpellation. So I'm more likely, because that's a relatively - as you rightly said - that's a rather wide subject. Total D3 assessment at all. But let me just comment on the whole route and then on the part of Jílové u Prahy. And maybe we can add the information in writing, 'cause this is a little bit more of a focus than what I'm ready for right now. But I'm happy to use this time. D3, that part of Central Bohemia, was assessed in terms of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act in 2007, 2012. The total length of the assessed section is in variants 58,2 to 61,5 kilometres. And the opinion of the EIA was finally recommended by the Western variant, part of which it is necessary to bypass Jílové near Prague, insertor Týnec nad Sázavou and so-called. Václavic clutch. For the Western variant, the Road and Motorways Directorate subsequently prepared documentation for the zoning decision and the Ministry of the Environment issued a favourable binding verification opinion on 6 June 2017 and on 2. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As far as the part about Jílové is concerned, because it is part of the assessed intention, the Jílové in Prague connects the D3 motorway and road II/104 and road II/105. And given that this is actually a northern and southern branch, these carriers will also perform the function of bypassing the city. Those feeder corridors are stabilized in the zoning plan and are included as publicly beneficial buildings. According to the EIA documentation, the northern branch of the loader will be built in advance of the construction of the D3 so that traffic can be conducted along its route during the construction of the D3 motorway and the southern branch of the loader. At the request of the Road and Motorway Directorate, the Ministry of the Environment has so far made preliminary comments on changes to the project within the entire length of the D3 motorway including those related constructions. And the only section where the Ministry of Environment has not yet received this request is bypass Jílové near Prague. The reason for this procedure and the current state of preparation is unknown to us. Information may be provided by the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, or by the Office of Roads and Motorways. Department of Transport. Well, I guess it's just a little out of context. If you are really interested in the overall process, why it was expressed on this variant and how, because it is really the horizon 2007, 2012, we will complete it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u94	Thank you, Minister. There is an interest in an additional question. Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u95	I'm gonna ask you a follow-up question, and I'm gonna leave the Minister here a step so he can enjoy it. [[with laughter]] And I wanted to ask. It's gonna be... So it looks like there's going to be a variation. He'll be bypassing Jílové, the route will look a little different if the Ministry is making a new EIA, or how it will actually cope with the changes. Thank you. I'm leaving the scale.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u96	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u97	Well, that's completely different. It's like incomparable like this. I'm a little worried about stepping on it. [[with laughter]] But at this point, my colleague, we are actually seeing a single section, and that is a stretch of about five kilometers. This is actually the area of Jílové until the off-level crossroads of the Hostěradice including. And so far, in this section, the Road and Motorway Directorate has proposed such a large number of changes to the intention that this has actually designed a comprehensively modified section of the planned D3 motorway. These are a number of changes in directional and height lines and associated changes in the location of the intention. And that's where we're officially at. The Road and Motorway Directorate informed on 25 October 2018 and unofficially already during the spring that there are a number of changes and that this possibility can be carried out solely on the basis of the procedure under Law No. 100/2001. That means, we are, however, a notification of intent, virtually. they have not yet received documentation of the effects of projects on the environment in this section. In our opinion, the above-mentioned new assessment according to Act No. 100/2001 on the changes to the D3 motorway if we do not require it, it could really have quite a serious negative impact then on the territorial decision and any other decision. So, as the Directorate of Roads and Motorways and the Ministry of Transport behaves in this matter, it is rather a question for them. We actually see this part of the whole section, which is about five kilometers, where, in the opinion of our specialists, there are actually a number of changes. [[Time warning]] Sorry. And in our opinion, it would really be important to look at it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u98	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Jana Krutáková with an interview with Minister Vladimír Kremlík. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u99	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I appeal to you in relation to the establishment of a truck park near the village of Lanžhot. This is a border crossing point from south-eastern countries. Around 250 to 300 trucks pass here every day and their drivers have no room to go to the bathroom, eat or sleep. The only truck park in the area is on D1 behind Brno near Ostrováčice. On this border, there are buildings owned by the State, namely in the administration of the Road and Motorway Directorate. Unfortunately, the state of these buildings does not care about the care of a good farmer and the entry into our Republic then acts as an entrance to the wild east. Not only are there dilapidated buildings, but there's also a mess, a lot of garbage. Trucks are then standing absolutely everywhere, which can be seen even on the way to Prague, when all open rest stations and petrol stations are practically full. So I wanted to ask you if you are planning to build some trucks in South Moravia and whether it is in your opinion appropriate to build them in this very place, where untapped decaying buildings are owned by the state. And the second question. For what reason are they closed and thus not used already built some resting places on D1? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u100	Thank you. As the Minister is not present, he will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mrs Veronika Vrecionová with an interview with Minister Klára Dostálová. The Member is not present, that is, her interpellation is failing. The next in line is Mr Jakub Michálek on behalf of Minister Marie Benešová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u101	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to address the issue which has attracted quite a lot of attention right now. I do not think that it is because of its content, because the suspension of the Supreme Courts has been discussed for a very long time, but rather in relation to the timing and relationship of some prosecutors to the case in which the Prime Minister is prosecuted. I'd like to ask Madam Secretary if she can shed some light on what she meant about the D.A.'s interference. I wanted to say that, personally, I and our entire parliamentary club are in favour of simplifying the judicial system so that we have a judicial system of general courts, which will be three-thirds and will be three degrees. Not like today, where we have an extremely complex system. However, I do not believe that the interruption of the Supreme Courts would be the only possible option. When we look at some of these foreign modifications, e.g. In the Netherlands, Finland and other states, when the judiciary is very well rated by citizens, the model remains that the courts that are under the highest court are relatively few, that it is necessary to have two, three or five courts. And our system, where we would get to a relatively high number of eight regional courts, which would be under the Supreme Court in the event of the annulment of the supreme courts, appears to be quite high. It would be rather difficult to unify the case-law from so many different courts. I wanted to ask if the Minister considered the model that regional courts would form branches of regional courts, that there would be an optimization of the judicial map on the basis of the annual statistical report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u102	Thank you for keeping time. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I'd like to read an apology. Mrs Helena Válková apologises between 16.15 and 18.00 for reasons of work and Mrs Dana Balcarová from 17.00 to the end of the negotiations for working reasons. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u103	Mr President, honourable Members, I am pleased that the pirát support the three-stage system. I'm sure we'll understand each other. What did I mean? I meant that in this parliamentary term, of course, nothing like this will be on the agenda of the day. I just wanted this matter to be evaluated once and for all. He started it with Otakar Motejl sometime in 2000, it fell under the table, then everyone wanted it, wanted it Pospíšil, here I have articles, wanted it other ministers, but it never happened. And since such a reform lasts at least two parliamentary periods, it is necessary to at least start preparing the necessary analyses and documentation to get on the right track, and when Mr Michálek is, perhaps, the desired Minister of Justice in the next term, he will appreciate my work there. I'm basically going to do this for the new minister in the new term, and then the minister should decide whether or not we're going to do this reform. It's not about abolishing the state prosecutors as I'm being pushed back, it's about abolishing both the Supreme Courts and the Attorney Generals. It's about narrowing the system to three degrees, because four degrees are on this country, which is a small, very luxurious lineup. So if that's enough for you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u104	Thank you. Mr. Michálek is interested? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u105	Thank you for your answer. I also wanted to ask about the additions that concerned the possibility that the regional courts were redefining, that they were founding courts and that the district courts would be turned into branches of the founding courts at the level of the judicial regions. This means that the judicial system would then start at the edge, the appeal court would be the supreme court and the court of appeal would be the Supreme Court, as the President of the Municipal Court in Prague presented in about six years old at the legal congress. This is also one of the possible variations. I believe that this decision, which option to go through, should be made only after detailed processing and evaluation of the judicial map, what is the idea in the individual judicial regions, districts, because those small district courts, where one of them has 6 judges and one of them has 72 judges, are really very unbalanced.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u106	Thank you. Madam Secretary is interested in an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u107	Well, of course, I'm not gonna make that decision. That's my successor's decision. You're right, there are problems with county courts, and the question is, how about regional courts. But, as I say, I'm preparing, or I just want to prepare the documents so that the new minister has a detailed map of how the courts go in the context of the time here, and what needs to be done, it has to be decided by him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u108	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava, who is not present in the Chamber, is next in line, so his interpellation is failing. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready with an interview for Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u109	Dear Minister, there are at least 1,100 children with autism who attend kindergarten. These children are having trouble communicating and communicating. They are greatly assisted by applied behavioral analysis, called ABA therapy. This is the only known treatment method whose results are supported by scientific research. This therapy can help most children under the age of six when they have the greatest potential for learning. It is essential for these children to learn to speak and eliminate problematic behavior. But there is one big catch. It is a very costly method, and health insurance companies do not pay it back. In doing so, the Ministry of Health has already committed itself in 2016 to ensure that insurance companies pay for at least the basic standard of ABA therapy. That would be good, but there's a catch. Nothing really happened. The Ministry has made excuses for incompetence with the professional public. The inclusion of therapy in health services should be verified for a pilot study, but this is a factual step backwards and it will not help parents. Dear Minister, why did it take three years for the Ministry of Health to tackle this issue? How long will it take to figure it out? Will it take another three years or longer? Do we really have to go back to the pilot study? I believe that the state should meet these children and their parents rather than delay the solution that will help them. Could you say a clear and unconditional commitment when you will do something about this shameful situation? What will be the timetable for the next steps? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u110	Thank you. Since the Minister is not present, he will be answered in writing to the interview. The next in line is Mr Vít Kaňkovský with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u111	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues. The Czech Republic has been dealing with permanent disposal of nuclear waste for several years. Nine locations are being identified at the moment. There should have been a narrowing to four locations, which has not yet happened. I don't know if it's just a coincidence, but it's more like geological conditions. There are four of the localities identified in the Highlands, in my motherhood. We all understand that the state must have some strategy for the permanent storage of spent fuel, although we all hope that before that happens, there may be some new technology that would somehow assess spent fuel, but we must have that strategy. Unfortunately, I believe that all of the identified sites have their weak spots, each maybe somewhere else. When it comes to locations in Vysočina, there are fundamental problems with the fact that there are significant sources of drinking water, including the water reservoir Želivka, which supplies Prague and its surroundings, the Hubenov water reservoir, which supplies the regional city of Jihlava, but also some others. From this point of view, the most risky location is Čertův Hrádek u Hojkova, but all the other locations also have problems. Citizens of these localities and other municipalities concerned repeatedly call on the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Environment and the Administration of radioactive waste storage to comment on their comments and to inform them of further steps. I would like to ask you, Minister, as the emerging Minister of Industry and Trade, what other strategy you see in the process of finding the final site and whether you are willing to communicate directly with the authorities and citizens concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u112	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u113	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for your question. I'm getting very sensitive questions today. Yes, the repository is one of the most sensitive questions to address the future concept in the context of nuclear expansion, because, as I said here in the first interpelation, the core does not miss us, the expansion of the core is quite a clear step with regard to a number of factors, both the safety factor, ecology and the economic factor, and in the finals, the factor that we have to take into account the coal downturn. That means, I'm just going to repeat what I said a few tens of minutes ago, the likely fraction of the core is going to be about 50 percent between 2030 and 2040. [[16.30 hours]] Of course, this is linked to a very sensitive storage area. I'm gonna recap now. At this point is 7 plus 2, I say 7 plus 2 locations because those two are connected to the locality Dukovan and Temelína. And the next timetable should be such that by 2022 the final two locations should be selected, in 2025 the last one should be decided, and in 2045 it should be built, by 2065 it should be completed and 2065 and further it should be operational. Now I'm probably not saying anything new, but what's absolutely fundamental is - that's partly why these sites are selected in the region of Vysočina, in the region of South Bohemia, in part Western Bohemia - it has to be a deep repository, that's one thing, and the other, there must be enough rock around, so that it's safe enough. Of course, the security issue is a priority, it is quite obvious. I must say that there has been a fundamental change within SURAO, or the key institution in charge of this. There's a new director, Mr. Prachař. I've already had the opportunity to meet him, from my point of view he's a qualified person, he's a highly communicative person, and he's a person who bets - and not just him, but also his team - on the fact that he has to deal very sensitively, highly qualifiedly and, above all, personally with all the areas concerned. I dare say that this will be a major change in SURAO's communication to those areas concerned, because I respect that in the past - and now I'm not looking for a culprit - the communication problem was obvious. In a whole series of procedures followed by the system here is the state and we decide and here is someone who adapts, which I think is wrong, it just can't be. This is such an important thing that will affect, to some extent, economically, perhaps sociologically, the areas in question, and this must be treated accordingly. So the communication style is changing, and the communication will first be on a personal basis, on a personal basis, of course, both the management of SURAO and the management of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and I can guarantee you that I will simply go around all the areas that are there, meet with representatives of those areas, that means local authorities or the mayors, and, of course, with the public who will be interested in discussing, both with the one who simply wants to hear only what will be there, and with the one who is acting in some more fundamental way against today. It's just part of the debate. So that's my position. Of course, I'm going to want everyone competent from the Ministry to communicate there afterwards, in this case, especially the Deputy Energy Officer. However, it's used today, we're starting to use new communication tools, now I don't want to go into details like when a new communication web is being created. It will be communicated through new technologies. Because let us be aware that this is also of interest to the young generation, who today simply requires this kind of communication. Well, that's obvious. Of course, it must also be done at the level of economics, that is to say, it must actually be said openly what benefits these particular locations may have from this. It has to be explained to them. It must be said how to ensure that they can sleep peacefully in quotation marks, which means that they will not be threatened in any way by their safety or that there is no contamination or anything else. There must be examples from the world. We are not the only country to deal with this. In fact, every nuclear in quotation marks is dealing with nuclear waste today. Let's look at France, where the 75 percent share of the core is, let's look at Slovakia. I had the opportunity to act, it was a week, a week exactly, with the Prime Minister of Slovakia and with the Minister of Economic Affairs, where he deals with similar matters. We look at the way it is handled in Scandinavian countries, and virtually every country in the world, not to mention America, Japan, or China, just has a regime to do it and solve similar problems. [[Your time, Minister.]] So we're going to look at the most advanced countries, and that's how we're going to do it, and that's how we're going to communicate with individual locations and their representatives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u114	Thank you. Interest in the supplementary question is. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u115	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Although I am now in the hope that the communication style towards the municipalities and municipalities concerned and, of course, the citizens will be more progressive from your side, I will be very happy to meet you in the Highlands. I see a colleague of Mr Kott here, who is also from the locality, so maybe there will be more of us there. And maybe one additional question. The Highlands are now being prosecuted by more disasters. We all know that the barking calamity is really at the top of the Highlands right now, and unfortunately, it's going to interfere with most of the Highlands. Of course, we have problems - and this has to do with it - with water resources. That means, is there any way to project this, can we say, maybe even an ecological disaster that seems to be facing the Highlands, even in the reflections of a deep repository?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u116	So, please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u117	So it would be unfair for me to promise, rule out, or just show what it's gonna be or not. I am actually convinced that after all the cards are placed on the table, everything will be explained, financial benefits will show up, it will turn out to be a safe thing, after the key locations are chosen, or we're having fun after the two locations are selected in 2022, so that the discussion may be a little different. And most importantly, if expert discussions are involved, if specific examples from the world show up, if it turns out that there's really no danger and it brings it to the localities, I don't want to say for life, but just for a long time high economic benefit, so maybe the view will change. I don't want to say right now that it's going to be a competition for who gets it, but in any case, maybe some of it or some of it will be a little bit more peaceful. So I don't want to be here to be a bitch about who it touches more or less, but in any case, what you're saying is definitely taking into account the finals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u118	Thank you. The next in line is Mr. Černohorský with an interview with Minister Staněk. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u119	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Minister. I would like to inform here about the stage at which the preparation of the new law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of natural resources, and whether the Ministry of Culture, if any, is considering changing the organizational arrangement of the state conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the land in order to simplify it, i.e. the abolition of the so-called abolition. double-tracking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u120	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, according to the 2019 legislative work plan approved by the Government Resolution of 12 December 2018 No. 830, the Ministry of Culture has the task, among other things, to submit a draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund, within the period until 30 September 2019. The Ministry of Culture is working intensively on this draft and I assume that the above term will be respected. The Ministry of Culture is based on the current model of public administration performance in the field of conservation in the design of the law on conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund. The most important role in this system lies with the municipal authorities of municipalities with extended competence and regional authorities, and both institutions perform conservation care as a performance of the state administration in the delegation. The Ministry of Culture and, in the case of inspection activities, a memorial inspection also plays an important role. The National Heritage Institute will continue to function as an expert component. The Ministry of Culture therefore does not expect to change the original structure of conservation care or the establishment of new offices in the field of conservation care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u122	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? I see you do. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u123	So I would ask you when do you suppose there would be a need for a commentary procedure that we could possibly enter if you were to submit a substantive bill? And another one. I was just asking about the simplification. Given that the Ministry of Regional Development at this time in the context of the recodification of construction law assumes that the construction authorities will be separated from the municipalities, whether you can possibly expect this option for the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u124	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u125	So when it comes to sequestering the landlords or the National Monument Institute, nothing like this is expected. It is assumed that in the framework of the construction process there will be one large building and management in the area of conservation care, however, there will continue to be an obligation to respect and cooperate with the trade unions of conservation care. As far as the comment procedure is concerned, of course, we are not only assuming that the law will go through the internal comment procedure then, of course, into the relevant interministerial commentary procedure, and I also prepare a seminar to introduce the relevant proposal to Members and Senators.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u126	Thank you. The next in line is a Member, Ivan Adamec, with an interview with Minister Vladimír Kremlík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u127	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues. Dear absent Minister of Transport, with your accession to the Ministry of Transport, I would like to know your views in answer to such four fundamental questions. You've already worked at the Ministry, but I don't want to discuss that here. I might be interested in your views on the situation we have at the moment in transport. The first question is how do you decide to charge or not to charge 900 km of I. class roads, when the government repeatedly refuses to comment on this. When will the municipalities and regions learn about this decision? Question two. When are we finally gonna get an electronic highway sign? Will the system be connected to a new toll system and used to serve toll gates, or will it be built on green meadows? A third, no less important question. How do you intend to speed up the preparation of buildings and the construction of transport infrastructure itself? And the fourth question. When the D1 motorway will definitely be repaired. And is the state really in control of the repair process? I ask therefore, today the article published that the section of the D1 motorway between Humpolec and Větrný Jeníkov will be attended by SKANSKA, which will replace the consortium of companies where GEOSAN and Kazaši dominated. And more or less this tender for this other company was not actually carried out. The media informs that it was without a tender, which I find incredible that there had to be some sort of selection. And the question is, do you consider the way in which we work together as Minister Took and the subsequent selection of a new company, as I have spoken, whether you consider it economical and correct? [[Time warning]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u128	Thank you. The Minister, as he is not present, will reply in writing to this interpelation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mr Lukáš Černohorský, no, sorry, I am sorry, MP Pavla Golasowská with an interview with Minister Richard Brabec. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u129	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, you have recently told yourself that butterflies and other insects are disappearing from the Czech countryside, that we will only find an insect community in Sumava and other mountains. Serious study of insect status in Czech nature is still missing. A similar study in Germany has shown that insects have decreased dramatically since 1989, up to a quarter of the insect population, while at the same time 39 percent of the species are extinct. This information in Bavaria, Germany, triggered a wave of demonstrations and people's interest in preserving insects in the countryside. The campaign was known primarily as the Save Bees campaign. One and a quarter of a million German citizens signed a petition demanding an insect protection law that would provide for a new obligation for farms to put at least 10 percent of the land at rest and limit the use of chemical resources. The plan for insect protection envisages an investment of approximately EUR 100 million each year and around an additional EUR 25 million for research. This project also includes restrictions on the construction of motorways, the increase in emission, light limits and a significant modification of the rules for the use of pesticides. Furthermore, there have been strong carcinogenic effects of the herbicide glyphosate, a number of countries have banned the production and use of this herbicide, but in our country glyphosate is continued to be used. Minister, will you enter a similar serious study to map the state of the Czech insect population and present a similar law in the government for the protection of insects, which would require that part of the land be put to rest and restrict the use of herbicides and pesticides? If you do not intend to do so, why and for what reason? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u130	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister to respond to this interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u131	Thank you for your word, thank you for your question to your colleague. At this point, we do not have such a study in the Czech Republic comprehensively, but we have a whole range of information about individual species that suggests that if this study were to be created and, of course, it means quite a great deal of time to process it, so I dare say that it would come to very similar conclusions as the study in Germany. It is not just Germany, the situation is similar in France, the situation is similar in many other European countries. This means, of course, we have a number of specific information within the Czech Republic from the Nature and Landscape Agency, and I will get to them shortly. Moreover, the decline in insect size is not uniform, but concerns particularly sensitive and often specialised species, while the number of other agricultural pests may rise. We were here a few tens of minutes ago or an hour ago talking about bark. And that's where I think we have so much of this sub-corn bug right now that we'd like to get rid of it. But where the insect is actually dwindling, what is understandable for all and comparable for all, is what I also mentioned now, when I was asked when planting the brown asian caterpillar for it, and I said that for normal citizens who are not insect specialists, so are visible two categories or two parameters: firstly, that out of our bows of course disappear butterflies as such, for the layman the most visible marker, and for the driver that we have far cleaner glass from the car when we drive in the summer, compared to the situation that was here a few years ago. These are very simple, let's say, markers or a comparison of the fact that even in our nature the number of species is dramatically - we can mention this on the number of butterflies, the daily butterflies that have become extinct more than 11 percent over the last few decades. This means that out of 161 species of daily butterflies, 18 and 16 other species, i.e. around 10 percent, have decreased the areas of enlargement, which means that they are at risk. And this, of course, is something that's really bothering us. The causes of this state are, I think, well known today throughout Europe. Above all, it is the legacy of changes in the use of the landscape since the second half of the 20th century, i.e. the extensive effects of collectivization, removing limits, drawstrings, drainage of land and destruction of wetlands and, of course, intensive agriculture. That's, I think, something that's not news. But it is not, my colleague, by your means, Mr President, just the law on the protection of insects. It is about concrete measures to protect biodiversity, both the conservation of the state of nature valuable territories and the landscape as a whole. The Ministry of the Environment has a number of programmes and also implement them, programs that promote improvement of landscape functions, revitalization measures. We make these measures thousands of times a year, whether from the Landscape Care Programme from the national budget, as well as from the Operational Programme Environment, of course. For the most endangered species, the Ministry then adopts rescue programmes involving measures necessary to stabilise stocks. This must be the program for the brown ass. And other similar programs are being prepared, but of course not only for insects, but also for birds. What is absolutely essential, however, is that we have initiated a number of measures under the common agricultural policy, the previous common agricultural policy, such as agri-environment-climate measures to support bio-bands, including the variant with plant species for insects, the measures to support blues, the rattles of the field, the Chews, the specific care of the watered meadows or species-rich pastures, and that, of course, today we are working intensively together and pushing our demands within the new common agricultural policy of the European Union for the next programming period 2021 to 2027. Because that's the main area we need to focus on. [[Time warning]] There's no special law that's gonna help you. We have to take concrete measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u132	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? [[Yes.]] I'll read the apology before the mic comes. Mr Martin Jiránek apologizes today between 16.32 and 18 hours due to the hearing. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u133	I, Minister, would like to ask what I have asked, that is to say, the restriction of the glyphosate that has been shown to have the carcinogenic effects. How we set it up with us, whether we are going to limit it as well. And I just wanted to ask, does that mean you're not going to do a big study by saying that we have some partials, so you're not going to do a complex study? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u134	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u135	So I'll start with glyphosate, so that's the defense of the Ministry of Agriculture, because that's actually a gesture, but it's not alibism on my part, that's a statement. Firstly, we have here an action plan to reduce pesticides. Glyphosate is one of the organophosphates, which is being discussed quite significantly today at European Union level, because the opinions of experts vary, to what extent glyphosate is dangerous or not dangerous, rather dangerous to health. But the fact that, in general, organophosphates or pesticides or insecticides are of course harmful to insects, I think, is not the debate. There, of course, has a negative impact on the insect population. According to my information, first of all, other measures are being prepared, and they are already being implemented to reduce the consumption of pesticides or insecticides that the Ministry of Agriculture is planning and implementing today. We are sure to comment on this, and we will continue to express ourselves as the Ministry of the Environment towards the Ministry of Agriculture, and it is certainly in our interest. As far as a specific study is concerned, I do not yet know that it would be prepared, at the moment it would be a matter for the Agency for the Conservation of Nature and Landscape. But, as I'm saying, we have enough information on individual insects that tell us that our situation will certainly not be better than the situation in Germany. So we would almost 100% get to very similar information because we have it from a number of special species, see butterflies. So we're actually able to say that from the partial information we have, we would have come to the same comprehensive conclusion. And I think it's more important what we're going to do about it than how we're going to figure out that our goat died, with forgiveness, like in Germany.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u136	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Ivan Adamec with an interview with Minister Vladimír Kremlík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u137	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues. Dear absent Minister, as soon as you joined your post as Minister of Transport, you called off the former head of ŘSD Jan Kroupa, which is, of course, in your competence, I do not blame you. Everyone who has ever worked with ŘSD, we have a lot of comments on the activities of this state organization. I don't think it hurts to move around a little bit. However, I am interested in another matter, and that is the question of the appointment of the new CEO Pavol Kováčik. I also have nothing against the name and the gentleman. Absolutely not. But it was without a tender, and that surprised me. Because five years ago, when the then CEO or, respectively, he applied for the then CEO of 29 candidates, it's five years ago, no one will explain to me that the situation has gotten much worse - now all of a sudden, one without a tender, which probably has your sympathy, Minister. But I think it's also your justification that an organization that doesn't have leadership, that it's not effective - well, that may be true, but that could have been resolved by some transitional state, interim leadership, and the selection of a new high-quality candidate. I think I hear a constant struggle here for transparency, selection procedures. And there's nothing here. There's nothing here. There's a man who I don't know anything about. As long as the Minister knows. But definitely, what I'd like to say here is that it's not a comfortable situation for the CEO, either. Because if he didn't come out of the tender, then the public will always look at him with distrust. And always people who go through transparent selection procedures are much better off in terms of their position to hold that position. Better. So, Minister, can you explain this to us in detail and better when you told the media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u138	Thank you. It will be answered in writing for this interpellation. The next in line is Mr Lukáš Černohorský with an interview to Minister Richard Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u139	So hello, thank you for your word. The Ministry of the Environment is the body of supreme state supervision in environmental matters. As part of the process of dealing with old environmental burdens, it is also a professional guarantor who issues for documents processed in individual stages the removal of old ecological burdens of an opinion, in particular on risk analyses and updates thereof, on final reports on surveys, on implementation projects of measures and their methodological changes, feasibility studies to conclude new ecological contracts and to terminate them. The Ministry of the Environment had been invited to the inspection committee and there fell mainly from representatives of the Ministry of Finance information on the fact that, as part of the liquidation of the old ecological burdens of the Ostramo lagoon, it was no longer active liquidation but passive. That means all the mess we have left behind stays in place. So what is the opinion of the Ministry of Environment on the passive remediation of Ostramo lagoons? If the Ministry of the Environment agrees to the passive disposal of the contaminated site, why did it suddenly change its mind when the liquidation was as if active so far?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u140	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u141	From insects to lagoons. My colleague, thank you for the question. I'm very happy to be able to use this forum as well. That's the classic confusion of the terms of this. But not from you, I wouldn't dare, but the confusion of concepts that have appeared surprisingly to me in the media lately, and I was actually wondering what has become so important in the meantime. 'Cause I'm gonna explain it to you right now, and I think it's pretty easy. In Ostramo lagoon space, first of all, contaminated sludges are being repaired, these are the own lagoons full of that shit, as you rightly said, which have been there for decades, of a liquid nature, which also contain so-called filter earths. And then there are so-called earths, and they're actually around those lagoons in part, and they're solid in nature. The sludges and earths, which means what most stinks and annoys the surrounding area, are currently being bailed out by the contractor, which is AVE, and their remediation, removal, transport and disposal, in this case mostly by burning, will be completed as planned by the end of 2020. This is true, and according to the latest information, the term should also apply that the sludge should be adjusted by May, by the end of May - this year I stress - so that it is basically inert and does not bother the surrounding area. This means that the sludges in the last remaining lagoon should be prepared, more or less neutralized within a few weeks, should not bother the surrounding areas and will wait gradually for the transport of special railway wagons to the disposal site. And that should end by 2020. There. In addition to the sludge, there are so-called earths that are at different levels of pollution. It's not the real lagoons, it's the liquid lagoons or the contents of the lagoons, it's the surrounding area. And the soil management is governed by the valid opinion of the Ministry of the Environment from April 2018, which, if I make it very simple, requires the re-classification of contaminated floors, the removal of earths whose contamination exceeds any specified limits, to external disposal - if I am not mistaken, it was somewhere around ten grams perhaps per tonne or per cubic metre of substance, oil substances per tonne of soil - stabilizing other overclassed earths and insulation of the entire area by appropriate geotechnical security. The final version of the opinion was discussed and agreed by the working group in which all participants were represented, i.e. the statutory city of Ostrava, Moravian-Silesian Region, DIAMO, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environment and Czech Environmental Inspection. [[17,00 hours]] What you're talking about, and what came up on the inspection committee, I think the Ostrava City Council, too, was a surprise to me that it was taken as new information at all. Because that's what they call it. the ecocontainment or sarcophagus of the completely residual, i.e. at least contaminated material of the earth - I stress the earth, not lagoon - was decided in 2017. And nothing's changed since that decision. So two years is known as the option that the least polluted soil would remain in some sort of sarcophagus under some pretty clearly defined conditions so that it is absolutely essential to ensure that they do not harm further. And on the other hand, the thermal desorption that was originally thought of and what it was worth or built there was that amazing structure many years ago, it just turned out that if someone had let it go into processing those earths, there would have been so much hydrogen that there would probably have been an explosion and devastation of the entire environment. But that's the horizon, maybe seven, eight years ago. So the sludge will in any case be transported by the end of next year at the latest, and within a few weeks they should completely stop bothering the surrounding area. The earths will be reclassified. Those that will have some extraliminal content will also be taken to liquidation and should be left with only the minimally polluted soil in some ecocontainment, and this is not really a new issue, it is a matter about two years old, already the decision. If that's enough?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u142	Thank you. There's an interest in an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u143	I'd just restock it. It was not directly on the Audit Committee in Ostrava, but here on the Audit Committee in the Chamber of Deputies, when we discussed the audit conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office. And that's where one of the questions was about how it would be disposed of in the future. And it was the representatives of the Ministry of Finance who didn't have much to answer, and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance took over, and I just rewrote their reaction from the audio recording. And that's the question I was asking here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u144	Next in line is Mrs Pavla Golasowská with her interpelation and Mrs Jana Maláčová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u145	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I have a few questions for you. In 2017, the Committee on Social Policy called on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to present statistics to show where the children placed in temporary foster care leave after the end of the statutory period of their stay and what their further movement in the system of social-law protection for children is. The question is still up to date. The next question concerns the overview, it is a question again on the MPSV, what is the number of available long-term foster parents on the edges and the number of children who are in the register of children suitable for long-term foster care. The next question concerns the recruitment of new transitional foster parents in a situation where those included in the scheme are not used. For example, I have here a specific case of a foster home for a transitional period, which was actually five months without a child, which means that she was free to receive a child. And the last question concerns the specialization of foster parents for a transitional period, i.e. whether special training is being prepared, both legislatively and practically. This means specific training of foster parents for the care of children with disabilities, with mental illness and so on. Thank you for answering my questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u146	Thank you. It will be answered in writing for this interpelation. The next in line is Mr Jakub Michálek with an interview with Minister Klára Dostálová. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u147	Madam Secretary, Dear Government, dear colleagues, this is not even my first interview on the subject of the digitalisation of the building process, and I believe that this is not even the last interpelation on this subject. Because at the beginning of the parliamentary term, I strongly appealed to the Ministry to move the matter, but unfortunately we have not yet seen the Ministry of Regional Development submit an amendment to the Chamber of Deputies to address the digitalisation of the building process, which should take place before the entire recodification is presented. I want to remind you that we agree to simplify building law and a principle such as one stop shop. And we agree that we should make our best efforts to accelerate those rigid licensing processes, which are currently blocking construction especially in the territory of the capital city of Prague, and therefore lead to an increase in apartments and rentals. However, I have a few questions that I would like to ask to make sure that this preparation is being done properly. First of all, I want to ask you when the quick amendment to digitize the building process will be. Secondly, I would like to ask whether you agree in the proposal for recodification to make it possible for the municipality to declare transparent conditions on the basis of which the municipality will conclude planning contracts with developers. Thirdly, how you plan to protect public interests in the framework of the construction process. Fourthly, whether an independent Board of Appeal will decide on an appeal against the building authority's decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u148	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u149	Thank you for this interpelation. I'll start in that order, as you put it, even if we jump from one to the other, but I'll start by digitizing the building process. As far as rapid steps are concerned, this is adopted in Act 416 on speeding up transport construction. That, of course, is where I expect it to be presented to the government at any moment. We, of course, introduce many elements precisely within the scope of the recodification, but as far as the faster solution is concerned, it is digitally a technical map and a national geoportal. Maybe I could put it in context. Of course, we also work intensively with the MPs, and within the Chamber of Deputies, there is also a group to digitise under the direction of Mr Kupka and Mrs Kořanová, where we are, of course, really trying to take digitalisation in such a way as to simplify the processes and make it more efficient. There will be four separate data storages, as I have already said, data storage digital technical map, national geoportal spatial planning, data repository decisions, collaborating and expressing the authorities concerned and data repository project documentation including the possibility of saving in BIM format. To even get to the next questions, so if we're still protecting public interests. Protection of public interests will be fully maintained under the new regulation in the new construction law. The simplification of building authorisation will not be at the expense of protecting public interests or of protecting the rights of the entities concerned. There will be the integration of existing experts, who are now in the position of the authorities concerned, into the system of state construction offices. We are mainly concerned with the removal of unnecessary inefficient processes, which are preceded by management before the construction office. It will continue to be maintained that any conditions with regard to the public interest concerned will be included in the operative part of the decision. The reasons for the compliance of the decision with the public interest will be part of the reasons for the decision. In the case of the authorities concerned, which will not be integrated into the system of state building offices, a change in their output will be made to the form of an expression. Basically, the whole system really makes us want one permit, one stamp, one decision, so one possibility of appeal and one review. As far as the planning contracts are concerned, of course, the planning agreement, here I have to say, came from our negotiations when we talked about these matters. The proposal therefore envisages maintaining planning contracts and, rather, further strengthening its importance. The planning contract will be able to be concluded by the builder with the municipality or with the owner or manager of the public infrastructure and, where appropriate, with other parties to the proceedings. The terms and conditions of implementation of a project may be the subject of a planning contract, in particular in relation to public transport and technical infrastructure, civil equipment, public spaces or other facilities. There's a lot of debate going on, for example. assistance in the framework of housing construction. [[17.10 hours]] The conclusion of the planning contract will also make it possible in the zoning plan to make the building permit conditional upon the performance of the construction contract as a result of the construction plan. Furthermore, following the model of certain foreign legislation, the Act lays down a general rule that the performance agreed in the planning contract must be proportionate in relation to the circumstances and conditions of the specific intention. So much for your questions. And, of course, as far as the appeal is concerned, the scope for appeal and review will be preserved, but we will try to do just by one permit, by one stamp, to make the process so that the appeal proceedings will really be one and one review.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u150	Thank you. I suppose there's an interest in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u151	I thank the Minister for her reply and thank you for the willingness to discuss this outside the Chamber of Deputies in negotiations with the MPs. So I wanted to ask - for those planning contracts, I specifically wanted the self-government, such as the capital of Prague, which is, of course, most affected by rising housing prices, to be able to declare the program under which the terms of the contract would be concluded, so that it could be legally possible, captured and that the conditions were transparent and that all the builders or developers knew under which conditions they could change their territorial plan. And the second question. With the independence of the appeal body, my point was that what you're suggesting is that the regional offices and regional construction agencies have one boss and they're connected, and if I appeal, the official who will have the same supervisor will decide on the appeal. It's not gonna be like tonight upstairs where there's another constellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u152	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u153	As far as the Supreme Building Office is concerned, the hierarchy is the Supreme Building Office, then there are regional construction offices, then, of course, there are authorities in municipalities with extended scope. Of course, we assume that the building agenda is as close as possible to citizens as possible, that there will also be detachable workplaces in the places that are today. As far as appeal procedures are concerned, of course, every workplace has its own boss, and it will never be decided by the same boss as it is today at municipal offices, when the one person in the village actually has two round stamps, one for self-government and one for government; That's where it's always gonna be by that hierarchy upstairs. The highest building office has one huge advantage, that, of course, even in the context of the biggest problem of today's time, which is systemic bias, there is also the fact that, within one line, this will be prevented, and above all, it will also be the sharing of officials, not in the form of moving, but rather, if, of course, there are bigger structures to be dealt with, so more people will be able to do so in one line, which is out of the question today. As far as the planning contract is concerned, first, it will be given by law, and second, of course, you will put forward the conditions under which the planning contracts can be concluded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u154	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes from 17:00 to the end of the day for working reasons. The next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová with an interview with Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u155	Dear Minister, the last amendment to the VAT Act has been amended by the provisions on turnover and economic activity. According to my information, the Financial Administration began to interpret this change by selling municipal property, such as municipal land, if the price was higher than CZK 1 million, so the municipalities would automatically become VAT payers. In the case of municipalities, the sale of these land itself is not their usual and regular economic activity, but, on the contrary, they want to provide land for example to families for building houses in their municipality or to finance larger infrastructure. It is not a private business, it is an activity in the public interest, it is not a regular activity. Madam Secretary, I wanted to ask you whether it is really the way that the Financial Administration interprets the amended regulation, or this information, which is much discussed in the community environment, lacks a real basis and there is nothing to worry about. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u156	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u157	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, the situations in which any taxable person becomes a taxpayer are defined in Section 6 of the following VAT Act. I will now quote the taxable person residing in the country, with the exception of the person who only carries out transactions exempt from tax without the right to deduct, becomes a payer, inter alia, if they exceed - because there are other legal reasons, or voluntarily - if they exceed the so-called mandatory registration limit, that is, in the event that their turnover in the 12 immediately preceding calendar months exceeds CZK million. The VAT Act has become effective 1. 5. 2004, i.e. on the date of accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, and from this date it has set a limit for compulsory registration of CZK million. At that date, an individual permanent derogation was introduced for the Czech Republic concerning the so-called exemption from tax for small enterprises, negotiated for the Czech Republic in accession negotiations and subsequently through the Treaty of Accession of the Czech Republic and other countries to the European Union, as enshrined in Article 24a of the Sixth Directive and currently in Article 287 of the currently in force VAT Directive, which replaced the Sixth Directive. According to these provisions, the Czech Republic may grant exemptions to taxable persons whose annual turnover is equal to a maximum of EUR 35 000 in national currency at the rate applicable on the date of accession. Within the Member States of the European Union, the VAT registration limit, negotiated for the Czech Republic of EUR 35,000, was one of the highest. Thus, the Czech Republic cannot change the amount of this annual limit in the VAT Act on the basis of its own decision without the first amendment at the level of European law. It is therefore clear from the above that the limit for compulsory registration for VAT of CZK 1 million is respected by the Union documents setting the upper limit of turnover, to which it is possible to grant tax exemptions for small enterprises in the Czech Republic. This limit is and must be valid for all taxable persons without distinction, i.e. also for municipalities, if they are taxable persons. The definition of delivery, which is included in the registration limit, means the one-off sale of the property, which you asked, which the municipality used to perform or economic activity, does not enter into turnover. For the definition of assets whose provision or supply is included in the turnover defined in the VAT Act, the relevant provision of Section 4 (1) is therefore applicable. The VAT Act does not include a remuneration for the supply or supply of long-term assets, unless such performance is an integral part of the normal economic activity of the taxable person. So it would have to be her activity, which is not expected to be one-time, so it doesn't involve it. The purpose is to avoid distorting the size of turnover for example for the purposes of registration or cancellation of registration of VAT. According to the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, this is Case C98/07, it is necessary to distinguish between transactions which, for a particular taxable person, are of the nature of its normal activities, such as real estate agencies, but also municipalities, the sale of real estate, including land acquired, purchased, built for sale, including real estate before sale, temporarily leased from transactions which do not meet this characteristic, such as the sale of vehicles by the company in the context of the replacement of the fleet. In other words, it is important whether it results from any nature of its activity or not. Following the above examples, this means that the sale of the real estate intended for sale will be assessed differently on the one hand, calculated in turnover, and, on the other hand, the sale of the property which was not primarily intended for sale but served as an instrument for carrying out the taxable person's own economic activity, for example, there were exclusively office premises or offices. The second of those transactions shall not be included in turnover. I still dare to add examples from the activities of municipalities. Of course, in the case of municipalities and other public bodies, the sale of assets which served solely for the performance of the public administration does not enter into turnover either. In practice, it may mean that if the municipality sells a part of the municipal office, a forest that, for example, owned ten years or a field... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Well, I'll wait for the follow-up question, and I'll be happy to finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u158	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u159	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Since I haven't learned everything, I'll give you another chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u160	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u161	Thank you, Madame. Let me get this straight. Of course, in the case of municipalities and other public bodies, the sale of assets which served solely for the performance of the public administration does not enter into turnover either. So, in practice, this may mean that if the municipality sells a part of the municipal office, or a forest that, for example, has owned ten years, or the field on which the construction plots are to be based according to the zoning plan, these revenues are not included in the turnover. On the other hand, if the municipality changes the zoning plan from the field to the construction plots, for example, it sets up individual plots and systematically starts selling them to interested parties for the construction of family houses, the related revenues are likely to be included in the turnover. The Union of Towns and Municipalities sent a question to this issue, which was answered by the Deputy Minister's letter, when a unified opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the General Financial Directorate was presented, I have it at my disposal, I can provide it to you. [[He's pointing.]] Otherwise, I recommend, if the municipality does not know, that the normal activity of the General Financial Directorate is that it seeks to provide, although it is not the subject of the advisory activity, for this are tax advisors, but, as far as municipalities and public bodies are concerned, the General Financial Directorate simply answers these questions very often, which, of course, also happened in the case of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. So I can give you the answer that went away. It was signed by my deputy in charge of the tax and customs department. And, if necessary, the General Financial Directorate is ready to provide answers to any questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u162	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next in line is Mrs Veronika Vrecionová, who is not present, so her interpelation is failing. Mrs. Věra Kovářová with an interview with Minister Klára Dostálová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u163	Madam Secretary, last week on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, I held a seminar on the recodification of building law. The discussion showed many critical and fundamental comments on the current intention of the Ministry for Regional Development. One of them I would like to address in this interpellation, namely the abolition of the existing model of the connected public administration. The existing recodification should remove the performance of the construction offices to municipalities and introduce a centralized construction office with a detached workplace. Personally, I believe that we are trying to abolish a working model and replace some new one, although we do not know how and whether this system will work. At the same time, many of the difficulties of the current construction process can be reformed within the existing system. Madam Secretary, is such a rapid intervention really necessary in a functioning public administration model? Can't we reform and speed up the construction process in the current model? How do you view this return to the de facto district authorities? Does it not bother you that this step would dramatically limit the availability of building offices, especially in the countryside, in a situation where similar cuts are being made by the Financial Administration? Are we to understand that this government has already written back the country? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u164	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u165	Hello, Madam. I've said a lot here in the previous interpellation, so I'm sure you've noticed. So I'm just going to focus on the model of the Supreme Building Office. We really aim and have prepared this as a very comprehensive solution to building law in the Czech Republic. And when we looked at this from a comprehensive point of view, and of course everyone supports it to accelerate in the Czech Republic, then about two of the biggest problems we have in the Czech Republic are, of course, the number of institutions involved and the associated number of appeals and various stamps and so on before the investor even brings it to the construction office. And the second problem is the model, which means the combined model of government and self-government. In what we have identified the biggest problem, it is simply that when we go to the goal that we want one office, one procedure, one decision, one stamp, so basically there is no other way to solve this than to really clearly give all authority to one building office, which will actually cooperate with the builder, of course in the context of digitization. It's impossible to ignore. I'd just fix it. It's not the Supreme Building Office and the Detached Workplaces. It's a whole hierarchy of authorities. This means the Supreme Building Office, Regional Building Offices, Regional Building Offices, and precisely the possibility of the detachment workstations of the local building office to the level of 1s and 2nd municipalities so that we can get the building agenda as close as possible to the citizen. But the magic of this solution is that the phenomenon of the time is really prevented, that is, the so-called element of systemic bias. I must therefore say that we are actually very intensively communicating with the mayors. Whoever met the system's bias, so he wants me to enforce it as soon as possible tomorrow, because the system is set up so that if systemic bias is identified, the construction plan must be dealt with by another construction office and, of course, in large cities, it goes to small authorities, but unfortunately, the current system does not allow the sharing of officials. This means, if Hradec Králové has problems, it is solved by the office in Hořice, where there are two people. How many times, of course, the one-headed building offices - we have a large analysis to do this - there is a huge problem with representativeness. For example, the construction office in Nechanice closed down. They're just not human. And in this current model, it is not possible to share officials. It's just not like that. Another problem, of course, is that there is no uniform and methodological management of the building authorities' system. And we have a problem with the execution of the decision. You know, I've responded very carefully to this, that we've created a grant title. But the removal of buildings that threaten the life of the population or are black buildings, so it is, of course, the execution of the decisions of a particular community. She doesn't have the money, so there's no such thing, and she's gonna come over happily. The D.O.D.'s trying to go across the street from the grant title. But, of course, it's a matter of wondering if such a system should continue to work. Another reason that led us to do this is the vast fragmentation of the construction offices. We have twenty types of municipal construction offices, then we have special construction offices, military construction offices, other construction offices, and also fifty affected bodies. So, of course, we're integrating the state administration on the one hand, which means really the authorities concerned, just under the Supreme Building Office, or under the construction office, but at the same time, it really deserves to be separated from the municipal authority. And I know, of course, that this is a big problem with the Union of Towns and Villages. Of course, I'm very keen on the comments. On the other hand, I have had an overview of the activities of municipalities in the combined model drawn up, and I must say that of the eleven that municipalities have, it is only one agenda. All you've got here is an overview of what's going on... And the construction process is just this little indent. [[He's showing the paper.]] Of course, spatial planning will remain fully within the competence of the municipalities. It's not even possible for the municipalities to be told where to stand. Of course, we only have to digitally set the conditions so that any investor, any citizen, can get the information through the national geoportal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u166	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u167	Thank you for your answer. I think there are moments when we disagree. But, of course, the many moments and arguments that have been raised here can be seen as justified. And following, for example, an analysis of the Ministry of the Interior, whether you consulted this proposal, because it says that it has done an analysis of the activities of the construction authorities, that it also proposes measures that would lead to acceleration, but without removing them from the connected model, which, of course, is also worth considering. Of course, as you mentioned, organizations, mayors, communities are rebelling. And I have one such speech for you here: The Association of Local Government of the Czech Republic has launched a petition that is currently directed against the exclusion of building offices from the jurisdiction of municipalities. So, in case you change your mind, because the law isn't written, here's a petition you can sign. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u168	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u169	Thank you. Of course, Mr. Polčák of the Association of Local Authorities and I are in close contact. I just have to say here that, of course, we, Minister Hamáček, will still have a very intensive debate on these matters. On the other hand, what the Ministry of the Interior is proposing is the abolition of building offices in 1s and 2s and leaving only 205 municipalities with extended scope. It really is, and we don't really want to go that way, so we really see it in that context, like I said here. There is a need to prevent systemic bias, because it is indeed a phenomenon of time, and I have been very intensively debating this with the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, and with officials. [[Nesroz.]] This is not possible in the current model, but I really want to keep the construction agenda as close as possible to the citizens, whether in the form of a detached workplace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u170	Thank you. Another interview is again Mrs Věra Kovářová and again to Minister Klára Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u171	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I'll cut to the chase. My question is this. How is the State Agricultural Intervention Fund preparing for the situation of possible confirmation of the conflict of interests of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš by the European Commission? In other words, the European Commission would confirm the Prime Minister's conflict of interest and demand financial correction - so how is the agricultural fund prepared for this? Does the State Agricultural Intervention Fund create any reserves in this case? And are they preparing any claims that may be suspended? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u172	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u173	First of all, I am not in the position of managing body of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. This is Minister Toman, so I'm sure it would be a good idea to refer these questions to him. I'll take it generally to the conflict of interest. Firstly, neither the final decision of the European Commission nor OLAF on possible conflicts of interest is known. On the basis of the request made by the European Commission in December 2018, no payment requests from the Ministry of Finance are submitted to the European Commission containing expenditure on beneficiaries' projects for which the link with Agrofert would be traceable, that is to say, where the whole issue of conflict of interest is headed. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance suspended the reimbursement of the expenditure concerned, for which the link with Agrofert was traceable, from EU funds to state budget chapters. This is a precautionary measure, with possible further steps - it will always depend on the outcome of the ongoing audit of the European Commission and the decision to pay individual subsidies to specific beneficiaries of the Agrofert Group and their suspension is the responsibility of the subsidy providers, who must duly justify the suspension of payments in a specific case. No further details can be communicated at this time, because we do not have any results of the audits or the findings of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u174	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? I see you do. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u175	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I'd probably just have a rhetorical question, but if you answer it, I'd be happy to. In case the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister is confirmed, then who will, in quotation marks, take it away and therefore whether it will be a taxpayer or an official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u176	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u177	Thank you. But this cannot be considered a rhetorical question. I must say that for the Czech Republic, we, in terms of conflicts of interest, do not agree with this. We have written a lot of messages to the European Commission on this, of course, we have a lot of things prepared, whether it is the National Coordination Authority, because, as the imaginary article is written, that is, from that regulation of August 2, there is that it must participate directly. And indeed, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic does not participate directly in any way. We have the Council for European Funds, where, of course, the Prime Minister chaired, but the Council advises, the government decides. That means, of course, it's a collective body, and it's certainly not on the will of one single person. So we are really going to have a dispute about this with the European Commission, because I, too, am actually convinced that there is no conflict of interest at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u178	Thank you. Another interview - Mrs Věra Kovářová to Minister Vladimír Kremlík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u179	Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interview about the brands that draw attention to driving in the opposite direction on the motorways. The Ministry of Transport promised last year to install these brands, but for a long time nothing happened. The first brands only started to appear two months ago, but only in four places. According to the police, there are 130 such risky places on the Czech motorways. And the drivers driving in the opposite direction do not dwindle. Every day, it's done on average by one driver. Dear Minister, I have read that you have requested an explanation of the current pitiful state. So what is the explanation, and what was the answer you received? And above all, by what date will we see the security of all 130 risk sections? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u180	Thank you. It will be answered in writing. We can proceed to another interpelation, and it is the interpelation again by Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will arrive at the end of today's interpelation, and it is up to Minister Marie Benešová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u181	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in recent years the position of consumers in consumer relations has been significantly strengthened, particularly in the negotiation of a service or purchase of goods by distance, outside the businessman's establishment or by door-to-door sale. Of course, these steps are acknowledged. However, in recent years, the so-called scumbags have begun to focus on communities that are not formally consumers, and they often flock to them like a flock of vultures. They began to offer them services that often appear to be beneficial for municipalities, such as publishing information about municipalities in different catalogues, or offering other services. They do all of this in a very thoughtful way. You must have some idea how these talks are going. In a few months' time, the self-government will receive an invoice for these dubious services and it is not enough to be surprised. It might be trivial if it didn't happen on a large scale. According to lawyers, it is very difficult to fight these fraudsters, whether by catalogue or otherwise, even because the rule of law does not provide sufficient support for self-government in the case of these non-consumer relations. I find it unfortunate. The law shouldn't be on the side of crooks, but it should protect them from them. Are you planning any changes in this area to protect the communities from fraud? Or, in your opinion, is the legislation sufficient, and is it just that the authorities learn to use it in their favour, as has been done by catalogue and other crooks so far? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u182	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this question that has been raised to me is basically a total of three areas, and this is the Ministry of Justice, to which I therefore declare and say more, then it concerns the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Industry. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I can only refer there to the government's legislative work plan for this year, where we have the Civil Code, which is currently already in the Working Commissions, and this concerns, in particular, the regulation of contracts concluded with consumers and late payments in commercial transactions, which we bring into line with the requirements of EU law. And it's basically about the contracts, as you mentioned by those scumbags, the demand for a text confirmation of a consumer contract made orally over the phone. So this kind of contract won't be possible anymore. This is, therefore, an initiative on our part, which we have incorporated in the new amendment under the Civil Code. [[17.40 hours]] As far as other areas are concerned, it would probably be good to raise a question to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Industry and Trade, as this concerns - as far as the Ministry of Industry is concerned, essentially energy consumption, energy collection, and as far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, so there is a law on municipalities that contains rules on property management. And here, too, elected authorities of self-government should guarantee to a sufficient extent a certain standard of diligence and discretion in the conclusion of contracts for the municipality. So these two questions are hard to answer. Well, that's probably on another interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u184	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? It's not. So we will proceed to another interview, which is once again Mrs Věra Kovářová to Minister Vladimír Kremlík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u185	Dear Minister, the Ministry of Transport has several years of delays in building high-speed scales on motorways to prevent road damage by overloaded trucks. It's coming from the Supreme Audit Office's background check. In 2015, the Government committed itself to the Action Plan for the Development of Intelligent Transport Systems, inter alia, to the construction of these scales. According to the plan, they should have started working in 2016 and 2017. By the end of 2018, however, the ŘSD on the roads it manages did not operate any. E.g. five of them already worked on the circuit roads last year. Dear Minister, I would like to ask the reasons for failing to meet the objective of introducing high-speed scales, which the government and, in turn, the Ministry of Transport have set out what measures you will take to put these weights into operation as soon as possible. Will responsibility be given to officials who delay their implementation? After all, this is causing unnecessary damage to our communications, and their repairs are not really free. Please pay due attention to this problem. I pre-advise that this is a matter in which, given its importance, I will interpel you on an ongoing basis. Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u186	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And the last interview is Mrs Věra Kovářová to Minister Miroslav Toman. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u187	Minister, I would like to ask how the State Agricultural Intervention Fund is preparing for a possible statement and confirmation of the conflict of interest of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš by the European Union. If the European Commission confirms the Prime Minister's conflict of interest and calls for financial correction, how and whether the agricultural fund is prepared for this at all. Dear Minister, does the State Agricultural Intervention Fund create any reserves in this case? Are any claims that may be suspended prepared? And in the event of a negative answer, who will then take the Prime Minister's possible conflict of interest so-called "pay" or pay? Are you and the Department of Agriculture gonna pay for this? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-09-ps2017-028-07-007-218.u188	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am now of the opinion that we have ended the discussion of oral interventions for today's meeting day. I'm finishing today's meeting day and we'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m., points from the third reading block. Have a good evening. Goodbye.
