ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-029-119.u1	119. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement on a Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 24 November 2017 (the House Press 108/ - first reading) Antonín Staněk, Minister of Culture, will present the proposal. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-029-119.u2	Thanks for the word, too, one more time. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to introduce you to the Agreement on a comprehensive and enhanced partnership between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. This agreement, agreed by the Government with its resolution No 798 of 6 November 2017, was signed in Brussels on 24 November 2017 at the edge of the 5th Eastern Partnership Summit. The Agreement takes into account the development of relations between the European Union and Armenia since the late 1990s, the development of EU policy towards the Eastern European region, including the Eastern Partnership project and the revised European Neighbourhood Policy, as well as Armenia's international commitments arising from membership of other groups, especially in the Euro-Asian Economic Union. It will replace the existing, more closely targeted Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which entered into force on 1 July 1999. However, it does not go so far as to establish an association between the European Union and Armenia. The Agreement improves cooperation between the European Union and Armenia in a number of areas while intensifying political dialogue. It contains provisions on the rule of law, the fight against terrorism, the fight against organised crime and corruption. It includes a comprehensive section on trade, including commitments to improve the conditions for trade between the European Union and Armenia. From the point of view of regional security, it is important that the agreement reaffirms the commitment of the European Union to support the efforts and actions of the co-chairs of the OSCE Group for a peaceful settlement of the conflict in Nahorní Karabach on the basis of standards and principles of international law, in particular the non-use of force or threat by force, equal rights and self-determination of nations and territorial integrity. The Southkavkavkaz region is one of the foreign policy priorities of the Czech Republic and it is in our interest to strengthen relations with the countries of the region. In addition to the enhanced agreement negotiated with Armenia, the relations between the EU and the other two countries of the region are regulated by the Association Agreement with Georgia of 2014 and negotiations are currently under way for a new, enhanced Agreement between the European Union and Azerbaijan. In terms of the economic interests of the Czech Republic, chapters concerning public procurement, sanitary and phytosanitary measures and services are important. The agreement also contains provisions on cooperation in a number of interesting sectors for the Czech Republic, e.g. in transport, energy, agriculture or the environment. Czech companies show interest in the Armenian market, therefore the Czech Republic has an interest in cultivating the business environment, transparency, eliminating non-tariff barriers to trade and promoting common values and democratic establishment of Armenia. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my speech, I would like to ask you to give my consent to the ratification of the agreement on a comprehensive and enhanced partnership between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-029-119.u3	Thank you and please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Karel Krejza. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-029-119.u4	Mr Vice-President, Dear House, first of all, allow me to thank Minister Staňek for filling in for Mr Petříček's absent foreign minister and thus enabling him to discuss this treaty on the one hand, but also all other contracts without preparation. It wasn't easy for him, so I thank him again. As far as Armenia is concerned, Armenia is a small country in a complex region surrounded by Georgia, Turkey. The dispute over the Upper Karabakh is known and it is a country that has a long, long Christian tradition, and I think it deserves and needs this treaty. The petitioner had a rather exhausting report, so let me just remind you that this is a mixed and presidential agreement. It'll help trade. So far, the trade is not very big, about 300 million crowns in 2016. Let us hope that it will help mutual relations and trade. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask that it be allocated to the Foreign Committee as a guarantee committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-029-119.u5	I'm gonna read an apology here. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková also apologizes from 16.45 hours to the end of the day for working reasons. So I am now opening up a general debate. Mr. Marek Benda. Please. So far, only one logged in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-029-119.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I promise you, today will be the last time. I only speak as chairman of a group of friends Czech Republic - Armenia, with the fact that I would very much like to support the proposal. The contract was sent here 20. 2. 2018. Almost a clean year lies in the Chamber of Deputies and unfortunately never got to it. We were almost in a situation today thanks to the absence of Minister Petříček, and I think Armenia deserves it. Since it was submitted here, when the reports were written, there has been a change of at least ratios, if I do not say to the regime, very often called the Velvet Revolution following the model of the Czech Republic. I think we should try to speed up its adoption and discussion as much as possible, because Armenia is the state we are interested in and we are interested in good relations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-029-119.u7	Thank you. So now I am no longer registering another application for the general debate. I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister and Mr Krejza if you are interested in final words. You don't. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion. I don't register any other proposal. We will take the vote. I'm gonna sing. I will ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 259, registered 173, for 139, versus 0. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. This concludes the discussion of this press for this moment. The next press we have on the agenda is
