ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-005-120.u1	120. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the Czech Republic's approach to the Inter-American Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (Nassau, 23 May 1992) and the Optional Protocol to the Inter-American Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (Managua, 11 June 1993) /German press 121/ - First reading Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek is at the rapporteur's table, Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková too, so we can start the item. I'll ask for the floor of the Minister of Justice, Jan Kněžínek. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-005-120.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I propose to you the Government's proposal to ratify the Inter-American Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Optional Protocol which was subsequently concluded on this Convention. By becoming a Contracting Party to this Inter-American Convention, which is otherwise open for signature and ratification by non-American states, the Czech Republic will thus acquire an instrument for international cooperation in criminal matters with a number of US states with which it does not have such an international treaty today. These are primarily Latin American states and Caribbean countries, and I can give examples of Mexico, Colombia, Brazil, etc., but there are a number of them, a total of 28 states, with only three of which we have signed a treaty today, namely the USA, Canada and Kazakhstan, which is also the only non-American state that has acceded to the Convention so far. By becoming part of the Czech rule of law, this convention will, above all, simplify much cooperation between law enforcement authorities, whatever form it is, i.e. in the form of requests, service of documents, etc. The Government has given its consent to the accession of the Czech Republic to this Convention and the Optional Protocol on 23 October 2017, the approval of ratification has already been granted to the Senate, and I am very much asking that the Chamber of Deputies also agree to ratify this Convention, including the Optional Protocol on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-005-120.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková to present the report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-005-120.u4	Have a nice day, dear colleagues and colleagues. As has already been said, the Inter-American Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters consists in the possibility of applying for action in criminal proceedings in the territory of another State. The Czech Republic will become the first European State to use the possibility of accessing the Convention under Article 34. This will replace the bilateral agreements that we have with the individual states of North and South America. In particular, the individual articles provide for a request for legal assistance, processing, processing, delivery of judicial decisions and judgments and attendance of witnesses and experts, transmission of information and records. The costs associated with the implementation of the Convention and the Protocol will be covered by the budget chapter of the Ministry of Justice and do not require any increase in the claims against the State budget compared to the current costs. It is in accordance with constitutional order, especially constitutional law number 1 and 2, as well as other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic. I propose ordering the House press 121 to discuss the foreign committee as a committee of guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-005-120.u5	I thank the rapporteur for her report and open a general debate for which I have no application. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. If no one reports, we can end the debate and decide on the commandment according to the decision of the Organising Committee, which was repeated by the rapporteur. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will take the vote. We will decide in the vote number 215, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the foreign committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 215, from 179 in favour of 109, against 1 Member. We can therefore conclude that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you to the Minister of Justice, thank you to the rapporteur and end with item 120. [[11.10 hours]] Let me say that the First Deputy Prime Minister has delivered a decision on the representation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other absent ministers for today's discussion of contracts at first reading, the appointed minister will be Minister Staněk, Minister of Culture. We can therefore do the individual things on which ministers who are excused, Minister Maláčová, Minister Petříček, Minister Plaga, Minister Toman, who are therefore excused from today's meeting, will be replaced by Minister of Culture. For the first time, I will use this mandate to discuss the point
