ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u1	2. Bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the law on the processing of personal data /German press 139/13/ - returned to the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments, we have the resolution as House Press 139/14, and we have information on the amendments in our mail. The Senate will once again represent Senator Anna Hubáčková, and I am now asking that Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u2	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, however we have agreed to the meeting within eight hours, I do not want to delay. I believe that we have had a lot to discuss in the previous point, however the debate has not been merged, so I merely refer to my speech at the last point and in order to maintain access to information, information order and so on and so on, I would ask you to approve this press as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, that is, as the Senate has been forwarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u3	I thank the Minister and I ask that Senator Anna Hubáčková take the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have given the floor to Senator Hubáčková. I'm asking for peace so she can introduce us to the Senate's position. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u4	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you all so much for supporting the previous point. You have a challenging program, so I will also be very brief. In the Senate press 139, we have proposed, and again I ask you to support these amendments, to remove from the proposed bill everything that has nothing to do with the transposition of the European directive. It is not only about the information system, which, of course, the administrative system knows, the authorities can use. It is about the fact that this whole part, Title XV, relating to the Act on the provision of information - is legally clean and far more appropriate to be addressed by a separate standard, which is Act No 106. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u5	I thank the Senator, and now the rapporteurs of the various committees will gradually comment on the amendments tabled if they are interested. The rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Marek Benda, is he interested in expressing himself? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u6	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, things are going so fast here. It's okay, we're all agreed that the House version will be approved. The Senate is returning the accompanying law on the processing of personal data, related regulations, with two major changes. Both essentially arose exclusively on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and in this regard the Senate is to some extent right, of course, that it is a sort of standardization here, and I am very careful to discuss the stickers, because I consider this discussion to be completely pointless. The Chamber of Deputies can approve what it wants. But, of course, there is something else that is presented by the government and that is subsequently obtained only from the adjustments that have been made on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. This concerns specifically those health parts which, as you know, were first the proposal of Mr Běhounek, who approved the Health Committee, and then this proposal was modified by three other proposals, namely Professor Vyzula, Mr Karhan and mine, which brought him back to a completely different dimension. I think it would really be most appropriate for us to make changes in health care and health funding and to share information in health through normal government proposals and not by kind of sticking around here during the Chamber of Deputies negotiations. However, the part that I consider much more fundamental is the amendment of the Free Access Act to Information, the so-called famous hundred and six. Although the Minister said that the government already has a 100-six novel prepared, but, frankly, we heard that two years ago that it was ready, we heard that five years ago some of us who remember it, and never did the government bring any novels of the hundred-six when its problems were resolved, because, of course, it causes a certain type of struggle with all those enthusiastic publishers, especially from the public sector, from the non-profit sector, who simply destroys and annoys public life in some parts. [[17.30 hours]] I think a hundred and six needs to be changed in a fundamental way. I have already drawn attention here to the issue of disclosure from criminal proceedings, particularly in the area of binding and that the decision on detention is considered final and is therefore published. I am afraid that this problem, despite the fact that it has been resolved in the government proposal, has not been resolved in the future, and as the Ministry of the Interior has subsequently reached a consensus proposal with some pirate Members, it is not resolved that basically only the current text has been repeated. In the same way, I think that it is absolutely necessary, and we come across this at all levels, to adjust precisely the obligation to share information for individual public entities, so that their activities are not completely blocked through this obligation. You'll be told by the presidents of the courts that they have one to three workers who do nothing but respond to a hundred and six. There are municipalities that are already completely overwhelmed. And this may simply be one citizen who makes up completely pointless questions, claiming that these are questions based on the law on free access to information. Today there is no way to refuse to deal with whether it flew over UFOs or did not fly over UFOs. If you could see what is sometimes responsible for this House, what is going on here, when several people are sitting here in some department of citizens' complaints and writing a desperate story. I had the opportunity to read one: why is the constitutional committee not discussing that we are in a different European Union than the one we joined? Now answer it! Answer me, you're writing two pages of completely meaningless lyrics. I think that it is necessary to open up the 100 in a fundamental way, not only the government's problems that the government has tried to solve there, but I think that then the changes that have been proposed - the question is whether they really contain all this, and it is not possible to say only: we will incorporate an information order to facilitate the acquisition of information, and at the same time we will not include some protection of public authorities from the obvious bullying that occurs in a number of cases. And here I'm sorry that unfortunately, we've only gone on the path of partial solutions. I think that what the Senate has chosen, which said "don't touch the hundred sixths, do not touch the health laws that are not directly related to it" would be a more appropriate solution to bring a government amendment, whether sharing information in the health sector or a government amendment to the law on free access to information, and to consult it in some way. So I'm leaning to approve the Senate version, not the MP, because I think the MP version will cause more complications than they can solve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u7	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteurs of other committees whether they wish to speak. Mr Luzar, rapporteur for the Committee on Petitions? No. Rapporteur to the Health Committee, Mr Běhounek? Not either. The rapporteur for the Economic Committee, Mr Jiří Bláha - does not wish to speak either. And the rapporteur of the electoral committee, Mr Tomáš Martínek, wishes to address the Senate's amendments? He doesn't. Mr Martin Kupka, rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development - he also does not wish to speak. Thank you. We have thus come to terms with the opinions of the rapporteurs of the various committees and I am opening up a debate. President Michálek cannot make a statement of fact, but he may sign up for a debate with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u8	Thank you, but only a brief response to President Benda. If we allow the Office for Personal Data Protection to exercise competence in the area of the right to information, we will finally have one office where it will run under the same roof methodically. It can and should set up a practice of dealing with cases of misuse of the right to information. I quite agree with what you said, that there are pathological cases of people with mental disorders, mostly some injustice has happened to them, and they treat it through the abuse of some institutes, by filing some applications and so on. Sometimes it is even abused to the fact that one opposition part completely overwhelms another part, especially in a small community. But that's what's really happening. Cases of misuse of the right to information will be dealt with in that government amendment. However, there was an agreement that the information order would be implemented. I think that's right. Personally, I think that's right. For the past ten or ten or fifteen years, he's been telling me the truth that this institute never fell out of the commentary proceedings. So it's a good thing the Chamber of Deputies took over. There was a need to cut into it. I think that this will lead to greater transparency in the state administration and that we will finally deal with the age-old objections that there are obstructions from some authorities, which, in turn, abuse their supreme authority, and create infinite circles, cost the public administration huge money, because the officials are processing the same thing and the same thing into a circle. I saw it at one office, I'm not gonna say where the same decision was produced 20 times in a row, and there was no way to get out of it. So in this respect, I think the introduction of an information order is a step in the right direction. But I don't want to get into this right now, I think we discussed this in detail at the previous point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u9	Thank you. Mr Benda will take a real note. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u10	Mr Vice-President, only a really short response to what has now been said. It is not entirely true that there has been a consensus that an information order is to be incorporated into the Personal Data Processing Act. I don't think that's the consensus. The Ministry of the Interior quite clearly said yes, we are ready, and we have said so on the board of the Constitutional Legal Committee almost all of us, we are ready to establish an information order. We are even prepared to put it on the Office for Personal Data Protection, because it is reasonable that where the right to information and its protection is assessed, it should also be assessed how it will be issued. But the committees did not recommend it at the same time. There was a rather special vote in the House in which the majority was obtained. I'm not questioning her, she was. But it was no complete consensus of this House, and as far as I know, there was a meeting earlier that said: we will deal with it, but we will not discuss it until the following points. And then, of course, there is one big problem, that when we approved this bill, virtually. when the proposals were applied at all, so it was assumed, a relatively long period will be created for the Ministry of the Interior to come up with an amendment to the Act on the Right to Information, but probably the Data Protection Act, and to make adjustments to the information system... the information order put into life. At the moment, we are in a situation where the efficiency is designed to be 1. 1. 2020 which is less than 10 months away, and it is quite obvious that no real-time changes in information commands can be made until then. So I don't think I'm the happiest, and I think that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u11	Mr. Ambassador, time. Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? I don't... This is Mrs Kovářová reporting with a factual remark which I have overlooked. Please, you have the floor. [[The Member shall report with an application for a debate.]] Yes, you can sign in properly. Please, you have the floor properly for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u12	The esteemed colleagues, esteemed colleagues, the Mayors' Club and the independents will support the House's version and thus preserve the information order. It has been said here from the mouth of President Michálek, through Mr President, that sometimes there is actually bullying by the municipalities, by people who are either deranged or are using this to fight politically. There are, however, cases where some citizens also use it to enrich themselves. Mr Míka's case, which asked for information throughout the Republic, attacked these applications and subsequently sued for financial compensation because he was not satisfied with how the municipalities respond. Mr Míka has publicly promised, on the basis of a court order, that he will no longer behave like this. And it's not an isolated order. I mean, let's leave the information order and thus protect the applicant for information. But at the same time, I will firmly believe, hope and ask the Ministry of the Interior to protect not only the applicants, but also the information providers who are being bullied in a number of cases. It is the smaller municipalities that are overwhelmed by requests for information, and a number of officials are blocked precisely to fulfil the obligation to provide information. So I hope that, within the forthcoming amendment to Act 106, rights will be protected not only by applicants but also by information providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u13	Thank you. Minister Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u14	Thank you. Very briefly in response to both Mr Benda and Mrs Kovářová. To Mr Benda. I understand he has some historical experience, but I'm going to repeat that we have the law ready, and if nothing unexpected happens, he'll go to the government in March. To both of you, through the President. We expect that the law will contain provisions that will protect compulsory bodies from bullying requests for information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u15	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? I'm not reporting, I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? Not interested. Is the senator interested? Yes, please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u16	Thank you for all the opinions that have been expressed. It is precisely the view that both the applicant's problems and the provider's problems should be addressed at the same level that was the reason why we referred to it in order to deal with it in the context of Act 106, not Act 101. I'd like to contact you again with a request to support the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-002-002.u17	Thank you. Before we proceed to the vote, there are two apologies. Mr Jan Farský apologizes from today's meeting from 18:00 to the end of the day. For health reasons from 18 to 20 hours today, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will introduce you to the motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Personal Data Processing Act, pursuant to House press 139/13, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 139/14." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 213, 185 Members signed up, for 26, against 38. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. We've already set the deal properly. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves a bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Processing of Personal Data, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to House Press 139/13'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 214 registered 186 Members, for 147, against 10. I state that we have adopted the bill. I'm done discussing this point. I thank the Senator and Vice-President of the Government. I'm opening another point.
