ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u1	54. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to the intersecting Members and the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intervention on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersions on the members of the Government will follow. Before I give the floor to the first Member drawn in order, Mr Jakub Michálek, I will read the apology received. Mr Jan Volný apologizes for the meeting between 14.30 and 18.00 for reasons of work. Mr Karel Rais apologizes today between 16.00 and 18.00 for reasons of work. Mr František Petrtýl apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Miloslav Rozner apologizes today from 14:30 to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day and tomorrow, on 12. 7. for the whole day for medical reasons. Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek apologizes today between 15.30 and 18.00 for reasons of work. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Jakub Michálek, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš. Mr. Vojtěch Pikal will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u2	Dear absent Prime Minister, you have not yet arrived at oral questioning. Well, I want to ask about your promise to citizens when you promised to fight corruption. In particular, you have written in the programming declaration that you will submit effective legal instruments to protect corruption notifiers and the lobbying regulation law based on international recommendations. People, of course, hate it. According to the survey, corruption and economic crime are the most irritating of people. We ask why Mr. Pitr, the tax fraud, maybe, goes to the Chamber of Deputies. Who do they come here to consult? That's why we don't have a lobbying bill, so we don't know. We don't have the notifiers' protection. You promised you'd have it ready in 2018, it's in the legislative plan, and there's nothing. In March 2018, you said that we have a lot of things here, of course, already in the past, I proposed whistleblowing, it did not pass, lobbying regulation, it was the intention of the government, it is prepared by Mr Pelikán. Then Mr. Kněžínek said that he was preparing it, again there is nothing, and in June 2019 Mrs. Benešová said that, of course, we are also working there on the proposal for a law on lobbying, the bill on the protection of notifiers. So you've been sitting here for two years, you've had the Justice Department for five years, and there's nothing. You haven't filed a law, you're working on it, but it hasn't gotten any results, nor has it made it to the Chamber of Deputies. So you're feeding us nonsense like a water-nine chicken in your race. I really don't like this. People consider corruption and economic crime a serious problem. Every fifth case of economic crime has been revealed by the notifiers, so it's logical that we have a legal environment here. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And unfortunately, in two years' time, contrary to the legislative plan, you have not submitted it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u3	Thank you. Since the Prime Minister is not present, he will be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. The next in line is Mr. and Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u4	Thank you. Dear Government, I am referring to you on the ongoing suspicions of corruption by the President of the Office of Competition Protection . Petr Rafaj. This is mainly the case of the Brno Centre, in which Jiří Švachula's already closely prosecuted politician was a member of the Office's decay committee at the decisive time of his public procurement crime. It was appointed by the will of President Rafah, although he has no professional education. The police in this case seized cash from the president hiding in pockets and in a wardrobe worth CZK 2 million. In addition, President Rafaj appointed Petra's own daughter or son-in-law Petr Kubín to the office's decomp committee. Another case of the President of the Office is the case of BusLine, when the President flew to the Netherlands for football registration with the criminally prosecuted Miroslav Pelta and former head of BusLine Jiří Vařil. In doing so, the office repeatedly stood up for Busline. In the Liberec Region, the office cancelled or decided so late that such a procedure was always recorded by the company. Some regions today require a review of the tender that the office has stopped. The complaint against the State Attorney General has already been lodged by the Liberec Region. I believe that on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, I no longer need to remind the well-known case of Kapsch, in which the President of Rafaj called off his Vice-President, doktor Josef Chýle, who defended the Ministry's tender. In addition to the above scandals, the last annual report also shows the management failure of President Rafaj. Although the budget of his office was doubled in 2012, there has been a gradual reduction in his supervisory activities to half in recent years. For 2018, the Office issued the record lowest number of administrative decisions, 507. At the number of officials 71 in the public procurement section, there are now half a case per month for one reporter. This is definitely not the effective activity of the state authority. For all the above reasons, I therefore believe that the position of President of Petr Rafaj's office remains unsustainable. I therefore ask what steps the Government of the Czech Republic will take to protect the independence and impartiality of the anti-monopoly office of which it is the President and whether it will propose its appeal to the President of the Republic. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u5	So I was wondering if you could make it in two minutes, it was five seconds too much. So also - in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days a reply will be sent. Mr Tomáš Martínek is next in line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u6	Thank you. Dear absent Prime Minister, I'm interrogating you on the construction of the Česká Lípa bypass. The bypass has been discussed since the 1990s, construction started in 2008 and was due to be completed in 2016. In 2010, however, the project was stopped for economic reasons by the then Minister of Transport Vít Bárta. Both you and the Minister of Transport Ťok signed a petition during the visit to the Liberec Region in March 2018 for the acceleration of the preparation of the construction of the Česká Lípa bypass. At the same time, the Minister of Transport stated that the construction would be exempted, which should accelerate the preparation and ensure funding. You were talking about extending the parliamentary bill to speed up the construction of designated transport structures, precisely this bypass. However, this did not happen. During the second visit of the Liberec Region to Minister Ťok in September 2018, the Minister stated that the sober estimate of the planned start date for the first phase of the construction is 2020. In government material presented by the Ministry of Transport as at 11. 9. 2018 entitled "Summary of construction preparation with planned start 2016 to 2018 and construction costs above CZK 300 million" was given for the project "I/9 Dubice-Dolní Libchava, " the deadline for submitting the application for building permit was September 2019. [[Song-II/262]] [[originally I/9 Dubice-Dolní Libchava bypass]] In the new material of the government presented by the Ministry of Transport to 23. 3. 2019 entitled "Summary of construction preparation with planned start in the next years and construction costs above CZK 300 million" for the project bypass Česká Lípa stated the deadline for submitting a request for building permit December 2019. According to the above, the assumption of realization from 2019 to 2020 is thus shifted. On your election visit to the Liberec Region in Nový Bor, you considered this construction a priority of the government. But now, on the contrary, it seems that the realization is delayed. When will the implementation of the project begin? Will it start in 2019 or 2020? How goes the purchase of land, and what is the real risk that the bypass construction will be postponed again? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u7	It will also be answered in writing. Next in line is Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Mr Stanislav Blaha will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u8	Dear Prime Minister, I wonder when was the last time you visited the village of Olbramovice and tried to cross the road here. Did you know that a village where kids have to cross the road on their way to school runs 30,000 cars a day? I suppose, given that you go there very often, I'm sure you're going to the stork's nest, we'll have a hunch, at least. Olbramovice has been waiting for a road bypass for many years. Now, however, it seems that they will not be able to see it for many years. The Department of Transport canceled the building permit last week. An objection to the construction of the bypass was submitted by the owner of the Cape Nest, IMOBA, which belongs by chance to the trust fund you controlled. You're being prosecuted because of čapí's nest. He said it was because the noise from the bypass might bother the guests of the Tea čapí. I wonder whether it is right for the inhabitants of Olbramovice to continue to endure a disproportionate transport burden for years while the guests of the resort of Čapího nest will have peace of recreation. The extremely striking chapter is then the sale of land under the planned bypass. Local people received CZK 60 per square metre for their land, Agrofert sold its land only after the purchase price was increased, of course by your Ministry, the Ministry of Transport, and the companies in your controlled trust fund gained about eight times more money than the citizens of Olbram. A total of 3.7 million. Therefore, I ask you: How should the residents of Olbramovice tell themselves that the Ministry you controlled is delaying the construction of the so much expected bypass that companies from your trust fund object to? And how are citizens not only from Olbramovic, but all to interpret that companies from Agrofert holding land from your controlled ministry collect eight times more money than ordinary citizens? On this, Prime Minister, there is a conflict of interest to be learned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u9	Well, thank you. Once again, it will be answered in writing to this interpelation. Mr Stanislav Blaha will be given the floor and Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u10	Dear Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you about one of your election vows. This is a promise you gave us before the last House elections right in Uherské Hradiště and together with other Hradištěk almost daily. Yes, it's a reconstruction of a former communist prison that is decaying in the middle of our city. In 2016, you said in front of the elections in the former prison building: I'll get the money. I'm a man who doesn't bullshit, and Minister Herman and I will do our best to make sure it's not just a promise again. So what's it like after the election? Even though we signed the memorandum and prepared the prerequisites for reconstruction, nothing is happening. The only other reminder of the association of YES and the prison was the slogan of the ANO movement in Hradiště before last year's municipal elections: For you, for the Castle. At the same time, the relevant documents have been available at the Ministry of Finance since at least October last year. I would therefore like to ask whether you still intend to allocate money for the correction of the prison and whether it will be soon. It's quite possible that the prison in Hradiště will fall on our heads before you go to the fullest extent you promised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u11	Thank you. It will be answered in writing for this interpelation. Mr Martin Kupka and Mr Vít Rakušan are withdrawing their interventions due to the absence of the Prime Minister, so Mrs Olga Richterová will be given the floor and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u12	Thank you for the floor. In this interview, I refer to the Prime Minister on the issue of China and our government policy towards China. I am turning to you, Prime Minister, because it is a major country where there is a massive violation of human rights. Our Senate did it in March of this year. I quote from the resolution that calls on our government to take a clear action. It therefore calls on your government, Prime Minister, to deal with China in terms of halting the persecution of China's citizens on the basis of their faith or ethnicity. And he also calls for the release of those who are imprisoned on the basis of their political conviction and belief or ethnicity, from prison and from the so-called. Reeducational labour camps. In other words, there are, say, concentration camps in the People's Republic of China. And then there's the thing that's making this interpelation highly up to date. There is a violent withdrawal of the organs of the prisoners' conscience. On Monday 17 June this year, the final judgment of the London Court of Justice, chaired by a judge who had previously brought an action against former Yugoslav President Slobodan Miloševič in the framework of the International Court of Justice, was clearly stated that the members of the tribunal are confident that there is forced removal of the authorities of prisoners of conscience in China, after a significant period of time. It's a long-term affair with a significant number of victims. This matter also concerns the pirate bill on transplantation, on which your government, Prime Minister, has expressed a disagreeable opinion. That is why I ask: What steps will you take in relation to foreign policy with China? [[Attention on time.]] And if you don't reconsider your position on the transplant bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u13	There. Once again, it will be answered within 30 days. Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mr František Navrkal will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u14	Dear Prime Minister, the government crisis has been filling the headlines for some time, but the result is nowhere. You are failing to convince the president to perform his constitutional duties. So now it looks like the president is doing what he wants with the Constitution. This is how we watch the hostile takeover of the government live, and I am deeply concerned about that. Not because of you, but because of the institutions, because of our Constitution, which the president is making a torn-out calendar, and you dare not even answer. It's obvious you're weak as Prime Minister. Weaker than your predecessor, who you liked to make fun of. It turns out it is not important whether the Prime Minister speaks or does not speak four or many foreign languages, but if at the right moment he can speak Czech. And I'm afraid that's not going well for you. Your weakness also manifests itself on the functioning of government both inside and outside. The government's busted. When I say in, I mean, like, the quality of the proposals. A number of things are under-negotiated, a number of under-thought out. And that's often not the case with individual resorts. The lack of coordination from the Office of the Government is to blame. It has an external dimension. How about the inability to reach an agreement and propose a candidate for a European Commissioner, even if time is already pressing us? Or has the government given up because of your European affairs, we don't stand a chance on interesting portfolio? I understand you're dealing with your own problems. I understand you're overreacting with the president. But wouldn't the Czech Republic deserve a better premiere, which will be able to deliver to the best? You can't make it. Prime Minister, wouldn't it be more honest to resign and hand the government over to a more competent colleague unburdened by affairs - yes, those are in the government, and I say this as an opposition MP - and then just walk away? Everyone would be relieved. Mostly you and the Czech Republic. Consider it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to interpel, which will be answered in writing. Mr František Navrkal and Mr Jakub Michálek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u16	Prime Minister Babiš, you have recently argued that you have solved the problem of the Lusatia Hospital in Rumburk. At first, I was pleased by this statement, because I am very concerned about the crisis of quality and accessibility of health care in the Šluknov region. But now I'm disappointed because it turns out that you didn't actually manage to negotiate a solution, and the hospital goes on to declare insolvency. In particular, Rumburk's council did not agree on Tuesday to pay off last year's hospital loss, which was a condition for her takeover of Regional Health. Very strangely, neither the mayor of the city nor any other member of the ANO movement in the council voted for the proposal. That's why I want to ask you: didn't you negotiate support for your plan from members of your own political movement in Rumburk? And do you intend in any way to prevent further deepening of this crisis and, where appropriate, how? Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u17	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Jakub Michálek, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u18	Thank you for the floor. So I'm starting the 11th interview with the Prime Minister, who isn't here again. I think it is not respectful of Members. I don't think we're trying to conjure up the House of Deputies' negotiations over some minimum required peace, either. But the fact that the Prime Minister does not systematically go to interpelations, especially written but also oral ones, is a really big problem. My question is that I have discovered that the government has an information system in which information is stored on how to implement the programming declaration. It's some kind of computer program, an application where it's possible to monitor what specific tasks have been assigned in relation to a specific item in the programming declaration, who is working on them, what condition it is and so on. I wanted to ask for information about this information system through this interview, that is, by whom, how it was created, and the outputs from this information system, so that we Members who are to control the government get information about the state of the tasks that are in the programming declaration. If we have this information at our disposal, I am convinced that there will be a lot of questions for Members about how you have progressed with the implementation of the item or item in the programming declaration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u19	Thank you. It shall also be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Before I give the floor next in line, Mrs Pekarová, I will read the apologies. Mr Marian Bojko apologizes today from 14:30 to 18:00 for work reasons, Mrs Ivana Nevludová today from 14:30 to 18:00 for work reasons, Mr Lukáš Černohorskýý today from 14:30 for work reasons, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk today between 14:30 and 18:00 for doctor visits, Mr Radek Zlesák today between 14:45 and 19:00 for work reasons and Mrs Helena Válková between 14:30 and 18:00 for work reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'll allow myself to follow up on the interpellation that Vice-President Pikal had here. Because he's been very detailed, I'll just add a simple question: Mr. Prime Minister, do you still have confidence in the head of the Antimonopoly Office? And do you regard him as a man in the right place? How much longer do you think this function can be performed by a person who has such suspicions of various machinations? With his role in the myth, we could spend a lot of time here. After all, we've discussed this many times before. So I'm interested in your view of the current sustainability of Mr. Rafaj's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u21	Thank you. Next is Mr Stanislav Blaha, Mr Jakub Michálek will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u22	Dear Prime Minister, you have repeatedly said that one of the great achievements of your government is that you consider the recompensation of the toll system. You have also repeatedly said that we are the only country in the European Union that has successfully - I am stressing successfully - competed. If we ignore the fact that due to the same tender, the police are interested in your first Vice-President and at the same time the head of your member club ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek, we cannot ignore today's judgment of the Regional Court in Brno, which orders the Office for the Protection of Competition to re-examine the contract with CzechToll. The President of the Senate even called it unlawfully closed. Given that in recent weeks the Road and Motorway Directorate has failed to compete even with the new toll system administrator, I am interested, and I believe that not only me, what will happen next. Will you continue the existing agreement with CzechToll and give Kapsch a good reason for international arbitration? Or, based on today's judgment, will you denounce it and give a good reason for the same company, CzechToll? Doesn't the Czech Republic have more than enough international embarrassments in these days? And isn't the public money threatened by the lack of government skills and your transport ministers too much? So a clear question to conclude: How and who will choose the myth in the Czech Republic and on which sections of roads exactly? I request an answer in writing, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u23	Thank you. The last of the block of interpelling the Prime Minister is Mr Jakub Michálek, because Mrs Markéta Pekarová, Adamová, withdrew this interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u24	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to comment on the fact that, according to our calculations, the Prime Minister was missing 14 of the 16 written interventions held in the last year. This means that he has some 12 per cent attendance, when he comes here to the Chamber of Deputies for a meeting to answer questions from Members. The last time he spoke to Mrs. Kovářová here, he asked her if she had any problems, if she was unhappy. I think he should start with him and ask if he has any trouble going to the House. Maybe we can help him figure it out so he can make time. I think that when someone is unable to plan even his time to go to the Chamber of Deputies for a time which he is obliged to reserve under the law and to answer questions from Members who present questions to citizens from regions and regions and want to solve the problems that concern them, such a person cannot control the government of the Czech Republic. If he can't even schedule his own time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u25	Thank you. I note that all applications to the Prime Minister have been exhausted. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. I call on Mr Jakub Michálek to give an interview to the Minister of Justice, Marie Benešová, and thus launch a block of replies from the members of the Government to the interpelation of Members. Mr Jan zahradník will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u26	Thank you for the floor. My interpelation will follow up on the previous interview with the Prime Minister and concerns the Whistleblowing Act, or the protection of corruption notifiers, and the Act on lobbying regulation. These two laws were undertaken by the Government in its programming declaration and were also included in the Government's legislative plan for 2018. Unfortunately, they have not yet been presented in the Chamber of Deputies, although they should have been submitted by the end of 2018. They weren't even transferred to 2019, so they're floating somewhere in the airlock. And I would like to ask Mrs. Justice Minister Benešová, who has responsibility for the Justice Department, what condition these laws are in and when they will be presented. I've asked here several times. The last time I got an answer from Mr. Kněžínek was that in a few weeks, and yet in that relatively long time, nothing happened at all since the last time I asked about it. So what's stopping these laws from going to the Chamber of Deputies? When will they be presented so that the Chamber of Deputies can approve them during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u27	Thank you for the interview and I will ask Minister Marie Benišová for an answer. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u28	Thank you. Dear Member, if you'd come for coffee, I would have shown you all this and you didn't have to interpel me. But I'd be happy to answer your question. As far as the bill on the protection of notifiers and the related amendment law is concerned, although it was only submitted to the government on 18 February of this year, as you know, I have not yet been in office, but this has been done on the basis of the need to settle the amount of essential comments received, so there has been a bit of delay. At the same time, there was an intensive negotiation on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of persons notifying infringements of Union law and it was clear that, given the increasing speed of the negotiation process, it would be appropriate to submit a draft law against the initial assumptions already as a standard of implementation. In this sense, the Legislative Council of the Government also formulated its comments, which discussed the draft laws on 18 April 2019 and which interrupted their discussion with the recommendation that the newly submitted draft law should already transpose that directive. [[15.00 hours]] I see this procedure as logical given that, in the event of an independent adoption of the original bill, it would still be necessary to make changes to it for the purpose of full transposition. The preparatory work is now under way to compare the current draft directive with the draft law on the protection of notifiers so that an accelerated transposition can take place after the directive is approved in the second half of 2019. Subsequently, the amended proposals will be re-submitted to the Government for discussion. I'm personally guarding it, and I'm personally dealing with it. On the question of lobbying, the situation is somewhat different here, but the procedure in the preparation of the proposal for a law on lobbying and the related amendment law was also logical motives in order to ensure the best quality of the legislation presented. The proposal for a law on lobbying and related amendment law was submitted to the Government on 27 December last year and subsequently discussed on 7 March by the Legislative Council of the Government. It interrupted the negotiations, so their discussion, brought them back to the petitioner to rework. During this period, and also subsequently, non-binding negotiations were still under way with comment points in order to deal with as much as possible of a significant number of comments. Both laws were subsequently amended on the basis of the comments contained in the draft opinions of the Legislative Council of the Government and in the reporting reports submitted to the Government on 15 April 2019. On 26 June this year, both proposals were to be dealt with by the Government Council for the Coordination of Combating Corruption, but its negotiations had to be cancelled due to the extraordinary negotiations of the Chamber of Deputies, and the proposal will therefore be dealt with at a substitute date, which is 16. 7th of this year. So in a few days. Subsequently, the inclusion of both proposals in the Government's agenda is envisaged. In the context of the preparation of the Act on lobbying, I cannot mention that throughout the entire period of its creation we are trying to reach the maximum possible consensus with the widest possible number of persons and institutions that might be affected by it in the future. We want to avoid subsequent potential malfunctions, as happened in Hungary, for example. The work committee focused on lobbying all the time on each phase of the proposal. The last meeting was on 4 June 2019. [[Your time, Madam Secretary.]] That's probably all I can say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u29	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u30	Yes, I'm interested in a follow-up question. And the follow-up question is very simple. So when do we get it to the Chamber of Deputies, both of them? Because I didn't get an answer. I got the answer that sometime at the end or the second half of this year should be the first proposal about whistleblowing in the government, so I suppose by the end of 2020, we should have this whistleblowing and I'm interested in the lobbying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u31	So, Madam Secretary will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u32	I cannot say such a specific term, of course, because this is mainly about quality, and as I said, to avoid any simply unpleasantness experienced by the surrounding countries. But I have both of these laws in a viewfinder that tries to put them first. Plus, it's actually in the programming statement. So the way I would see it, by the end of the year, I'm going to report to you about it, and I don't think it's a good idea to get it to the House by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u33	Thank you. The next is Mr Jan Zahradník, who will give an interview to the Minister of Environment Richard Brabec. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u34	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Minister, you recently commented on the Ten Million Trees initiative in the context of climate stabilisation and the fight against drought. They're supposed to go into the landscape, but they're supposed to go into the cities. At the same time, trees should be planted in the cities as much as possible because they help to cool down the local microclimate, clean the air and create a pleasant environment for the inhabitants. Could you inform us, Minister, if there is any timetable for this initiative, how many trees are to be planted in the near future and how many should be planted in large cities, such as Prague, Brno, Ostrava, like České Budějovice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u35	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u36	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for the question or the interview, because it is one of our flagships this year. We are preparing this project together with the Partnership Foundation, which you may know, and there will be a great division of roles. The Partnership Foundation will be in charge of, say, the grant private structure, because it will also mean a combination of private money, i.e. money for private donors who will be willing to invest in this great project. The Ministry of Environment is in charge of the state section, i.e. the State Environmental Fund, the possibility of using grant funds, whether the operational programme Environment, national programmes and so on. The project already has its first form of the website. It's called the sazime future.cz so you can eventually find some of the data there. And, of course, we are already communicating with dozens of our partners, with whom we have already made several meetings. There is the Union of Towns and Communities, there is the Association of Regions, there is the Agency for Nature and Landscape Conservation, there is the State Land Office and many other organizations that have merged together with the goal - and now please consider it as that they are really preliminary figures so far. The ten million trees - planting should be roughly spread over five years. This means that we would like to start planting in the autumn of this year, because planting in large trees in summer would of course not be effective, many would dry. I stress that it is the planting of trees in the forest, because in the woods tens of millions of trees will be planted in the coming years to replace trees that unfortunately succumbed to or are subject to barking calamity. There it will be a renewal, which will be provided by the Forests of the Czech Republic or by the Military Forests and Farms or, of course, by private forest owners. This will be an initiative where we will look for a combination of companies, offices, schools, private persons, the state and we will actually try to use all the suitable land - I stress the appropriate land - to plant new trees. This means, roughly if we had, it is an ambitious scenario, but if we were to say that we are about to plant two million trees a year, which means that we would roughly double the current rate of planting trees in the Czech Republic in the non-forestry landscape. They will be mainly deciduous trees, ideally a combination of some original trees in the Czech countryside, whether they are limes, oaks, beech trees, of course fruit trees. We will use a wide range of our existing programmes for this, the renewal of draw, and of course we are already financing a number of projects within the operational programme. [[15.10 hours]] We would like to introduce specific parameters, because we are working on them with the Partnership Foundation, in August or at the latest in September, but hundreds of candidates who would like to participate in the project are already reporting through the website. And of course, and we all understand that, it is not easy to provide seedlings for these trees either, because of course we also compete with those interested in planting leafbreads in the woods today, so naturally we also work with kindergartens, with special companies, but they are in a project such as Arboeko and many other NGOs, but also companies that plant trees and which of course will adapt their offer to demand. It is possible that at the beginning it will be necessary to import some part of the trees from abroad, which is what kindergarteners are doing today in the woods, but over time, within, say, one or two years tops, we will already have the full capacity to cover it with seedlings from our own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u37	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u38	Thank you, Mr President. It is, of course, a commendable event, Minister, ten million trees, each citizen one tree. I actually thought you had some other flagships, like the Waste Act, for example. It's a flagship. But this is okay. For example, we are also raising a young generation to participate in this. I had a follow-up question prepared for the seedlings. We know well that in some moments, and my last interpellation to you was in the sense that it is not good, we do not have enough seedlings in national parks, so I believe that if you have such ambitious plans that you will be able, preferably from home sources, to provide seedlings for this event. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u39	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u40	Thanks again for the addition. You will certainly see other flagships here, definitely this year's Waste Act. I would like to say here, perhaps with a little bit of pathos, that this project is widely considered precisely for the reason you were talking about. Not only is the tree the best natural air conditioning and oxygen production, air moisturizer, it is nice to be around people, but we want to be very involved and we also involve schools. Not only do children plant trees on school grounds, which may remind someone at our age of the object of the land that we have yet to experience, but I do not want to downplay it, but we want to mainly, as we have created a new relationship with the people of the Czech Republic who took the water for granted, and today we often see that it is not for granted anymore, so we would very much like to from the youngest generation, but through all generations, to create a relationship with the trees to stop taking them for granted, but as amazing organisms that help us and actually save us. And maybe now you know, or you've read about, say, one study by the University of Zurich, which says that if about 1.2 trillion trees were planted in the world, or 1,200 billion trees, it would stop climate change. So this will be the contribution of the Czech Republic, but we would like the $10 million to be the bottom line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u41	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Vít Kaňkovský with an interview with Minister Adam Vojtěch. Before he comes, I'll read an apology. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík apologizes from 15 a.m. to the end of the day on a business trip. And Mr Marek Výborný today from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u42	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. Minister, I would like to interpel you with the issue of domestic health care crisis. It's no secret, and it's been weeks, maybe months in the media, that the nurses at home are holding a strike alert at the moment. We all know that the segment of home health care, i.e. field care, care for patients in the home environment, is long-term underfunded. That certainly doesn't fall on your head, because the segment has been underfunded for a long time. However, I expected that, as part of the settlement of payments that you have claimed in the long term, payment settlement would also take place in this much-needed segment. We all also know that the segment of home health care, or care in field services, about patients in the home environment is significantly cheaper than care in the hospital environment. This means that there is also an offer that if we can better finance home health care, we will save for care in the hospital environment. There is a big problem at the moment, because there is a shortage of nurses on the labour market, and if nurses are even more underfunded in domestic health care, their salaries than in hospitals, it can be expected that this will not last long and that this much needed segment will be reduced. I want to ask you, Minister, how do you want to respond to this? It is already known that there has been no agreement on the domestic health segment in the 2020 conciliation procedure. So my question is, how do you want to deal with it and how do you want to contribute to making payments for at least 2020 in a better mode. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u43	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister of Health for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I certainly agree that domestic care is a very important segment within the health sector and is very effective and clearly has the support of the Ministry of Health. But what I can't agree with is that the segment is in some sort of major crisis. Yes, there are problems, just like in all segments. Problems are solved, but it's not that the segment is in crisis. On the contrary, this segment is growing steadily and is growing even more this year and will grow even more next year than in previous years. When we look at the increase in remuneration from 2013 to 2018, this segment's remuneration increased by 30 percent, which is the most of all outpatient segments. So this is the first thing - the payments grow most of all outpatient segments for 2019. In the expertise of 925 - home care there is an increase of around 160 million, plus also domestic mobile palliative care, which is actually also counted on it, there is another increase, a total of about 200 million crowns in the expertise of 925 and 926, which is an increase of about 8 percent and again one of the largest in recent years. It's just that in this respect, it's not that the segment suffers from any significant underfinance, that it's been strangled somehow. On the contrary, it grows and grows much more than in previous years. As far as the next year is concerned, there is an even bigger increase. The increase should be somewhere around 12 percent, in this year 8, overall next year around 12 percent. The total increase in nominal growth is 340 million: 250 million expertise 925 and 90 million expertise 926, i.e. mobile specialized palliative care. This means an even higher increase than this year again. And I have to say that even this increase is higher than for other segments. When you look at the overall increase, it moves around 4 to 5 percent for other segments, home care is 12 percent. Of course, there are certain bonus criteria that relate to this, because we want those who provide the highest quality care who take care of patients who work continuously on weekends who take care of specially expensive patients to reach the highest remuneration, but overall, the segment is just growing and growing. In addition, for the first time in history, we have established a working group for the conceptual solution of home care, because it is not only possible to spend money, it has to have some meaning, some concept. The group works, works very honestly, has clear outputs, already legislative proposals. Updates of material codes are being prepared, which are undervalued today, where we assume that there will be a settlement so that the actual material performance corresponds to the reality of how the nurses need them in their home care. This will be ready by the end of the year and we expect it to be included in the list of performances, which is about another 150 million CZK, as we estimate so far. [[15.20 hours]] And I have one more thing to say about the growth, because it is not only the growth of the payment, financial in the segment as I mentioned it, but the segment is growing overall in terms of the number of nurses providing domestic care, the number is increasing steadily, between 2018 and 2019 the last data show a 145 sister increase. And when I look at the longer time series since 2011, when I have the numbers, every year, the number of nurses providing home care. So it also doesn't indicate a crisis. And the last figure - the number of providers interested in contracts is also growing. And the VZP doesn't even have the capacity to actually meet those requirements. So once again, a factor that clearly shows that there is an interest in providing home care. And this segment is not in crisis, although we are helping it significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u45	The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u46	I thank the Minister for his quite extensive answer. However, I cannot agree with his words that this segment is not in crisis. The fact that the number of nurses is growing, and that the segment is growing as a whole, is logical. We are getting older, we have more and more elderly people who have a number of diseases and require the care of nurses in their home environment. That means it's logical, and it would be wrong if the segment didn't grow. But if we look at the salaries of nurses in home health care versus nurses who are in hospital facilities, and even those are definitely not overpaid, then there's about a third of the difference. That means, if it takes a long time, this underfinancing of nurses' salaries, those nurses will be running from this segment. That means yes, I also appreciate the conceptual steps, which I think are very right, because in the future there is also a need to do some revision of payments and performances. However, at least it's an imminent crisis, because those nurses won't last long. That means, I'm asking what you're going to do about it, because the wages just can't be forgotten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u47	The Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u48	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure you do. I'm saying that the segment is not without problems, I didn't say that, I just said that really according to all the data I have, it's growing compared to, like, other segments, where the number of nurses in time, for example, tends to decrease. So I agree that the number of patients who require home care, long-term care, is also growing, that is, of course, the fact that the increase in payments, especially in the last year and the next, clearly exceeds production, as we see it, as we map it. So I think that the 12% increase in payments next year is very solid compared to the other segments and that, of course, this money can be used to raise salaries. Of course, that's what we're counting on. It should be noted that, of course, domestic care is a segment that we cannot directly influence from the point of view of salaries. It's not a segment, as far as I know, that would follow the tables. They are private providers who reward sisters by setting up wage policies. But the extra money that's gonna go in there, we're definitely assuming that they're gonna go in for a raise on the nurses' salaries. But the problem is that some providers, even within the framework of the conciliation procedure, really had demands that we could not meet, and even insurance companies could not meet. The demand for a 40% increase year on year would completely disrupt health as a whole, because if we increase home care by 40 percent, then other providers of the other 13 segments will come and say why they get 40, why we only get five, six, ten. So the increase has to be consistent with the total increase in all segments. And yet the 12 percent year-on-year increase next year, I think it's very good. But we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u49	Next in line is Mr. Ondřej Profant with an interview with the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u50	Dear Minister, I have read in the media today that your ministry is preparing a contract for nearly CZK 4.5 billion to ensure the delivery of a radio system for an integrated rescue system for eight years. This contract is published without a tender, allegedly for security reasons, respectively. two reasons are given in the media - security and time distress. In case of time distress, it is clear that your ministry has known for a very long time, approximately since the radio invention, that it will need these networks, so that it will also need to be changed regularly and so on, which is why I think this argument is quite odd. On the security issue of normal modern technologies, security must be ensured by high-quality standards based on mathematics, not by secrecy. I know that your ministry likes secrecy, it's in the gesture, and it always likes to hide behind such security reasons, as well as in a firm that controls electronic IDs and the like, but in modern IT, this has nothing to do with it. For example, all algorithms that ensure the safety of our banking and the like are completely public precisely for reasons of public control, because it just has to be safe, there must not be a mistake that - it is so easy to reveal that if anyone reads it, they will reveal a mistake. So I want to ask you what to do about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u51	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u52	Thank you. Dear Member, the so-called Pegasus system, which is based on Tetrapol technology and was built by the Ministry of the Interior - and is owned by the Czech Republic, the entire network - was partly modernised between 1995 and 2003, between 2014 and 2016. When I joined the Ministry of the Interior a year ago, I inherited material called the Security and Mobile Communications Strategy for Security and Rescue Services with a view of ten years, including identified radio spectrum requirements. This document is classified at the level reserved due to the potential disadvantage of the possible reservation of the complex information contained. If I simplify this, the integrated rescue system, as I said, works on Tetrapol, which provides voice communication at 380 MHz and has very limited data transfer capabilities. This means it can handle narrowband data transmissions, text messages, statuses, GPS localization or viewing into registers. Within the framework of the strategy - I will try to tell you as much as possible and please understand - the Ministry of the Interior has been looking for several ways to ensure a modern way of communicating an integrated rescue system that, in addition to the voice, will be able to provide high-speed data transmissions. The original plan was to use the 700 MHz frequency for this purpose, which is the frequency that is now planned for the so-called fourth operator. And the Ministry gave way to the request of the Czech Telecommunications Office and unlocking part of this frequency. If we insisted, it would mean a certain degree of frequency impairment for a possible fourth operator, so we retreated from this variant. After that, we came up with a solution that ensures, first, an extension of the current network's operation and its minor modernisation, because the support of the network ends in 2021 by the manufacturer, which is Airbus, so we have come up with a solution that will ensure the operation of the current network for the necessary time, while the Ministry will come up with the construction of a new network, or that new communication system, on the only free frequency available today, which is 425 or 450 MHz. [[15.30 hours]] This material was submitted three quarters of a year ago to the Security Council of the State, but even after three quarters of a year of discussion between me as Home Secretary and Prime Minister, we did not come to a conclusion that would allow this material to be submitted to the government. This means, in a situation where there was a risk of delay, where there is no agreement within the Government between the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister that this solution at 425 or 450 MHz is acceptable, so all I have left is that I have submitted this material, which ensures that the current regime continues to function for some time. At the same time, the government has ordered the Ministry of the Interior to prepare a proposal for a final solution to the strategy I was talking about by the end of October of this year. As much as this can be interpreted as a complication, I want to say that in a similar way many countries in Europe are moving forward. They choose the way to maintain the current system, whether Tetrapol or Tetra, and at the same time prepare to build a new system based on LTE or 5G, but the transition is possible only after verification and acceptance by the user. So from my point of view, we're doing nothing but try to guarantee an integrated rescue system that it'll be able to reach out until a new, modern system is built that's capable of high-speed data. But I say again, building this new system is possible when there is agreement within the government coalition, and so far there is no agreement with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u53	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? I see you do. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u54	Minister, you yourself say that the original manufacturer Airbus supports the technology by 2021. You've been commissioning for eight years, so I'm assuming by 2027. That doesn't seem necessarily necessary to me. It's two parliamentary periods, and it's just reserved for that one contractor. There's been a market consultation where, in fact, all the mobile operators have told you that they are ready to modify their networks for this purpose, the entries from them are public. But it seems like your ministry wasn't really trying to create a market competition, but rather trying to end it the way it's being put forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u55	Thank you. The Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u56	Mr. Ambassador, believe me, we've tried very hard. The problem is that I can't afford to risk even a second when the basic system of connections doesn't work within the integrated rescue system. That is, if we were to build a new system, and I agree with that, and I strongly advocated that in debates with the Prime Minister, we will still not avoid some time after which the system will run old and the system built. Because the transition to the new system is possible only in a situation where it will be built, when the Czech Republic will be adequately covered and when migration to the new system will 100% guarantee that the units of the integrated rescue system will not be connected. And in a situation where we have two years until the end of support for the current system, we have no choice but to modernise the current system. We can talk about whether eight years is a lot or not. I wanted it to be shorter in the original strategy, but again, the government was unable to agree on it, and the material, as I suggested, did not pass through the government. That means I'm in a situation where I'm dealing with a problem I didn't want, but I respect political reality, and I'm doing everything I can to ensure at least a basic connection for the units of the integrated rescue system. Communication based on commercial operators may not be possible, because the current system is sideways from the commercial network and I cannot risk the situation that, for example, in the event of a mass accident on the D1 motorway when the commercial operator is overloaded and the BTS falls, the police or firefighters will not be able to connect because the network will be overloaded and fall. Same thing in case of an attack on commercial operators' networks. It's just that the state system has to be separated, and that's how we work. I'm not happy about the situation, but it's a reality I have to deal with, and believe me, I'm doing my best.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u57	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Karla Maříková, with an interview with Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, last year I interviewed you about the reconstruction of the swimming pool part of the Thermal Hotel. The area dominated by the swimming pool and cafe is decaying and this condition is inconvenient for a long time. This year, just like last year, visitors to the film festival were expected to be shocked and the city disgraced. You mentioned during the interview that the reconstruction was one of your priorities, and it was supposed to start at the end of last year. Madam Secretary, for what reason did the reconstruction not start as planned at the end of last year, and in what state is the reconstruction now? And who is the architect of the planned reconstruction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u59	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am not taking the reconstruction of the Hotel Thermal in Karlovy Vary lightly. That's why I attended the film festival this year, for the first time, and stayed at the Thermal Hotel on purpose. Even though they offered me Pupp, I said no, no, no, I'm going to Thermal - so I can personally convince myself of his current condition. It wasn't a very nice discovery, but I think this experience was really untransferable. Seriously. The investment plan envisages the total cost of reconstruction of Thermal Hotel with an amount of CZK 580 million. The reconstruction of Hotel Thermal started in 2018. To date, the hotel's transformer station was replaced, the high voltage substation followed by the future reconstruction of technology, the exchange of air-technical units for the realization of the film festival in 2018. Research work carried out, sampling of original materials, both in the exterior and in the interior. Selection procedures have been carried out in accordance with the Act on the award of public procurement for repair designers, a comprehensive supplier of technology renewal and a number of demand procedures in the context of project processing by selected designers for the verification of price and method of implementation. In addition, some fire-fighting measures were implemented which made it conditional on the maintenance of the hotel's operation and the reconstruction of the emergency state of the congress section roof was completed. Four model rooms have also been made - in which I did not live, neither - according to which the interior of the others will be reconstructed. Projects of repairs and reconstruction of the building are processed by the design offices selected by Thermal on the basis of a selection procedure organised in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. All works will be carried out with a view to preserving the characteristics of the original work. Maximum emphasis is also placed on the restoration of original interiors. As far as the exteriors of the buildings are concerned, they are subject to me. special supervision of conservation authorities. In connection with the reconstruction of the hotel there are regular consultations with representatives of the National Heritage Institute. Similar meetings are held with the Department of Monument Care of the City of Karlovy Vary, as well as other relevant authorities of the state administration, or security forces, the Fire Rescue Department, and the legal representative of Mrs. Machoninová's architect. The project documentation is currently being processed, which is continuously consulted with the competent authorities of the state administration. The implementation of repairs and reconstruction of Thermal Hotel was divided into several functional stages, taking into account their respective character, and because of their gradual implementation, so as to maintain the maximum possible uninterrupted operation of the hotel, while not disrupting the annual international film festival, this is an absolutely unstoppable condition. As far as the outdoor swimming pool is concerned, I can inform you that a strategic cooperation agreement has already been concluded for the operation of the swimming pool relaxation complex with Saunia, s. r. o. This selected tenant will also be a partner in the reconstruction of the swimming pool centre and will also participate in the preparation of the project documentation itself. The design works relating to the pool will be started in the next few days and the reconstruction itself will be carried out. The specific construction company responsible for the reconstruction of the swimming pool and sauna complex will emerge from the public tender and the planned investment for the reconstruction of the swimming pool, including the adjacent area, is counting on costs of between CZK 120 million and CZK 130 million. Yesterday, everyone signed the reconstruction contract. In fact, there were still representatives of the board left, and they signed it yesterday. So the contract is definitely signed by both parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u61	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. I'm still wondering, Madam Secretary, if this isn't the secret that the offices were processing the project. You said it was processed by some projection offices. Then I wonder if the project will then be published for inspection and how it will be dealt with with the copyright furniture that remained at the hotel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u63	Now I'm gonna disappoint you. I don't really know the name of the screening office, but we can deliver it. I don't think there's anything secret. There was a public tender carried out by the authorities of the company, so I don't care about this level of detail. As far as publication is concerned, yes, of course, I see no problem with the project. And the third question, remind me... [[Mrs. Marík off the microphone: the furniture.]] Furniture. Well, that'll be the next question... That Thermal, like I told you, there are other meetings. It's actually been consulted there on an ongoing basis with the body of monument care, so of course we have the utmost sensitivity and the most sensitive approach, but, of course, with regard to funds. So there's not supposed to be any major change in the hotel's character. Excuse me? [[Ms Maríková off the microphone: with the original property.]] I really, really don't know, but I am able to answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u64	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová on behalf of Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u65	Dear Minister, I was quite surprised by the report that the Ministry of Industry and Trade is still paying for Agrofert's subsidies. It's amazing when the Treasury and Agriculture Departments managed to stop the financial flows to Agrofert. You justify your move to threatening courts. There's no conflict with the other ministries? So it's interesting that there's somewhere, and there's no other way, and I think it calls for individual resorts to match the notes. All the more so because your office has issued as an annex to the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness a document that allows the MIT to stop paying subsidies. Article 8 The suspension of payments is explicitly stated in the sixth paragraph that "the subsidy provider is entitled to suspend the payment of the subsidy if, in determining irregularities, such as breach of conditions and other obligations or other legislation of the Czech Republic and the European Union, the beneficiary is entitled to suspend payment of the subsidy, which may have a financial impact'. Dear Minister, I ask you why you will not stop paying the subsidies to Agrofert, unlike the other ministries. I remind you that this money is not from the European Union right now, but from taxpayers' pockets. And what is the point of Article 8, which I have quoted here when you do not apply it in the current situation? And what would it take to apply it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u66	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your question. I'm glad the question came up, and in a way, I could handle it in half a minute with a simple message that we're not paying. It just doesn't pay, it hasn't been paid since December of last year, it hasn't been paid, and therefore the claim that it's being paid isn't true. But that would be unfair. I want to elaborate more, because I don't like the fact that newspaper headlines are being used without looking into the situation, but I understand that the media world today is just going, it's taking a huge shortcut. What's the point? And maybe here, I could tie it up with what you said, with the other resorts. The Ministry of Industry and Trade pays ex post. It pays, it's very important to say. With the fact that the grant award procedure - I will now rather read it precisely in order not to make a mistake - launched by issuing a specific call, which defines the conditions for granting the subsidy, which are subsequently reflected, it is said that they are binding on both the application and payment. Translated into Czech, the payment is binding on what was done at the time of the request and when it was approved. And now there's a link to what I said was ex post. At this point, we're paying off some three-year-old projects. That means, three years ago, two and a half, three years ago, they actually applied for the project, the Ministry approved them two and three years ago, and that means they have to follow the rules that were at the time it was approved. And now, the moment someone actually asks, we're going to look at and assess the project, with the fact that the issue you're referring to is Law No. 14/2017, and the law is actually about conflict of interest, with this law on conflict of interest - and I will now look at it exactly - becoming effective 9. 2. 2017. So, in simple terms, everything that was requested before 2017 and later, after two to three years, has been requested for reimbursement, so it has to go through an individual assessment. There's no other way. We really need to assess each project, because that is also the case in the grant application and, of course, in the conditions that are. Theoretically, it can be done so-called flat-rate non-payment, but this is only in the case of a payment application if - to read it exactly now: it cannot be stopped on a flat-rate basis to reimburse any requests for payment without individual assessment in each individual case. We simply have to take each case individually. So we're dealing with each case individually, with the fact that if we look at the Agrofert projects, then the so-called default before 2017 couldn't be a conflict of interest because the law was adopted later, but there are, of course, various possible other errors and they go in the standard way. It means, he looks, he comes back, he gets short, and so on, like all the other applicants. With the fact that - to make it even more complicated - after February 2017, when the Czech law was still the Ministry of Industry and Trade had a statement from the Ministry of Justice that it was not a non-compliance in this case. The tougher measure came in August 2018, which was the so-called Omnibus, it was a European regulation, and this is already more decisively specified, in other words, in this case someone already claims that we should follow the Czech law, someone claims that we should already follow the European law. Here I dare say that we should have more of that European one. Even though we think that between 2017 and 2018, we should follow the Czech law, we still prefer to follow the fact that we do not. And now what's important is what, and I think it's all buried in it: How many claims were made after 2017? One. Different. One has been approved. And how much cash was lost? Zero. So he hasn't even asked for it yet. So there's nothing to pay for, there's no request, to put it simply, the project is still running. So the whole show that's being talked about, when they say it's being paid off, so a) it's not being paid off, but I admit that if there was an application - and I say it again - about the project, about the project that was approved after February 2017, we'd rather be on the side of security and not wait until August 2018, so there was an approved project.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u68	Time, Minister. I'm sure the Member will give you more room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u69	And the last sentence. And the project wasn't asked for payment, in other words, it's still running.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u70	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u71	So I got it right, if it were requested, it would be followed by the tougher measure. Thank you. And if I have you here, I'll ask. Today, I have noted the fact that the payment of European money has been stopped from this very operational programme Enterprise and innovation due to its high error rate, so I ask if it is true and that European officials have come and examined this operational programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u72	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u73	Yes, that's right. Just as a result of mistakes in the past, especially with the so-called definition of small and medium-sized enterprises, where I have to stand up for some sort of civil servants again, because the definition was so complicated and it was so difficult to find out who is or is not a small and medium-sized enterprise, when it was actually reliant on the fact that the company that draws must make a statement that it is a small and medium-sized enterprise. Then came the inspection from Brussels and started pairing various elements together, including the so-called related circumstances of the people who work at the company. When I say a simple example, the company was clearly small and medium according to all definitions, but it was found that the company was employed by the person who is, I suspect, a brother or simply a relative of the owner of the company, and he has a large company, so according to European parameters it had to be eliminated. And now these incomparabilitys have gradually begun to emerge, from our point of view, so sometimes too officially, however, the fact is that especially from this point of view, and that is a really ancient past, but I am not now disclaiming responsibility, I just want to comment, so for this reason the program has been suspended and it has been worth more than a year. [[15.50 hours]] So it really means, and I confirm what you said - all OPPIK, i.e. all applications under the operational programme for entrepreneurship, innovation and competitiveness are covered by national funds. However, it is suspended, in general it is already almost 20 billion crowns, with the fact that now the control has actually arrived, the control was already enough to fix what was in the past to prove that it would not happen again. And we have responded in the only possible way that every project is being controlled today and those officials have to control and go into the detail of each project and find out through various links, if it is small and medium-sized, or if it is not a small and medium-sized enterprise, and the moment the control was completed, we believe that it was quite serious, so within three months it should be the final decision. We believe that this could be released in the fall. This is also extremely important for the Minister of Finance, because we have CZK 20 billion holding back for the state budget today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u74	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Zdeněk Podal with an interview with Minister Miroslav Toman. Before I give him my word, I'll read the apology. Mr Richter apologizes today from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Jiří Strýček today from 15.30 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u75	Thank you for the floor. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I appeal to you, Minister, to interpel you on a financial contribution to the development of forest economic plans for the needs of the state forest administration. The current state of the financial means per hectare is up to CZK 300. The average price of LHP processing at the Forests of the Czech Republic was CZK 483 in 2018, CZK 560 in 2019 505 for 2020. In the area of 4,000 hectares, which is the area of the joint stock company Lesa Hradec Králové, there was an additional fee of CZK 1,040,000 for 2020. We certainly agree that it is necessary to create high-quality LHP plans for the creation of forest records, especially with regard to progressing bark sludge. I would therefore like to ask you to comment on the trend of increasing the premium on quality LHP in view of the obvious discrepancy between the contribution and the actual cost of processing forest economic plans for future years, when emphasis should be placed on quality LHP. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u76	Thank you. As the Minister is excused, he will be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Next in line is Mr Martin Jiránek with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u77	Thank you very much. So, Minister, over the last year, a number of evidence has been presented to support the conflict of interests of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and therefore violations of the European and financial regulation to conflict of interests and the Czech law on conflict of interests. I'm going to repeat the previous interpellation a little bit. After the publication of the European Commission's preliminary audit report, even the Attorney General Pavel Zeman stated that the findings were serious and could give rise to suspicion of a criminal offence. Last month, under the weight of this evidence, the payment of subsidies to Agrofert Group stopped the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund. And since the MIT's obligation to pay subsidies to Agrofert Group companies has been unclear in recent days, I would like to ask you, Minister, to answer the following three questions: What is the volume of subsidies approved by the MIT for companies from Agrofert after 9 February 2017, when the amendment to the Conflict of Interest Act came into effect? If any have been approved, whether some have already been reimbursed and, where appropriate, to what total amount. And thirdly, since we know that you have only been in office for a few weeks, and in order to clarify the media confusion of the last few days, should or should you not expect subsidies approved after 9 February 2017 for Agrofert until the competent institutions have issued a final verdict on breach of the law on conflict of interest in relation to the Czech Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u78	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I'll read one apology. Mr Radek Holomčík apologizes today from 15.15 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. To answer it perhaps from a slightly different point of view than it was just a moment ago, and maybe that's due to the different interpretations today, because I'm trying to interpret it the same way all the time, the other thing is how individual media interprets it. And I dare say that serious media is quite serious about this, quite decent. It is true that some media always pull out some targeted headline that has been flying in the Czech Republic lately, and it is clear - the MIT pays for agrifert's subsidies. Answer once again: MIT does not pay subsidies. The last one was paid in December last year, and it was a subsidy from the old years, which they do not have with the time when the conflict of interest law was put into force and this law was implemented into this matter, what does it have to do with it? So it doesn't pay. Specific but the answer to you. How many projects were after 2017, or after the incriminate period? Specifically, after 9. 2. one project has been approved, has not been reimbursed. This project is still alive, which is really normal, because by paying off the ex post, all the projects are waiting for all the applicants to finish the project. It usually takes three years, plus minus some time, so this project could be a shake-up in about one year. And then it goes in the standard way, i.e. we can't do so-called. a flat-screen stop. On the other hand, we have to assess each case individually, and only after we have found that there are so many individual cases that lead to a flat-screen stop, so we can do so, but that has not happened in this case, because - I repeat - it is still one single project, which has not yet been applied for. So the moment this project - I don't know if I said the sum, but it was up to CZK 50 million, so that's the upper limit of this project. So if he needs to be applied for next year's payment, then the standard procedure must be followed, i.e. we have to assess it, at which point we would find that it is already after 2017, and at that point the project would be clearly suspended, with the fact that it will just wait for the time to clear up all the essentials that are. So I repeat, this is one project.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u80	Is there an interest in an additional question? It's not. So the next in line is Mr Leo Luzar with an interview with Minister Marie Benešová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u81	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you for a little education as a non-lawyer concerning the restitution and investigation of the Walderode case, which quite resonates in Czech society. The question that is being offered and asked by citizens is when will these restitutions actually continue to take place. We have 30 years since the revolution, and property imbalances, and conditions are constantly on the table. Courts are dragging and witnesses are dying, archives are emptying, documents are disappearing that they might be documenting. And I feel the courage of the courts even to immerse themselves in the fact that they could examine the decisions of the courts then responsible for carrying out Benešův' decrees and try to change them. I'm asking like a layman. We understand Benešův's decrees as terminus technicus. I assume they were accompanied by some kind of implementing regulation, some kind of list, or somethin'. matters relating to property, where those who are to lose the property would be set aside. So there were such lists, and they then followed them. It seems to me that the Benešův Decrees are drawing things out of these individualities and saying: that does not really belong to them, and from the other hand, it is constantly claimed that Benešův Decrees are unstoppable. And I think they've already been exceeded. I'm interested in the position of the Justice Department, if that's true. an analysis of whether Benešův's decrees were exceeded in specific cases, such as this family already in 2008: they received a small part of the forest issued, even if it was confiscated under Benešův' decrees. Today's case is just a reminiscence of the other lawsuits that are going on in this case. And in conclusion, I want to point out one thing. Property was issued that had been seized under Benešův's decrees but had not been withdrawn until 1948. This is exactly the opposite case. He didn't have time to take over the estate until 1948, and yet he did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u82	I'll ask the Minister for an answer and pass the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, first of all, I submit that the gesture of fundamental restitution rules, and that was the law on out-of-court rehabilitation and the law on the mitigation of the consequences of certain property injustices, so it was not the Ministry of Justice but the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Justice was a gesturer and carries out an agenda of the law on judicial rehabilitation. However, this is about compensation for persons who were affected at a time of non-freedom by the decision-making process of the then law enforcement authorities. According to the provisions of Section 2 of Law No. 119/1990 Coll. This standard affects criminal decisions issued at the time of 25. 2. 1948 to 1. 1.1990 and concerning acts committed after 5. 5. 1945. The Justice Department is concerned with the issue of restitution mediated by the courts deciding on restitution actions. However, when deciding these disputes, as well as any other dispute, the courts proceed independently, they are bound by the law and by the standards of higher legal force pursuant to Act No. 6/2002 Sb., about courts and judges. The Ministry of Justice monitors and evaluates the process of district, regional, supreme courts in decision-making proceedings only, and I submit this, in terms of respect for the principles of dignity of conduct, judicial ethics, and whether there are unnecessary delays in the proceedings. That might be your one objection, as I understand it. The Ministry does not have the power to review the substantive aspects of the judgments issued or to amend or disturb them. There must be proper and, where appropriate, exceptional remedies and must therefore appeal to those higher courts as instructed. In the event of a final decision and a judgment it is possible to use a summons or, where appropriate, a retrial action, but there would have to be some additional, new evidence or confusion. A constitutional complaint is also taken into account. I just remember from my practice at the Supreme Attorney's Office that the late constitutional judge, Dr. Cepl, had decided such a complaint and did not admit the property. Unfortunately, we are now faced with the opposite decisions. So it is necessary to use these resources consistently and, of course, we are, if necessary, assisted by advice and a reference to the competent court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u84	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u85	I just need a quick refill. I would be very pleased, Madam Secretary, if the Justice Department would analyse whether or not Benešův's decrees have been broken. Because it's the alpha omega of the restitution decision that the House here has historically accepted, that these decrees will simply not be broken. If this is to happen, or if it is to happen, or if it is to happen, it would be worth preparing a law to prevent it. This means a law which this House can accept in order to prevent the activities from being carried out, so that the courts which must comply with the law should proceed as this House established in the 1990s. That means the impenetrability of Benešův's decrees. And the other thing. The case I mentioned might be a thought. The property was issued because, in 1948, in that decisive period, the State was not sufficient to take over the property that was to be confiscated under the Benešův Decrees, received it after 1948, and was issued because it had not been seized before. This is a specific case of when... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Sorry, so I didn't finish it. At least the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u86	Madam Secretary will be interested in a supplement? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u87	I just want to fill it in. As far as the analysis is concerned, I have no news that such an analysis is available. However, I'll check the archives to see if anything like this has been done and, if necessary, I'll report back to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u88	Thank you, too. And to another interview, please, to Mrs Kozlová, who will interpel Mr Plaga on the merger of the NUVs and the NIDVs. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u89	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the absent Minister of Plaga and ask him questions about the SAO and the NIDV. Recently, information has appeared in the media on the intention of MŠMT to merge the National Institute for Education and the National Institute for Further Education. First of all, I would like to ask whether this decision was preceded by a detailed analysis or audit that would identify problem areas or duplications in the activities of both institutions. And if so, would it be possible for Members to introduce us to this material? Then I would also like to know how the agenda of both institutions will be maintained. How specifically activities will be ensured in relation to the preparation of revisions to the framework training plans and how this will be done with the working groups that have been responsible for this activity so far. And for the last time, he's gonna have an agenda for vocational and continuing education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u90	Thank you, too. The Minister will answer you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Now I beg Mr Třešňák, who will interpel Mr Vojtěch on the threat of non-accessibility of health care in the Šluknov region. Mr Blaha will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u91	Thank you. Good afternoon. Dear Minister, let me ask you about further progress by the Ministry on the possible termination of the hospital in Rumburk, which will affect the lives of 55,000 people in the Šluknov region. The hospital in Rumburk has, I think today, a decision on insolvency and can thus follow the fate of those regional hospitals from the last ten years in which there has been a significant reduction in health care. I could mention, for example, hospitals in Mariánské Lázně, Sušice, today also discussions about the hospital in Litoměřice and others. We have learned on social networks that you have the situation firmly in your hands, and even the Prime Minister has expressed himself on his Facebook page, which was mentioned here today by colleague František Navrkal: we have solved the problem. Again, for many of my other interventions on a similar subject, as well as here, Minister, I completely understand that urban and regional hospitals are primarily a matter for the authorities, and the Ministry has only a minimum of tools to interfere with their functioning. Even, and I'm sure you'll confirm that the insurance company is directly responsible for the availability of healthcare, and the debt to the General Health Insurance Company is supposedly a significant part of the hospital's debt. However, when I look at the previous statements, it will not allow me to mention that there is an YES movement in the leadership of the city of Rumburk, which refused to pay debts in the council, and a large part of the board of directors are also members of the ANO movement. So it would seem that the communication barriers will not be here and can be gradually sought by common forces. Since most of the debt is vis-à-vis VZP, there is a huge paradox here, namely that the insurance company, which is supposed to be responsible for the available health care to its clients, will actually eliminate the available health care to its clients by recovering the debts at the same time. However, I do not blame the VZP for this situation, and it was probably set by bad remuneration and advance payments. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'll just fill in the question. So what is the Ministry's procedure if it is presented that the problem is solved? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] How many hospitals in the Czech Republic are threatened with possible debt traps of similar magnitude?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u92	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Member, thank you for asking. Indeed, the situation in the Šluknov Probe is very, very complicated, very complicated. And believe it or not, I've devoted myself to her every day in the last few weeks, really every day I have people on the phone who are primarily in charge of it, which means deputy Rumburk, insurance company and more. We communicate, of course, with health, Regional health as the main provider of health care in the Ústí Region. I wrote a letter, a very appeal letter to Mr. Governor of the Ústí Region, to which I have not yet received any reply. So we're really trying to push very hard. What you're talking about, about Facebook or where it was, it was based on the meeting we called, indeed, where the Prime Minister was, where I was, where all the representatives of Šluknovska, the mayor and representatives of the Region and Regional Health and from VZP were. And the VZP has made a clear proposal on the table, a specific paper, with the fact that it offers a very advantageous payment mechanism, which is based on some kind of ionization, because, in short, all the analyses show that we really need to ensure care in the Šluknovský procesku and that it is necessary to banish the hospital beyond others, which is legitimate. So this proposal was on the table just to, let's say, ease the takeover process so that Regional Health doesn't worry that it will take over a hospital that will be loss-making, etc. So there was a really clear proposal. That's what we negotiated, what I negotiated with the VZP. Unfortunately, the problem is that still Ústí Region, Regional Health simply are not able to stand up actively and make a clear statement. It's very complicated. And we have a rather complex position as the Ministry, because, as you rightly mentioned, it's a city hospital, it's in the Ústí Region, the Ministry has no direct ability to influence what's happening in the hospital. So we just have to push all the subjects like this to move the situation somewhere. That's what we do. But the will, I feel, is not particularly on the side of the county. And it's the responsibility of the county. And if the governor hasn't even answered my letter yet, then the situation is very complicated. I have scheduled a meeting with Regional Health after 20 July, because the Regional Health after our pressure once again said that they will submit an audit of the Rumbur hospital, which has been going on for months. She was supposed to present it on August 12th. Now they said they'd present it on July 20th. Right in that week after July 20th, because I think it's Sunday, we have a meeting scheduled with Regional Health at the Ministry of Health where we want to see the audit and we want to hear clearly the steps next to what they're going to do about it and how the care will be provided. Of course, the insurance company is a strong player. But again, the insurance company gave a clear payment mechanism so the hospital could get more money so it wouldn't be loss-making. But still, the situation hasn't moved in any direction yet. I still believe that there will be a solution. The care needs to be taken care of. We are currently discussing ensuring cross-border care with the German hospital, which is very close. It is a certain transformation of the hospital in Varnsdorf, which actually today has subsequent care, outpatient care, that even there would perhaps create beds of acute bed care, so that even Varnsdorf would have some capacity. We deal with surrounding hospitals - Děčín, Česká Lípa. Of course, even Ústí partially to cover the care of children's patients. This means, indeed, we are very intensive about this so that it does not simply happen that care will not be provided. Of course, this is also a strengthening of the medical rescue service, which has a exit post in Rumburk, so that in terms of some acute cases, in order to ensure that this service is also provided. But the situation is very complicated, very complicated. And I still believe - I am an optimist - that there will be a solution that will be good for the šluknovský prognosis. But all those partners have to want. And so far, I feel like they don't really want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u94	Thank you, too. Is the Member interested in an additional question? He mít. prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u95	I thank the Minister for his answer. And actually, it's pretty lively so far, because every few minutes, there's some new news in the media on the subject. Including, for example, the deadline of July 20th, when the audit should be completed. However, I would also like to ask, apart from the fact that the VZP has put on the table - he is more of a question on the VZP - put on the table some system of bonification of the hospital, put on the table e.g. even a payment schedule for the debts? Because I reckon that's probably the biggest barrier that makes Ustecký kraj, virtually. Regional health is preventing the hospital from taking over. And that's the debt to the VZP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u96	Thank you. The Minister will answer the additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u97	I admit I don't know the exact structure of the hospital's management. Again, it's not a hospital run by the Ministry, so I can't quite see into the intestines. Besides, maybe that's why Regional Health just had the audit processed, due diligence is called professionally, the management, to actually look at it and map it. But as far as I know, that debt isn't just a debt to the RZP. There are debts for other service suppliers, food suppliers, etc. So it's not quite that simple that if the VZP debt is settled, the hospital will work. I think it's really about the payment side, because once the hospital, of course, has a problem with the payments, because there was historically just a problem in production, it wasn't really production, so of course it's going to show up on the payments, so it's a spiral. So I think it's necessary to solve the income question so that the payments go up. The VZP proposal is very good. Very good. I think that's not just how the representatives of Regional Health and others assessed it. But, as I say, it is about making those who are responsible - and from my point of view, really responsible to the region - move forward and finally give a clear view of what they imagine. Because so far, it's just a vague communication that they're ready to take over. There must be an audit. We'll see, et cetera. But I think we've done the best we can. And once again, I have a 20th meeting where I clearly want a final position, we take over the hospital, or we don't take over the hospital, so that we, too, and the insurance company, can act accordingly. Because if they say they won't take over the hospital, we'll be dealing with another situation. We'll deal with Varnsdorf, we'll deal with Germany, we'll deal with another situation. [[Attention on time.]] But we just don't have that position yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u98	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr Blaha, who will interpel the Minister of Kremlík in the matter of myth-related legal twitching. Mr. Vácha will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u99	Dear Minister, we have heard from the Prime Minister several times about the huge success of this recompetitive myth. He has also repeatedly said that we are the only country in the EU that successfully competed over the selection of myths. The Department of Transport has been under YES for six years. Antonín Prachař, Dan Ťok, now you and Mr. Faltýnek managed to take part in the mandate. He gave it to himself. I will borrow your Prime Minister's words again. I'm sure they're all experts. And what's the result? Because of the greatest success of this government, i.e. the competing myth, the police are interested in the president of your MP Jaroslav Faltýnek. And today another sentence has been added. The Regional Court in Brno orders the Office for the Protection of Competition to examine this newly concluded contract with CzechToll again. The fact that ŘSD has failed to compete in recent weeks even with the new toll system administrator is also a great success? I'm interested, and not just me, what happens next. All taxpayers are interested in this, too. It is also interested in truck drivers and the owners of transport companies. The mayors and the captains are interested, too. We've got five and a half months left to launch this big event, and we don't know anything. Will you continue the existing agreement with CzechToll? And you're gonna give Kapscha a good reason for international arbitration? Or, in the light of today's judgment, will you denounce it and give a good reason for the same company, CzechToll? So, a clear question to conclude. How and who will be in the Czech Republic from 1. 1st of next year to pick a myth? And I ask for an equally clear answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u100	Thank you. Before the minister gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to an apology. Mr Jelínek apologizes to us from 16.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to recapitulate the situation relating to the myth and tolling system. On 20 September 2018, the Office for the Protection of Competition conducted individual administrative procedures in connection with a public procurement procedure called the Electronic Toll System stopped and rejected the applicant's individual proposals. On the same day, the contracting authority gave up its right to submit a breakdown against all the statements of the decision and requested, in accordance with the Administrative Rules of Procedure, the Office for the Protection of Competition to copy the operative part together with the indication of the so-called rule of law. The waiver of the right to submit bankruptcy and the related acquisition of legal power of this Decision enabled the same day to conclude a contract for the supply and provision of comprehensive services for the operation of the electronic toll system with the selected supplier, namely CzechToll, s. r. o. and SkyToll, a. s. And that doesn't change anything. The contract is valid, it's effective. On 21 September 2018, the contract was published in the register of contracts in accordance with the Act on the Register of Contracts. At this time, this contract became effective, allowing the supplier to start work on the supply of electronic tolling system. These work continues and next week is expected to be a so-called control day, when, with the participation of the media, we will publish to the public how the work on the implementation of the myth has progressed and what will be the next steps towards 1 December and 1 January 2020. Consequently, on 24 September 2018, the Office for the Protection of Competition initiated proceedings on the basis of a proposal from the same day for the imposition of a ban on the performance of the supply contract and the provision of comprehensive services for the operation of the electronic toll system. On 10 December 2018, the Office for the Protection of Competition decided in this procedure on a proposal to impose a ban on the supply and provision of comprehensive services for the operation of the electronic toll system by rejecting the proposal. On 18 December 2018, the appellant submitted a decision by the Office for the Protection of Competition, which was rejected on 25 February 2019 by the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition, confirming the first step decision. At the same time, on 14 December 2018, the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition decided to decompose against statements 2, 3, 4 and 6 of the decision of the Office for the Protection of Competition of 20 September 2018 by rejecting it. Against both decisions of the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition, Kapsch Telematic Services brought an action before the Regional Court in Brno at the same time as a proposal for a preliminary measure prohibiting the execution of a contract for the supply and provision of comprehensive services for the operation of the electronic toll system until the final termination of the action proceedings. Both proposals for interim measures were rejected by the Regional Court in Brno. In the first case, the Regional Court in Brno ruled that the decision of the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition was annulled and the case was returned to the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition for further proceedings. These are events now in 2019. The Ministry of Transport analysed this situation, stated that the contract is valid and effective, and lodged an appeal with the Supreme Administrative Court. At the same time, the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition has suspended the proceedings which the decision of the Regional Court in Brno concerned until the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. The case is therefore adjourned and awaits a decision before the Supreme Administrative Court. As far as today is concerned, the Regional Court in Brno today ruled on Kapsch's second action by granting the application and repealing the decision of the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition. In this case, the Ministry of Transport will also lodge an appeal with the Supreme Administrative Court, together with a motion to grant a suspensory effect on the appeal and a request for a prior hearing and a decision on this matter. So that's when it comes to today's decision. However, apart from the actions brought before the Regional Court in Brno, Kapsch brought an action before the District Court for Prague 1 to determine the absence of a legal relationship in relation to the alleged non-publication of a complete contract in the register of contracts. This is where the judgment is pending. In this way, Kapsch tries to reverse the outcome of the procurement procedure in which it succeeded in all possible means and ways. On the contrary, the Ministry of Transport, bound by its obligations, is doing its utmost to effectively defend the property interests of the Czech Republic in the collection of toll systems from 1 December 2019 and from 1. 1. 2020. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u102	Thank you. The Member will be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u103	Out of respect for the Minister, I will ask an additional question so that he can finish. Because my question was, how, who and where will be from 1. 1st of next year to pick a myth. I also lacked the police documented discussions of Mr.Faltýnek with the Director of the Office for the Protection of Competition. Because it also happened, and he took his own mandate, as he told us, and basically when the whole tender was going on, he was dealing with someone who was supposed to manage and regulate the tender in some way, so that it was consistent with the legal system. That means, in my opinion, the unauthorized system of the contracting authority's representative into the whole tender, and that makes me think it's all pretty much on the edge. But let others judge that, I'm not going to judge that now. I would not, however, compromise the decision of the Regional Court in Brno today. The Ministry will certainly take action, but I think the outcome is far from predictable. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u104	I ask the Minister if he's interested in answering an additional question. It does, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u105	Just for a very short time. It is not my place to evaluate the actions of law enforcement authorities. The criminal proceedings shall in principle not be public. Anyway, I'm not gonna comment on that. As regards who will choose the myth, as I said here, the effective treaty between the Czech Republic and SkyToll and CzechToll is valid. The Ministry of Transport is taking all steps to ensure that the toll system and toll are selected with this supplier from 1 December 2019. And when it comes to extended charging at one, it's going to be from 1. 1. 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u106	Thank you. And now, please, Mr Vácha, who will interpel Mrs Benešová on the replacement of the seats. Mr Profant will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u107	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I have continuously addressed all your predecessors when I was a Member in the matter of increasing the flat-rate compensation for the day of the sitting in court, which is currently only CZK 150 per day. It is important to note that it was last increased 23 years ago in 1996. I was the first to ask for help from Minister Válková, who replied that she was not considering an increase. Then I interviewed Minister Pelikán three times, and it was not until the fourth time during the oral interview that he promised me that he would try to add a flat-rate replacement to each of his fellows when he negotiated another budget. He then resigned and subsequently I intersected your predecessor, Minister Kněžínek, who also promised that if he did not cancel the seats, he would try to propose an increase. At present, this is a state budget, and I would ask you to focus on increasing these flat-rate compensations. I realize that in principle it is a substitute, that it is not a reward, that it is an honorable function. However, in most cases the amount of CZK 150 per day is no longer a substitute and can often be considered insufficient. So I would like to ask you about your opinion on both the Institute of Adjoinings and whether you would be willing to try to find funds in the budget to increase these compensations in cooperation with the right-to-come Minister of Finance. As I'm saying, it was last increased in 1996.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u108	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, this issue, I have recently dealt with it, so that the seats were originally to be cancelled according to the amendments that we are preparing. I am in favour of the fact that the layman is a member of the judiciary. More heads know more, and I've convinced myself many times in my life that common sense is very good in these cases. I pushed through, and I actually turned it around a little bit with my arrival because it was floating in the Ministry for the abolition of the seats, and I pushed for it to stay in the felonies and employment relations, in the labour disputes, in the seats. You're right that the money they're getting, and that's flat-rate compensation and reimbursement of the expenses they're spending nowadays, doesn't match the needs of the time, how many times they don't even have the fare for it. But I have to assure you, these people aren't doing it for money. They're heartbreakers, and they're more like experts who want to come among the people and not lose their erudists. So I recently dealt with the Union of Adjoiners, it's been about 14 days. They see it as primarily an honorable function. And, of course, we are suggesting in the future that they will raise the money, but unfortunately, and this will be confirmed by the secretary here, we have some cuts in budgets at the moment. The Justice Department, like the others, is minus ten percent, and I've got nothing to do with keeping the situation the way I'm supposed to. So it can't be expected to be next year, but it's projected to go up a little bit. We also have specific amounts there, as it should be paid. But, of course, it has to go through the next approval process, which I'm sure you'll understand is not possible today when we have a budget cut.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u110	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? It does, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u111	Well, thank you for your answer, too, for the promise that you'll try to increase. I would, then, if we had the Minister of Finance present, it wouldn't really be much money. [[The speaker continued his speech turned into government benches]] I feel like it would just be like ten, fifteen million crowns, because it's just 150 crowns for the pensioners and the non-profit-making ones. I'm not talking about compensation for lost profits. That means, if it were really just the 150 crowns, it would be in tens of millions in order, and I believe that our state budget would be able to bear this. And it hasn't been increased since 1996. So I believe that even if you add fifty, only symbolically fifty, it's an honorable function, but these people would perceive that even the state, in some way, appreciates the honorable function. Well, if you'll reconsider. I promise that if it doesn't happen this year, I won't let you and I'll bother you every year, like I've been doing all along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u112	Time, Mr. Ambassador. And I'd like to ask that we speak on the microphone. I know it's hard to interpel someone sitting behind you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u113	Well, I'm just gonna cut to the chase. So this year's budget is closed, so it's definitely not this year. I guess I'd be here promising if I promised. But next year, we'll try.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u114	So thank you and please Mr Profant, who will interpel Mrs Schillerová in the ARES 2.0 case for CZK 400 million. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u115	Dear Minister, in the financing plan of the Digital Czech Republic, which recently appeared in the eKLEP information system, the ARES 2.0 project, which is valued at CZK 400 million, appeared. The previous estimates were CZK 200 million. I'm very interested in where your ministry is taking this housenumer. This reminds me very much, for example, of the central register of administrative buildings, which is also one database table for hundreds of millions, which is still not used, as the SAO stated, etc. So it seems reasonable to you that such a relatively simple system costs such money and that your ministry is constantly increasing estimates of its price?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u116	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, well, we're going to talk about the Ares, because that's what you're asking, but because now the pressure has gone up a little bit when you're talking about the CRAB system, because you're obviously talking about something you don't know, Mr. Ambassador. Because the CRAB system, if I start with the CRABEM, you were talking about the Crab, weren't you? - central - so it is used to actually determine the state of administrative buildings and we already have over 60 percent of buildings in it today, where we are able to find out if it is used, how much rent it is, how many meters there are, how many workers, what passportization is, and because of it we are able to move authorities and save small money from the state. The SAO had reservations about this when he checked, but he had reservations that were sometimes... that I couldn't even agree with, because he had an opinion that there should be castles and locks, and we turned back that there was no administrative building. Well, just about the Crab, 'cause I think it was very unfair of you. And now to the Ares. ARES is an administrative register of economic entities, it is an information system that allows searching over economic entities registered in the Czech Republic and mediates, displays data kept in individual registers of state administration. The amount of CZK 400 million for the information system ARES, which was introduced in the Government Programme Digitalization of the Czech Republic 2018+, was determined on the basis of a qualified estimate of the variant, which included the acquisition of a completely new information system, so-called "green meadow," with the location in two data centres: the Treasury Centre for Shared Services and the Ministry of Finance Data Centre. However, a feasibility study, which contains two real solutions, was subsequently prepared. The first is a variant of basic modernisation with a maximum price of 60 million and the second option is a major modernisation with a maximum price of 212 million, which contains only two data centres. However, given the financial resources, the option is preferred, which contains the basic modernisation for which the financial amount of CZK 47,6 million is allocated between 2020 and 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u118	Thank you. Will the Member be interested in an additional question? Bud? [[Member Profant off the microphone: No, thank you.]] No, it won't, okay. In that case, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel Mrs Schillerová in the Financial Administration case in the courts. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u119	Madam Secretary, I have received statistics on the success of the Financial Administration in the courts as regards winning disputes with businessmen and companies. Last year's financial administration failed in 30 percent of cases. In terms of statistics converted to the value of disputes, the result is even more interesting. While in 2016 The financial administration won disputes worth CZK 4.5 billion and lost worth CZK 3 billion, so last year the ratio of winning and losing disputes was only 3.4 to 3.2 billion. Financial governance is clearly failing to thrive in the courts and is starting to lose more and more. Madam Secretary, how does the Financial Administration stop winning disputes in court? Does this tell us anything about the functioning of the Financial Administration, for example, that the quality and efficiency of the Office would deteriorate sharply? What measures are you planning not to continue this adverse trend? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u120	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, you are asking me about the increasing number of tax administration disputes and the increase in the number of disputes initiated, as well as the increase in the number of disputes lost. I read that article in the media that you're using. The Financial Administration, just for your information, responded to it immediately, I think it came out on Monday, and it's also located on the Financial Administration's website, where she set the numbers right. And I draw from this official Financial Administration report. Otherwise, in addition, I would like to say that the Financial Administration regularly publishes every year data relating to litigation in information on the activities of the Financial Administration that are going to the government. The report was discussed by the government, I believe, 14 days ago. The Ministry of Finance also informs the public and publishes summary information on this subject every year in reports on the activities of the Financial and Customs Administration. So I'm based on these sources in response to your interpellation. And I have to say that based on these hard numbers that I have from the Financial Administration - and you can track them down in these sources, or I will send them to you mediated when you are interested - I do not identify with the view that there would be an increase in the number of tax litigations. We can talk about the increase in the decision-making activities of the courts, but what about the number of actions is the current situation in 2019 compared to 2018 the same or slightly decreasing. Moreover, even if there were an increase in litigation, it should be noted that the number of disputes alone cannot in itself be assessed as a qualitative indicator of the activities of the Financial Administration. The fact that tax entities benefit from the rights of defence is positive and is evidence of the functioning of the rule of law. Moreover, it can then move us to various interpretational points of the courts, which are certainly interesting, and if it concerns the Supreme Administrative Court, it is also binding. The number of judicial disputes brought to an end does not fundamentally coincide. So the figures: 862 disputes were decided in 2018, 685 disputes were decided in 2017 and 683 disputes were decided in 2016, 399 claims were filed by tax entities in 2019 during the first half of the year, less 36 actions than for the first half of 2018. And now the fiscal dispute ratio between the Financial Administration and the tax entities. I'll take it from 2016. The success of the Financial Administration in 2016 was fiscally 4.6 billion, tax entities 3 billion.; in 2017 the success rate of Financial Administration was 2.4 billion, the success rate of the subjects was 2 billion.; in 2018 the success rate was 3.4 billion. and tax entities 3,2 billion. So, at first glance, it may seem that it has fallen against 2016 in the next years of success of the Financial Administration, but it cannot always be simply based on figures throughout the year, it is also necessary to know their composition. It was in this case that the figures were fundamentally influenced because actually of the amount of 4.6 billion. The koruna was 1.9 billion. the area completely out of business. In fact, these were contributions for breach of budgetary discipline, i.e. breach of the rules by the beneficiary of subsidies, so not typical tax disputes. If we had this amount of 4.6 billion. They cleared it by 1.9 billion. for this crucial case of budgetary discipline violated, so then it would be a value of 2.7 billion for the Financial Administration, and then that number line would look different, it would be 2.16, 2.7 billion, 2.4, 3.4, so it would actually be a fiscally increasing success of the Financial Administration. If we assess the data really comprehensively and with the knowledge of the entire agenda, which you cannot logically have from this article, which the Financial Administration is dealing with, we see that there has been no major fiscal deterioration in favour of the Financial Administration. Next, the fiscal data on successful actions and the contributions for breach of budgetary discipline and VAT are set out in the following table. I have the exact dates of the year since 2016, 2017, 2018, when the actions were rejected, of how much budgetary discipline was, how much this is based on VAT as a percentage. These are the numbers that speak, I would say, I can give you the material then, if you're interested, in the benefit of the Financial Administration. The VAT ratio, which is fiscally dominant tax, has been around 30% of the overall amount of the defendants' actions over the last three years, and, as mentioned above, a large impact has been shown in the contributions for breach of budgetary discipline, where this ratio was 45 per cent in 2016 and 24 per cent in the following years and 20 per cent in 2018 respectively. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] If you give me a chance, I'll tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u122	I'd like to ask the lady if she's interested in a follow-up question. He's interested, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u123	I'd be happy if you'd finish telling me, or if you can't make it, you can still tell me on the bench. Thank you so much in advance. You say that this does not have a fiscal impact on the financial administration, but the article states that the Financial Administration is more successful in those smaller cases up to 5 million, whereas tax entities in those larger cases with an order of 20, 30 million. And so it is expected that the damages in the event of loss will be high, and this document also states that there are cases in the courts where there are 24 billion overall. So we're going to follow up on the development, and in a year's time, we can ask how it's going to turn out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u124	Thank you. Madam Secretary will answer the additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u125	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll finish the story. The ratio of the number of successful actions in terms of tax entities - 479 was rejected in 2016 and 204 were granted, so the ratio is 30 per cent, in 2017 it was 499, it was 186, the ratio is 27 per cent and in 2018 571, it was accepted 291, the ratio is 33 per cent. So, as the table shows, the ratio of the number of successful actions from the point of view of tax entities oscillates around 30%, so what about the number of actions is not a major decline in success. Of course, I'd be happy to provide you with the basis. It's being watched, the report comes out every year, it's on the Financial Administration's website, you look it up on the Ministry of Finance's website, it goes to the government, so there's all the exact data - tables. And it cannot be completely flat-rate, you also have information about damages, because damages are, of course, in accordance with the Act on damages caused by the wrong decision of the public authorities, or by maladministration. Somehow, the subject must always prove where the damage was caused, so those cases are not so many in the finals and cannot be ploughed from the number of disputes that the compensation will be directly proportional to that. Of course, in addition to compensation for damage under this special law, if it is declared and the money paid by the tax entity is refunded, then the relevant interest, which is called from the culprit overpayment. So all of this information on interest, compensation for damages, on the number of actions you will find in detail in the Annual Financial Administration Report, which is on the pages of both the Financial Administration and the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u126	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Please, Mrs Maříková, who will intersect Minister Brabec on the matter of drought. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the Czech Republic and Europe are plagued by drought, which affects not only nature, which cannot resist pests, but also the lives of all of us. However, drought, heat, and floods are caused by our people, especially by drastic interventions in the soil and nature. On Monday, the government approved an amendment to the Water Act, which was drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. The state plans to set up committees to decide on drought measures, as with floods. In such a case, the Commission will be able to prohibit the authorised water collection or to order the owner of the water management facility to put it into operation. I find this measure not particularly commendable, as we are still dealing with only the consequences and not the cause. Landscape loses water and surface drainage. The water is a heat carrier to the earth's surface and to the upper atmosphere, but we took it out of cities and landscapes. If we want to solve the nature of the problem, then we have to return the water to the water cycle and let it flow into the green areas. Dear Minister, does your government also expect to change the legal conditions for farming and forest land rather than limit water consumption? I ask because over the last 18 years, more than 338 square kilometers of land have been built up. Unfortunately, we are spending a lot of money today on water retention in the countryside, but we are not solving the cause. And what specific competence will the commission have? Who's gonna choose the members, and who's gonna be on that committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u128	Thank you. There was quite a bit of time left. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the question, or the interpellation. I also thank you for staying with us in this afternoon, because as for singers it is cruel to sing in front of an empty hall, so we do not feel very well when we see this unfortunately disappearing interest and we, who perform after 15th place, are already confronted with the cruel disinterest of the audience. But despite all this, we're motivated to answer you. [[16.50 hours]] This is my favorite topic, my colleague, and you know it. First of all, I'd like to say that actually the cause of this situation here, and you know that, it's been developing for a hundred years. We've been taking water out of the country for a hundred years. For a hundred years, we've been trying to get the water out faster. And I have to say, we did it, not only after 1948, but also before, of course, because these hundred years may have been since Czechoslovakia. And perhaps the steps were already under Austria-Hungary, when it was simply believed that we would always have a lot of water, and it was the absolute priority of agricultural land, the drying of wetlands, the drying of ponds, and the transformation of the non-production area into a production area, so that we could cultivate more agricultural land. Of course these trends were highlighted later in the 1950s in connection with collectivization. But I would point out, they started about a hundred years ago. And we dried up a million hectares of wetland over 100 years. That's a huge amount. I began to deal with drought as, I dare say, one of the first ministers in 2014 and since then we have done literally thousands of concrete water retention projects in the country. So it's kind of a shortcut to say that we're dealing with the consequences and not the causes. It is, of course, a matter of crisis management to address the consequences, because today we are faced with a situation where drinking water is becoming a problem in hundreds of municipalities, especially smaller municipalities, with supplies. This is something that we need to address first and foremost. But, of course, we're simultaneously dealing with the causes. We're changing the landscape. And I'll be glad if you ever find the time and we can look at the many concrete measures we've taken in the country. Of course, the Ministry of the Environment has long supported landscape elements, which means returning water to the landscape by building hundreds or even thousands of smaller water tanks. It is said about the dams, but here they have reconstructed or restored, or created hundreds of new ponds, pools, landscape elements, draw. And it's something that also helps us in terms of combating erosion. These are things that, of course, are connected. That means there are really concrete measures that are many. But I have to say hard, inertia is just big. It is large and impossible, and experts will say that it will take decades for water to really return to the Czech landscape. However, in concrete projects, we do this in the smaller ones, and I think we are doing it successfully. Last week I was two days, like almost every week on some kind of exit, I was in South Moravia. There we could beautifully see how quickly and well the measures in the landscape that we are financing from the Operational Programme Environment or the National Programme are working. In 2015, an amendment to the Law on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund was adopted. There was a huge debate about this in Parliament - not only in the House, but also in the Senate. And some measures, regulatory measures on agricultural land holdings proposed by the Ministry of the Environment, were mitigated in the legislative process by municipalities, cities, regions, etc., because they were interested in continuing construction in a certain way in order to maintain public interest there. From their point of view, it's logical. We found some kind of compromise. By coincidence, yesterday I spoke with the largest experts of pedologists in the Czech Republic, with whom we dealt with the next course of anti-erosion decrees. We'd like that anti-erosion decree to be on the table by the end of the year. I'm running out of time. If you give me a chance, I'll be happy to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u130	Time. Please. The Member will be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would still ask you, Minister, if you could answer the question about the committees. Furthermore, I wonder if cities and municipalities were given some methodical instruction on how to deal with the current situation, because they complain of course that in the summer months they were plagued by the heat. But I don't think they realize at all that one tree corresponds to about ten air conditionings, and on the other hand, for every cut tree, we have 280 kilowatt hours of solar heat that heats up instead. And the solar energy that would be consumed into herpes turns into heat. And some cities just mow down the grass, cut down trees and pave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u132	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for a refill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u133	You're right. And, of course, there are a number of methodological guidelines. It's just about changing the city leadership thinking. But today I see that it's changing quite quickly, because we recently released a kind of, let's say, it wasn't even an official methodical instruction, it was more like a recommendation not to do grass completely, as you say, on the dirt. It caused a big reaction in the Czech Republic. It's been discussed. Dozens, literally dozens of mayors have written or called us and advised us how to do it. So it triggered the debate. We have the same thing with the trees, with the felling of the trees. I've been responding here today to an interpellation by a fellow Zahradník about our 10 million trees. We're just doing the best we can, not just legislatively, but factually, we're going to hundreds of municipalities and we're really trying to spread the awareness that water and trees are the highest public interest. It's not easy, but I see a huge change in people's minds. I'm gonna answer those committees real quick. The amendment to the Water Act, which will soon be in the House, I assume it will arrive here in September, assumes the emergence of 14 regional commissions and one central committee. The president will always hold the commission at the level of the county and other members then... or the governor of the county appoints from the employees of the county who have this competence, virtually. who are in charge of these things. There will be relevant water catchment managers or their representatives, representatives of the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute, Police, Fire Rescue Corps, Regional Hygiene Station. There will be representatives of water companies involved as significant water users. The Governor may then appoint other members of the commission who may no longer have the right to vote, but they may be able to help with some advice. The board... Sorry. [[Attention on time.]] See you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u134	I also thank Mr Michálek, who will interpel Mrs Benešová on the completion of the register of final owners. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Minister, Dear Government, fellow Members, I would like to ask the Minister how the register of final owners works, one of the anti-corruption instruments that has been introduced in the last few years. I was informed that only about 16 percent of the entities provided the information as to who the final owner of the legal entity was. This indicates that the instrument is virtually not working at all and that its enforcement is zero, even though it is an instrument that the European Union is imposing on us and which is to be united within the European Union. So my first question is on fulfillment and what steps the Ministry is taking to ensure that the register is filled, let's say how it coordinates this activity with the relevant administrator. And secondly, I want to ask you how false information cases are dealt with in this register. For example, try to go to the registry, who is the ultimate owner of UNILES, if it is Agrofert, which it cannot, because the final owner is a natural person, or if they are the lawyers of Andrej Babiš, or who it is. And three. We all know that the public register already works in Slovakia. So why don't we have a public register yet? Why hasn't the government brought it up yet? I mean, the government has to respect that there's a term from the directive, out of 5. The AML Directive, which is until January 2020. And for us to pass the law by January 2020, we really can't make it if the Ministry of Justice doesn't submit it until autumn. It just can't be done. So I'm wondering what condition this implementation 5 is in. The AML Directive and, if necessary, the 6th Directive. AML guidelines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u136	Thank you for keeping the time, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u137	Dear Members, you have asked a number of questions, so I would like to state the following. The number of entities in the commercial register affected by the obligation to register the beneficial owner is currently 522 491. The number of registered persons in the Commercial Register that have registered their beneficial owner is 118 731. The level of registration could therefore appear to be insufficient at first sight. However, the data provided cannot be interpreted without some essential facts being supplied to them. The Ministry first estimates that approximately 10 percent of legal entities registered in the Commercial Register form so-called inactive empty trading corporations. Because of such a large number of inactive commercial corporations, the government is currently proposing to introduce a simplified procedure for their abolition without liquidation within the House press 207, an amendment to the Commercial Corporations Act. At the same time, it should be noted that the highest number, about 466 000 persons registered in the Commercial Register, constitutes limited liability companies. Of these, the vast majority are companies with one or a few partners. With these without further chains, there is a small probability that the real owner could be someone other than the one who is registered as a partner in the Commercial Register. Therefore, further to this point, we are planning to substantially reduce their administrative burden for these legal entities in the future and, at the same time, ensure registration of data on their beneficial owner. The available data cannot be perceived in isolation due to the purpose and purpose of the existing registration. However, the issue of combating money laundering falls within the Gesture of the Ministry of Finance, namely the Financial Analytical Office. In detail, I therefore recommend contacting these institutions. The legal situation should change substantially after the adoption of the new Act on registering the beneficial owners, which the Ministry sent out 27. 6. t. r. to inter-ministerial commentary procedure. He already has to reflect the requirements of the new so-called. 5. AML Directive of 2018. First of all, she doesn't see the real owner's institute in close association with the fight against money laundering. Rather, it should be an attribute of the general transparency of legal entities. For example, the actual owner of a limited liability company shall automatically be entered in the register of beneficial owners by a natural person who has been entered in the Commercial Register as a shareholder with a share of more than 25 per cent. This should, of course, not prevent the registered person from making a separate deviant entry in accordance with the actual situation. If they do not do so, it will be possible, unless something else becomes apparent, to base on the status given by the automatic registration of data from the Commercial Register. Well, maybe I gave you a little answer, just like you asked. And if you want any details, I can, of course, trace them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u138	Thank you. Will the Member be interested in an additional question? It will be. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u139	Thank you for the floor and thank the Minister for the answers to the questions. So I wanted to ask when this is going to be realized, because it already seems that the Czech Republic will not meet the deadline in January 2020. Because if this proposal is to be submitted in autumn, given how long the legislative process of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, etc. takes, I'm afraid the Ministry has fallen asleep a little bit in the preparation of this proposal. And with regard to those enforcement actions, I consider there to be an unsatisfactory answer in the sense that there is a need to put forward some real mechanisms that will lead to some mechanisms to ensure that the information is consistent with reality. If we just do the automatic signage and there's no real effective motivation, it won't fit the requirements of the directive, and in particular it won't make any real sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u140	Thank you. Madam Secretary will answer the additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u141	It's just, if the D.O.D. can make it, we have to make it. Remember, the minister's been changed, and it's delayed a little bit, but we have a meeting tomorrow, and we're gonna check it out again, all these priority projects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u142	Thank you and now please Mr Blaha, who will interpel the Minister Kremlík on first-class road charging. Mrs Kozlová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u143	Dear Minister, in less than five months, the selection of the myth with the new operator will begin. From Mr. Took, but especially from Prime Minister Babiš, we have often heard that this is a huge success. Honestly, I don't think so. Until now, we have almost no information on how this is going to go down. I therefore want to ask for the mayors, the captains, and all the others involved in this matter for a very important matter: Where will the myth be chosen? I am the mayor of Uherský Hradiště, a city affected by intensive transport, paralyzed by unfinished highways and bypasses. Cities that pass important roads between Brno and Trencin. A section through our city is alternately appearing and disappearing on the charging map. I'd like to know, and I'm not the only one here. And I'm not just speaking for Hungary's Hradiště. Colleagues from the Pilsen Region, the Hradec Králové Region, for example, want to know. Last May, you weren't here again, my colleague Ivan Adamec asked you. Everyone wants to know where and how to choose a myth. Prime Minister Babiš and Ex-minister Ťok a zero tariff on all the roads of the first classes to the generals, the mayors and the president as well. They even signed a memorandum with the regions and municipalities in October last year. Since spring of this year, however, various combinations and possibilities of where or not to apply on these sections have begun to emerge. Last time you denied the zero fee report. I quote: "We cannot avoid spreading the myth on other first-class roads. The zero rate would call the tender into question." And right after that, you called a task force, which can be interpreted as a matter of discussion and nothing is decided. [[Time warning]] I'm reminding you of the crazy five months before the whole operation starts. [[Attention on time.]] So, Minister, what's it gonna be and who's gonna decide, and especially when? Sorry for the slight drag.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u144	Please release the minister. Minister, I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u145	Dear Member, thank you for the interpellation. Dear Members, honourable Members, I would like to make a statement. I have already described the legal situation, the legal position of the Ministry of Transport, the legal position of the Office for the Protection of Competition. These are the facts that determine in a significant way the next course of myth. I have said repeatedly that I do not want and will not endanger the interests of the Czech Republic in any way that should lead to the challenge of competition and to the challenge of the concluded contract which the Ministry of Transport considers to be valid and effective. So I would like to say: As of 1 January 2020, there will be an extension of the first-class road charging by about 900 kilometers. This extension of the performance-paid first-class roads will be implemented in accordance with the Czech Government resolution No. 1 000 of 7 November 2016 on the concept of road charging of the Czech Republic and the contract for the supply and provision of comprehensive services for the operation of the electronic toll system concluded on 20 September 2018 between the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Transport and CzechToll companies, s. r. o., SkyToll, a. s. I will reiterate that today's judicial decision does not change the fact that the treaty is valid and effective and obliges both parties. [[17.10 hours]] The electronic toll system will thus be launched on 1 December 2019 on the current range of road tolls - approximately 1 242 kilometres of motorways and 234 kilometres of first-class roads - and on 1 January 2020 on the extended range of road charges, which constitute the approximately 900 kilometres of first-class roads. I must say that the Ministry of Transport has always followed the government's resolutions, the output of which is the extension of the first-class power-charged roads of 900 kilometres in question. The selection of these roads has been assessed in accordance with the said Government resolution, both by the parties to the intensity of heavy goods vehicles and by the cost parties to the introduction of the power charge on them. Newly charged first-class roads were selected in 2016 and their list was part of the procurement terms of the procurement procedure, so this information is known and is known since 2016. On the basis of this, a new electronic toll system is now supplied and will be operated from 1 December 2019. It is indisputable that the state as the first-class road owner has the opportunity to decide which of the roads it owns will be charged with tolls. The list of road tolls, i.e. motorways and first-class roads, is the contents of Annex Nos 1 and 2 of the Road Use Order, charged with tolls, the amendment of which is currently in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. In view of the concerns of municipalities and regions about the first class of newly charged roads, I set up a working group to charge first class roads, whose first meeting took place yesterday, on Wednesday 10 July 2019, in which are representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Interior, State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, Directorate of Transport Police Services, Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, Association of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, Association of Local Government and Association of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic. During the first meeting of the Working Group, the possibility of preventing or eliminating possible circumvention of transit goods parties and the possibility of compensation from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure was presented. The next meeting of this working group following negotiations in individual regions will be in mid-August this year. I would perhaps mention one more thing - what we discussed within this working group. Of course, we said, or we discussed individual points or topics. One of them was how to prohibit or limit transit freight transport on twos and threes, together with the traffic police we discussed in detail the timetables, procedures and mutual cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior, Vice-President of the Government, Mr Hamáček, traffic police, individual regions. We agreed that individual regions would be selected for the next meeting of the working group of individual sections, which could be toured, and there, in cooperation with the police at the level of the regions, will be given traffic restrictions, traffic signs. At the same time, with the participation of the representatives of the SFDI, we also discussed other ways in which the situation in relation to municipalities and regions could be compensated. One of the things that has been discussed is the construction programs of high-speed control scales on twos, on threes, of course after the construction programs or the reconstruction of cycle paths, lanes. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u146	I ask the honourable Member if he will ask an additional question. Please hurry this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u147	I'll probably be shorter this time. It is clear to me, of course, that the minister here is reaping the fruits of his predecessor's work, but what about the promises to the regions, the municipalities, what about the signed memoranda? You're going back to the charge that was part of the tender. Of course, it is clear to me that a zero charge would be to thwart the extent of the competition, because it is not possible to compete with a first-class road toll and then charge it at a zero rate. I'm sure that's a waste of resources. But what about the vows?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u148	I beg the Minister if he answers an additional question. It will be. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u149	I'm just very brief. I think that the substance of the matter was addressed by Mr Blaha himself, who stated that there are, of course, problems in the event of a change in the conditions that cannot be changed at present. We, of course, were in the working group when we met yesterday, discussing whether it would be possible to expand and include in that list some other communications, ones, just parallel, which would be bypassed. We agreed that this would be possible, but we want to have some time. We want to evaluate the situation. If there are certain excesses, we are, of course, ready to expand these lists in half a year after the start of January 1, 2019, but we want to see one year of testing, try, and see if the traffic intensity really leads to bypassing. We, as the Department of Transport, do not think that there should be such a strong bypass as is presented in the media. It is based on the average rate per kilometre, which is based in the order of 2 crowns - 1.96 crowns per kilometre, if my information from my colleagues is correct. So we're preparing to launch. We are doing everything we can to compensate the regions, municipalities, to deal with it together, and that is why we are meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u150	Thank you and I will now ask Mrs Kozlová, who will intersect Minister Kremlík on the Olbram bypass. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u151	Thank you for the floor. I mean, Minister, as a Member of the Central Bohemia Region, who knows what traffic looks like in the passage of Olbramovice, and I wonder how it would help to bypass here, I ask you if you know what happened around this building, and I am interested in your response to the current situation when the Ministry of Building Authorisation returned the Regional Authority to discuss it. The bypass for nearly half a billion received a building permit in 2018 and appealed against it, among other things, IMOBA from the trust fund of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. There wouldn't have been anything to ask if IMOBA hadn't sold land to the State three years before on preferential terms. According to the contract, it collected CZK 3.7 million from the Road and Motorway Directorate and sold the land only four months after the new law came into force, which was passed by the then government with Andrej Babiš as Minister of Finance. Another part of my question concerns the interaction of the Ministry of Transport with the region. Why are not these institutions able to communicate so as not to waste the forces and time of officials and the patience of the people, but, above all, the taxpayers' money and the ministry did not have to return the intention of the region due to procedural errors? Among other things, the Ministry's report mentions, among the errors of the regional authority, the misdelivery of the document or the keeping of the file contrary to the administrative rules. Dear Minister, would you like to make amends? [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u152	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make this statement. As regards the bypass of Olbramovic, the Ministry of Transport on 3 July 2019 on the basis of an appeal, the resolution of the Transport Department of the Central Bohemia Region of 30 August 2018 by which the decision of the Regional Authority of 30 January 2017 was corrected and the construction of the I/3 Olbramovice was authorised has been cancelled. At the same time, the decision was annulled and the matter was returned to the Regional Authority for renegotiation. That's a law-abiding procedure. When the Department of Transport found lawlessness, it had to cancel the decision. If the decision had not been annulled and the appellants failed, it is reasonable to assume that the appellants would have exercised their rights and would have gone to court. And do you want a trial that would take, like, six months, like a year, to lead to the same result as now? Definitely not. Our officials at the Ministry of Transport are bound by legal regulations and are acting according to them. As part of its procedure, the Ministry of Transport examined more than 60 objections, 60 objections from seven different entities that appealed to the decision of the Regional Authority, both natural persons and legal persons who formed the municipality of Olbramovice and two companies. A total of twenty-four objections to the building permit were raised by DAVO Corporation, a. s., by other dozens of objections submitted by individuals from Olbramovic residents. Three objections were raised by the municipality of Olbramovice itself and only one objection was raised by the company that you mentioned here and which is referred to in the media as the entity that was supposed to lead to the annulment of an illegal building permit. So only one objection. [[17.20 hours]] In the decision of the Regional Authority, the Ministry of Transport found a number of inaccuracies and procedural errors in the conduct of the relevant proceedings. It must have responded. The Regional Authority, for example. has not demonstrated compliance with the statutory time limit for service by public decree, has not kept the relevant file in accordance with the administrative rules. Furthermore, the participants were not aware of the addition of the file before the decision was taken or were not supplied with the relevant documents at all. Do you think, honourable Member, that the Ministry of Transport could have acted differently? The reasons why the building permit was revoked were as follows: The Regional Authority did not deliver all documents to all parties. For example, he did not deliver through the official plate of the Votice Municipal Authority, although the construction plan concerns the cadastral territory of Votice. The Regional Authority delivered the documents incorrectly respectively. contrary to the administrative rules. For example, it delivered a delivery instead of in its own hands, which means that it was delivered to a person other than the party to the proceedings. The Regional Authority has not demonstrated compliance with the legal time limits for delivery by means of a public decree on the official records of the Regional Authority and the Municipal Authority Olbramovice. The first notice of initiation of the construction procedure was different from those of the builder. The issue of the second notice of initiation of the same construction procedure was not justified, which entails the considerable uncertainties of the parties to the construction project and the conduct of the construction procedure. Building permits are inadequate or have not dealt with objections at all. The settlement of objections is as unreviewable as the entire building permit. The file was filed in breach of the administrative order and was not complete at the same time. The participants were not aware of the addition of the file before the decision was taken. The main doubts are the version of the project documentation which was the basis for the decision. Some objections could not be settled because they referred to documents which were not at all the contents of the file, etc. On the basis of the above, the Ministry of Transport concluded that the construction permit was issued by the Regional Authority in breach of the law and was therefore annulled in the appeal proceedings and the case was returned for a renegotiation in which the Regional Authority is obliged to follow the legal opinion of the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Transport therefore said how the Regional Authority should proceed, by legal opinion, by standard procedure according to the relevant procedural regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u154	Thank you. Will the Member be interested in an additional question? It won't. In that case, we will move forward, and I beg Mr Zahradník, who will interpel Mr Toman on the threat of bark calamity in Boubín. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to read an interview on the absent Minister of Agriculture as a call for the Ministry to do something. In the forest plant Boubín, which is managed by the Forests of the Czech Republic, is today attacked by about 9.5,000 cubic meters of wood. This wood matter must be extracted and recovered as soon as possible. Only in this way can it be possible to prevent possible barking calamity in this part of the Sumava Mountains. However, it prevents the selection procedure and its method, which is very lengthy and does not take into account the possibility of this calamity. Thus, before it starts at all after completing all the procedural steps in the selection of the supplier, the bark can fly out and attack other plants in this very valuable part of southern Bohemia and Sumava. So my question is how the Ministry will deal with this situation, and at the same time I'm calling on it to deal with it as quickly as possible. And I have a subject, if the Minister would not have considered the idea of initiating an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, so that such situations could not continue to occur. Here sits Minister Brabec. The information is even wider. On the forest section Strážný in the Šumava National Park there are 500 cubic meters of attacked trees, which are about to fly out of the skin. So it's in the natural zone. So again, my question would be, if I could, how do they want to deal with it? We just have to stop and brake the barking calamity whenever possible whenever possible, whenever possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u156	I also thank you, and the Minister will respond to your interpellation within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And now, please, Mr Luzar, who will interpel Mr Petříček on the issue of the neighbourly rapprochement with Bavaria. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u157	Thank you. Dear absent Minister of Foreign Affairs, allow me to ask you, in the context of the reply received from my fellow Member, the Final Member, in which you speak, that the participation of the Czech Ambassador at the Sudeton German Landsmanšaft corresponds to the current line of neighbourly convergence of the Czech Republic with the Free State of Bavaria, so that you can provide me with this drawing line in writing. Secondly, in order to define the relationship between the Czech Republic and Sudeton German landsmanšaft, that is, as the Czech Republic perceives this organization in the context of foreign policy, as it opposes it and what is the position of Czech foreign policy towards Sudeton German landsmanšaft as an organization, I do not mean now in relation to Bavaria. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the so-mentioned amendment to the statutes of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, which was to take the right out of these statutes for the Sudeten Němec, is not exactly as declared by many speakers because it was not accepted by all the participants of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, as ordered by Section 33 of this Association. For example, Witikobund, a rather radical to fascist organization founded by former SS officers, which strongly claims the rights of the Němec in the Czech Republic and requires the right to land and property back, made it clear in 2018, when they wrote to the Bavarian Prime Minister that it simply was not done this way and the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft as such in that comprehensive union, when everyone must decide not accept such a resolution, and they continue to demand a clear declaration by Bavaria... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u158	I also thank you and the Minister will answer your question in writing within 30 days. And now, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will intersect Minister Brabec in the matter of the sneaker dump, and Mr Michálek will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u159	Dear Minister, between the municipality of Chrášťany and the municipality Chane is located illegal landfill of soil. It took 25 years to pick up this dump illegally. Picnicity is that the company that was picking up the soil was picking up the land of foreign owners. This company made hundreds of millions of crowns, owners have to pay property tax. Indeed, hundreds of millions of tons have been picked up. The culprits who founded the landfill were brought to justice and justly condemned after years. Unfortunately, this illegal landfill has remained in place for land owners, it is a kind of monument that remains there, and the removal of the soil is not really possible, because what has been loaded in 25 years is not possible to go anywhere, and it would cost billions of crowns probably. I wanted to ask if it would be possible to start dealing with the municipalities of Chýn and Chrášťany, possibly. with landowners, and try to use the state somehow to bail out this landfill, because it threatens the surrounding area and may occur some kind of disaster. And then they would be responsible for the damage to those owners who weren't really responsible for the soil being brought there. So I would like to ask: Would it be possible to enter into negotiations to see if this landfill would in any way be remedial? I think it would be a good example, because such landfills are all over the Czech Republic and the municipalities that have them on the territory do not know what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u160	Thank you for keeping the time precise, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u161	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for the interview. I know the situation, I'm from Kladeňák, so I'm relatively close to the Chrášťany. I've been there several times, it's a really modern mountain Říp, which has been able to climb there in that time, and it is, I must say, a sad reflection of the former functioning of our law. Now, maybe it'd be a little better, a little faster, how long it took before there was any hit. [[17.30 hours]] I will deliberately use - and I don't want to say anything, but I will deliberately use the term "not a dump," because it's not a dump, that's the problem. It's de iure actually a waste recovery facility. I use that legislative concept deliberately to clarify the nature of the facility. Then it's kind of a bridge to explain why it's complicated. 'Cause even though the sandbox dump is often called a landfill, she's not really a dumpster in the sense of the Waste Act. This is important because, in many respects, stricter rules apply to this type of equipment than to landfills. In particular, it is not possible to use hazardous or otherwise hazardous waste in them and there are also stricter limits for contaminants. These facilities are mainly used for excavation earths and other waste from buildings and demolitions. From the point of view of legislation in the waste field, it was therefore a legal facility whose operation was notified to the Regional Authority, but, as you said exactly, it was already in effect after 1988, when it was originally a reclamation of the old municipal waste dump, it was later that the operator of the facility began to take up other land on which it had no right to use it. It was subsequently dealt with by the Regional Court, the annulment became legal in August 2015. In fact, since then, the device has been operated illegally. Czech environmental inspection, which you may also know, has repeatedly issued a decision on the violation of the law, which ultimately resulted in a penalty of CZK 5 million. At the same time, the Czech Environmental Inspectorate also handed over the complaint to the Police of the Czech Republic, which subsequently banned the operation of the equipment from April 2017 and subsequently led to criminal prosecutions, as you also said, to the granting of conditional sentences for the head of the building office in Hostivice and for the operator of the facility. And now - the current state of the facility and any reclamation is difficult from the point of view of the Ministry of the Environment, because by not being a landfill, we cannot use any provisions of the Waste Act in terms of reclamation, so it is also complicated to use actually any funds from the European programme, i.e. from the European Operational Programme Environment, as well as national money. But we consulted because it was not the only case, as you rightly said, in the territory of the Czech Republic, unfortunately, such cases have increased throughout the Republic and some others are also in Central Bohemia. This means, from the point of view of lawyers, it is a violation of legislation in the field of construction law and the means provided by this legislation should be used to remedy the current situation. In particular, it is § 135 para. 2 and 3 of the construction law, which says that the construction office will order the owners of the construction of necessary safety works if the construction of their technical condition threatens the health and lives of persons or animals or if it is not necessary to remove it immediately. In this case, such a construction is very likely, but the owner of the construction is the operator of the installation. And, of course, the operator of that facility is the question of whether it has the resources to secure the construction. We in general work on tightening the conditions for a similar type of waste facility. One of those measures that has already been taken is the prohibition on the use of unprocessed construction and demolition waste in this type of facility. Second, more stringent monitoring of similar environmental impact assessment projects, i.e. the EIA. And other measures will be taken as part of the approval of the new waste bill, which will reach the House in the autumn, and we will definitely discuss it. But now - we are not resisting any negotiations - we would not have any specific offer for the mayors of the municipalities in terms of our programmes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u162	The honourable Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u163	Thank you for your answer, Minister. As you know, the situation is really unbearable. It was caused by someone from whom the municipalities and owners will really take nothing. The landfill was, or the soil was weighed on the basis of a 1988 decision on field modifications. So absolute nonsense. We can't even use the section of the Building Act because it wasn't a building. Of course, I would ask you to be able to contact the mayor and find a solution that may not be within the horizon of the year, but maybe two years. Find some solution, because otherwise there will be some real misfortune. And in this case neither the municipalities nor the owners can bail out such a territory. It's just unbearable. So I'm asking for your help again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u164	Thank you. The Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u165	I'm sure I don't give up on trying to accommodate you at all. I just can't promise any kind of light at the end of the tunnel with the specific funds. But my colleagues and I will talk about it again. Because I say again, it is not the only case within the Czech Republic and we are trying in some way to grasp it in a legislative way, because this was some kind of hole that some of the good guys used, and naturally they threw it at the state. And it's actually taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u166	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr Michálek, who will interpel Mrs Schillerová on simplifying the creation of accounts for entrepreneurs. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u167	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, Dear Government, I wanted to ask about the current state of affairs of the project - I was included in a working group within the Ministry, which was in charge of the idea of simplifying the obligations of entrepreneurs so that they did not have to set up accounts twice, once a tax administration and once on justice.cz, i.e. courts. So we put together some material, there was some negotiation to do it, then somehow it fell asleep, it got into several conceptual documents. I would like to ask when this will be realized.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u168	Thank you for your short question, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u169	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen. As far as your question is concerned, I'm not going to repeat it, you've made it quite clear here. So, in order to simplify the removal of duplicates for the creation of accounts in the Commercial Register last year, a working group was actually established under the guidance of the relevant employee of the Czech Ministry of Finance, it was Dr. Bauer from Department 28. This working group submitted material in December 2018 stating that the implementation of the financial statements will be carried out from 2022 onwards, i.e. for the 2021 tax period, through the Financial Administration, but only for those entities that request and submit the DAP, including the electronic accounts. Its subsequent implementation will be addressed by the new working group at the GFŘ, and I will now tell you the basic assumptions of the discussed variant. The basic assumptions of the discussed variant are thus as follows: The possibility of publishing financial statements through the Financial Administration will only concern electronic submissions which are submitted in a sound machine-readable format and structure. It will be tax entities that charge under Decree 500/2002 for entrepreneurs. Secondly, the tax entity will not be obliged to use this service, but an option on the basis of a standardised application, which will be part of the corporate tax return. The accounts - thirdly - will still remain part of the tax return. Fourthly, from the Accounting Act, we can also send out prepared financial statements for publication, see Section 21a para. 1 Act on Accounting in conjunction with § 21a para. 3 of the Accounting Act. However, for audited financial statements, it must be known whether these are audited financial statements. And the registry court will need to agree on the form and structure of the data transmitted, which is being worked on. This will not ensure the fulfilment of the Charter collections at 100 per cent, because there is a voluntary requirement, but it can be expected to cover most cases, because the greater discipline of accounting units to fill the Collection would encourage the revision of the published data in the Commercial Register, which is appropriate to include in the joint deliberations of this Working Group. I'll take the liberty of saying the scheduled timetable. The time frame for the implementation referred to was set for 2022 for the financial statements foreseen with a tax return for 2021. And the reasons for defining this time frame - it will be part of the My Tax portal project, or modernization of the tax portal. The timetable for modernisation is set for the first phase at the end of 2020. In view of the priorities of the first phase modernisation project, it is clear that the publication of the financial statements will be included in the second phase, i.e. it is intended for 2021-2020. The advance implementation would mean an inefficient spending of funds to adapt existing forms. Furthermore, legislative adjustments are envisaged to ensure the competence of the Financial Administration for sending these data to the Commercial Register, including proposed legislative changes in relation to the revision of the published data, and we need some space for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u170	Thank you. Ambassador, would you be interested in a response, a follow-up question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u171	Thank you for the floor. Well, he's not a question, he's more of a sigh. Everything takes so long in that state. So that it would not be until that year 2022, in the next parliamentary term, I thought that there would be any tangible outcome in this area after the working group at the end of the parliamentary term. So I suppose if it gets into some big package that's related to the legislative changes to the My Tax project, in a year, I'll ask, two years from now, if it's moved on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u172	Madam Secretary will be interested in an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u173	Once you're in executive employment, Mr. Ambassador - I'm so happy for you - you'll find out what the elbow is. [[Smile]] And that's good now, I'm not attacking you at all. And that I'm just gonna be happy if by the end of my term - and I already have my first office, if it's in the middle of 2020, I'm gonna have my first phase. That's more important to me. That electronic filing of tax returns, that's what matters to me, too, but I have to decide on the priorities. So I'm not making excuses, but one day you'll know. And I really don't mean it badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u174	Thank you. And now, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will intersect Minister Kremlík on the matter of road safety. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u175	Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interpellation on road safety. Unfortunately, statistics are relentless. The number of traffic accidents is rising year after year. Last year there were over 104,000. Last year also increased the number of accidents resulting in deaths. To date, more than 52,000 accidents have been reported, and we still have a busy end to summer and, of course, autumn, in which the number of accidents is also higher. Thus, it does not seem that the number of accidents has decreased in 2019. Dear Minister, how is it that we are unable to reduce the number of accidents? Can we somehow reverse this trend? What measures is the Ministry of Transport planning to increase road safety and thus reduce the number of accidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u176	I, too, thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u177	Mr President, Madam Members, honourable Members, the remaining Members, the honourable public. As far as road safety is concerned, I note for the Ministry of Transport that it is undoubtedly a priority of the government and is also one of the areas that I have focused on immediately after taking up the Ministry. From a long-term perspective, the number of road accidents victims has been gradually reduced. In 2017, we achieved historically the lowest number of victims on the roads. However, the trend was negative in 2018. 565 victims - year-on-year increase 163. Most notably, vulnerable traffic participants, especially motorcyclists, have signed up for the increase in the number of victims. The activity aimed at reducing the number of victims and severe injuries in road accidents is governed by a government approved by the National Road Safety Strategy, which is tasked not only with the Ministry of Transport but also with other departments, regions, cities and other entities. In the area of prevention, the Ministry of Transport, through the Regional Coordinators of BESIP, has addressed more than 700 thousand at events in the regions. people, which accounts for about 7 percent of the population. vloni year, BESIP ran a campaign with the Czech Insurance Association Killing carelessness, which warns against using a mobile phone behind the wheel. According to an assessment of the campaign, 70 percent of the population recorded at least one of the preventive spots. That's proof that the Department of Transport is acting. The Ministry of Transport also produced last year campaigns to create an alley for paramedics and risk situations on the motorcycle. Perhaps many of you have seen these spots. In the main news, the aisle's most watched TVs were seen about 5 miles away. spectators. The risk situation on the motorcycle in the news and social networks recorded about 2 million. People. This year, that means in 2019, BESIP is running a campaign in Prague Do not jump under my bike, warning against the collision of pedestrians with tram. It finances safe driving courses in regions. Like BESIP every year, the Young Cyclist's transport competition is attended by approximately 30 thousand. primary school children. Since July, TV stations have been running spots that resemble safe behaviour in traffic restrictions. In August, a motorcycle safety campaign will be launched and a campaign aimed at the carelessness of pedestrians due to telephone and earphones. In September, a campaign to draw attention to the risks of bad-eye management. Here are some examples of the campaigns we're preparing. There is then a continuously updated map of traffic restrictions on the way to the Adriatic Sea. In the field of the legislative Ministry of Transport has prepared an amendment to the Act on Traffic on Roads, which responds precisely to a number of risk factors on roads. The penalties for holding a phone are tightened, speeding high, driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs, or running away from an accident. The aim is also to improve drivers' awareness of the status of their point account. Perhaps you, honourable Members, were at a workshop on this matter which took place approximately one month ago at the Ministry of Transport when I wanted to hear the public's views on such a prepared change in the point system. However, road safety affects a number of factors. Human factor, fleet status, infrastructure quality, police supervision, etc. It is therefore important to strengthen coordination of operational safety activities. That is why I have renewed the activities of the Council of Government on Road Safety. At the meeting on 27 June, the Council set specific tasks for its members, including proposing measures to improve the situation by the end of 2020. I would like to say that the last meeting of this Council took place four years ago. The original Council had 25 members, on the basis of the Government's decision of 29 April 2019 fifteen members. We wanted the board to be really functional, to meet, to work. I also opened up the preparation of a new BESIP strategy for the decade 2021 to 2030 and involved all members of this board in the preparatory action. Isn't that enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u178	Thank you. Will the Member be interested in an additional question? It will be. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u179	Thank you for your answer. I have the answer to your question. Of course it's not enough. But, of course, there are other measures involved. I think it is the bypasses of municipalities and cities that should therefore be built. My point, of course, is that the Ministry of Transport has revoked the building permit to build a bypass around Olbramovic, for which citizens have been waiting 30 years. I think the question fell several times today. Of course, what we have from the media seems incredible to us what is happening to this bypass. That it takes so long and, in addition, against the background of the Ministry's compliance with the complaints of companies belonging to Agrofert - of course, they were one of the complainants - who at an increased price sold their land for the construction of the bypass and then complained about it or protested. Of course I don't understand. Can you just repeat the reasons for the cancellation, please? [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u180	Thank you. And please the Minister, if he's interested in responding. It does, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u181	Just two notes, then. The first one will be more brief. Yes, construction of infrastructure, including bypass, is my priority. I'm communicating intensively with the ŘSD. I am intensively supervising that the construction is carried out according to the timetable. I'm on a local survey, I'm on trips with the Prime Minister. We'll be in Central and South Bohemia next week. Then we're going to Ústí Region. That's only when it comes to infrastructure. [[17.50 hours]] As regards the reasons why the building permit was revoked, I will therefore repeat it once more to the application. The Regional Authority has not delivered all documents to all parties. He did not deliver through the official plate of the Municipal Authority Votice, as he should, even if the construction plan concerned the cadastral territory of Votice. The Regional Authority delivered the documents incorrectly, or contrary to the administrative rules. He delivered the van instead of into his own hands. The Regional Authority has not demonstrated compliance with the legal time limits for delivery by means of a public decree on the official records of the Regional Authority and the Municipal Authority Olbramovice. The first notice of initiation of the construction procedure was different from that of the builder. The issue of the second notice of initiation of the same construction procedure was not justified, which entails the considerable uncertainties of the parties to the construction project. Building permits are inadequate or have not dealt with objections at all. The settlement of objections is as unreviewable as the entire construction process. The file was filed in breach of the administrative order and was not complete at the same time. The participants were not aware of the addition of the file before the decision was taken. There are fundamental doubts regarding the version of the project documentation which was the basis for the decision. Some objections could not be settled because they referred to documents which were not the contents of the file. As Minister of Transport, this situation does not please me at all. I would like the Regional Authority of the Central Bohemia Region to issue a perfect building permit again as soon as possible so that construction can be started. For the Ministry of Transport and for its investor organization ŘSD I state, we want to build, but we need the right and perfect administrative decisions for this. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u182	Thank you for your time and for your response, and please Mr Michálek, who will interpel Minister Staněk on the risk of lawlessness of the decision-making of the Minister of Culture. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u183	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, nice to the public. I have noted that there is a lot of talk in the media today about a competence lawsuit and how social democracy should defend itself. But I see one more rather large risk, which results from the fact that we have clearly written in the Constitution that the President of the Republic will call off... [[Interruption from the diaper.]] It's like somebody's got a record on here. I suggest you use your headphones. Thank you. So there is a relatively high risk that Minister Staněk has not been dismissed, although under the Constitution he should have been dismissed, and therefore he is in his capacity contrary to the Constitution. Therefore, all decisions it issues may be challenged and called into question by administrative courts with reference to the fact that it is illegal in its capacity and that the essential condition for the decision to be issued by a person competent to do so is not fulfilled, which has been duly legally appointed and exercised in accordance with the law. So I wanted to ask you how the Minister deals with this risk. If, for example, by changing the organizational order, he moved the issuing of those formal decisions to other persons in cases where possible. Or, in short, how he stood up to it to minimize the risk that those decisions would be called into question by the court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u184	Thank you, and the Minister is absent, so he will respond to your interpellation in writing within 30 days. And now, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will intersect Minister Kremlík in the matter of toll trouble on the horizon two. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u185	Dear Minister, a few hours ago, the Regional Court in Brno decided in dispute about the tender for the toll collection system. According to the information available in the media, the court complied with Kapsch's action and ordered the Office to deal again with contracts between the new operator of the toll collection system and the Ministry of Transport. The objective of the initiative of Kapsch u ÚOHS was to ban the performance of the concluded contract between CzechToll and SkyToll and the Ministry of Transport. I ask you, Minister, how will you proceed? After all, isn't Kapsch in the right and we're not in danger of canceling the new toll collection system? Should this Treaty be repealed, how would the State proceed and ensure toll collection? And you're not worried about any more lawsuits and an imminent cost increase for the Ministry of Transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u186	I also thank and ask the Minister again for an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u187	Mr President, thank you for once again giving me the floor. Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members, I have described here in the first part of the interview a process which is currently currently the present decision of the Regional Court in Brno. You all know I'm a professional lawyer. As an attorney and at the same time the Minister of Transport, I will want to do everything in my power to defend the interests of the Czech Republic with regard to selection under the current valid and effective contract. I would like to say to everyone that this decision by the Regional Court today does not affect any existing contractual relationship. It's valid and effective. The Ministry of Transport will continue to follow a valid and effective contractual relationship. That decision, which was the subject of a review by the Regional Court, was the decision of the Office for the Protection of Competition. The Ministry of Transport and the Czech Republic are only here as persons involved in the proceedings. How we will proceed, as you asked, Madame. We shall file an appeal against the decision as soon as possible to the Supreme Administrative Court, we shall ask for the postponement of enforceability. And if the competition authority continues administrative proceedings, we will, of course, comment on the administrative procedure. At the same time, as I have already said here, we are doing everything we can to start the toll system with the new supplier on 1 December 2020 on the extended toll roads. I think that's how I explained the legal position of the Ministry of Transport and that's how the Ministry of Transport will proceed in the coming weeks and months. I also said in the previous reply to the question about the interpellation that next week, I think it's Friday, we have a check-up day. During the inspection days, I will want to get acquainted with the current state of readiness to choose a myth on 1 December 2019. And, of course, from this so-called control day, there will also be a media output. So if you're interested further, I'd recommend watching the media at the end of next week. That's where you'd get more information. Because, of course, I'm wondering what's the readiness, when the OBU units start to change, when the intensive communication campaign starts, and so on. These are things I will want to hear from a new supplier and, of course, from my colleagues at the Ministry of Transport who are in charge of the toll system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-004-054.u188	Thank you. The Member is not interested in an additional question. So we've exhausted all of today's interpellations. I thank all the members of the government and all the Members who participated. So today's meeting is over. We will continue this meeting tomorrow, in the block of third readings, where points 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39 are on the agenda, and the points of the Railway Act and the electronic communications where we have the second reading will follow. Thank you again and have a pleasant evening.
