ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u1	94. Proposal by Members of Jan Farský, Vít Rakušan, Věra Kovářová, Petr Gazdík, Jana Krutáková and Petr Pávek to issue a law on the change of seats of some state authorities /German press 313/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 313/1. I prosit that Mr Jan Farský present the proposal for the appellants. [[Noise and restlessness in the hall.]] And I will ask the Chamber of Deputies to keep it down. It's after the vote, so if we have anything important to discuss, please be in the lobby. [[A member of Farsky's waiting at the speaker's desk for the O.R. to be quieted down.]] The noise level in the room is not quite right at all, at my discretion... Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me try to draw your attention to the Regional Support Act. I guess that's what the name would be more accurate than the one that's on the board right now. And maybe it would be even more accurate if he sounded that this is the only real proposal to support the regions that we can now discuss here. I'm coming from data. When you look at the Czech Republic, scissors between the center and regions are constantly opening. They open up in the wealth of individual regions, open up on behalf of university students in individual regions, open up in how many people face execution, how many people are trapped in debt. The differences between the centre and the regions are greater and greater. Our republic is just falling apart. We're a divided country, which if you compare GDP per capita, you'll find that it's tripled downtown; 10 years ago, it was a maximum of double compared to the weakest regions. And if you look at how many university-educated people there are in the regions, which, of course, also indicates the availability of health care, the possibilities of education, but also culture, so while Prague is somewhere around 40 percent, such as the Karlovy Vary Region is somewhere 11-12 percent. Which you can say at first sight, so what, there aren't any college students, there's not much going on. But if you ask, for example, health professionals, doctors, if they're willing to go to these regions to do practical doctors, in 77 percent of their answer is that they'd go, they'd like to go, financial terms decent, not an environmental problem, but the problem is they're not gonna find a job for their partner or partner. That's the answer in 77 percent, as they answered. It is the most common answer, the most common reason not to go into these regions, and this leads, of course, to the fact that the regions continue to sink. They fall in the availability of services, even in the availability of health care. If you look at what you can achieve in primary schools, what quality of education you can achieve, then if you look at the correlation tables, then simply the Karlovy Vary and Ustecký Region, the pupils at the first stage in the comparative tests are the worst. And that's not because there are less intelligent, less talented people. It's because the quality of education is lower than it is in the centers. And here we sign the worst of our futures, as we can, because our republic does not have mineral wealth, we do not mine diamonds here, there is not so much oil here in South Moravia, and lithium was rather a pre-election bubble than a chance to secure future substantial revenues of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic will prosper as its citizens will be educated. How we can use the talents that are in our citizens, how we can fulfill them, how we can give the potential in people through them and through society. And today is precisely the situation where we in these regions are losing the talent, the wealth of our country. And one of the reasons, of course, is that if parents don't push their children's quality education because they haven't achieved quality education themselves, and they don't actually see the whole point of it, because somehow they're going to make a living, he's going to be more against them than for them, and when they're in a debt trap, why they'd think about a fundamental change in the future, just like they're going to do, they're not going to get out of trouble, so they're not pushing for primary schools, but high schools to be better, and they're giving their kids a better educated future. There are even cases where they're a little in the way, if their kids go to college, because that means they're gonna have to feed them for another five, six, seven years before they get a teaching certificate or a graduation, so they can actually go to work and become independent of their parents. [[17.30 hours]] We are currently losing talent in the regions, losing wealth, the largest possible wealth of the Czech Republic, and it is our responsibility that we do this in some way to meet. There are various debates about how we're going to put billions in there, how we're going to help the regions that we're going to send huge subsidies. This has already been tried in the Northwest region, for example, and it has led to the fact that those who had stolen until then stole even more. But that it would somehow make these regions feel better and raise them, that's not the point. It's about there being places, jobs for which educated people are needed. And these educated people, when their kids go to school and they see that they get complicated compared to other regions, the possibility of getting into high school or even college, so they're going to push to improve education in place. So it would be the parents of two children in a class that has 25, 28 children, but the positive externality, the improvement of education, at that point, when they push for a better education for their children, they also provide the other 23, 26 children in that class that they go to. The proposal we are making here also responds to the fact that the Republic is simply divided. How many times you've heard in the regions what they've invented in Pražák, what they're doing in Prague, they don't even know where life is going and what's going on there. Look at the results of the elections, how the Czech Republic elects, how they are just two countries. You have some results in the center, in the big cities, and then you have the opposite results, if the choice is only between two options, you have the opposite results in the regions. And that's just not healthy for society. It's not healthy, and it's even dangerous. When you view the map of the Czech Republic, where the most benefits in material distress are paid, you simply see Sudeten. If you look at where the most people are in execution, or in a debt trap, you see Sudety again. When you look at the lowest quality of education in primary or secondary schools, you see Sudeten again. And that's just not okay. People aren't worse, they're not stupider, they just have a much smaller chance. According to the surveys available, where you are born determines how you will succeed in life. And that's a terrible thing when the postcode tells you what you'll have on your birth certificate that awaits you in the future. That's something I don't think we can afford, we can't afford as a republic. What can be done about it? I mentioned the possibility of subsidies. I don't think they're working. We're gonna put billions where it was stolen, it's gonna steal more, but we're not gonna structurally change that. We need jobs there that will be occupied by educated people. We can appeal to private companies. But will they go there? I don't think they're gonna be able to, 'cause they don't like it, it's not convenient for them right now. But the state has one huge power in its hand that it has not yet used, or only partially used, and that is that the state is a great employer. The state is a stable employer and the state is an employer who also decides where the jobs are. And that implies the proposal that we have made here. It is based on the fact that education is failing in the regions today, so we want to get quality jobs, well-paid jobs, stable jobs, which will generate the other values that I mentioned. And we want to get the money there, too. And the most effective money that can go in there is just the ones that come in with salaries, because those people are going to determine which services are going to prosper there, what culture is going to run there, and how schools will look there. That's pretty crucial to the region. Let us not expect the result that will come within a year, two after this introduction. It's gonna take a while. But we shouldn't be making laws here just for next year, two. We should think about how this country will work in fifteen, twenty years and how we will hand it over to our descendants, how we will hand it over to those politicians who will sit here after us. This is a law that has ambition and a mission to change this republic over the horizon of fifteen, twenty years, but to change it fundamentally - that I am convinced that even the gross domestic product of the whole Czech Republic will grow, because we will help these regions in this long-term way, that people who are there today and maybe do not work or work in poorly paid places will simply earn more money. Around each other will affect people who will also transfer the vision of success and the possibility that they can succeed to others. Just the potential and potential for growth of the Czech Republic is in the regions. If we turn our backs on them, we'll all pay for it. We will pay for it in the economy, we will pay for it as a society, we will pay for it in the wealth of the entire Republic. It's not a new idea at all. I confess, we're not original about this. The fact that some central offices are moving - and I am clearly saying, it is not about ministries, it remains in Prague - so that some central offices are moving, for this very reason it is a matter that has been going on for decades in countries like Sweden that is already taking place in Estonia in the second term. You will find these changes in Norway, where authorities move beyond the Arctic Circle and are prescribed that no new office can reside in Oslo anymore. In the United Kingdom, where the UK even has a regulation that by 2030, half of its civil servants will be transferred from London to other major cities in the United Kingdom. The whole half of it. We're talking about 5,000 out of 40,000 employees in this circus design. This is not a new idea in the Czech Republic either. This has already been considered in the past when the mining office was being transferred to Ostrava. [[Czech]] These are things that have already been discussed here, but they did not get in the House plenary. I'll get back to that international experience. Germany responds the same way, and the European Union responds when it places some of its agencies in different European countries. But you can also find examples of how authorities are relocated just to make the country solid, even in Mexico, South Korea. It is simply a matter that politicians respond to the fact that the differences between the centre and the regions around the world are increasing. In the UK, they even speeded up this effort after brexit when they just saw the map, which was black and white in the sense of the remain, or leave, just to stay or leave the European Union. It was precisely divided that the centres voted differently from the regions. The disruption of society is a global trend that we have to face. And this is a proposal to stand up to him. The proposal before you, I am not going to devote that scope to his particular justification, because I think it is important to debate in the committees, where I firmly believe you will send the law. The debate on the possibilities of regions, what they can offer, the debate on what can be provided for services in those regions. This proposal is, let's say, a work proposal. Yes, there may be traffic offices moved to Pardubice. We have the University of Transportation, we have a strong faculty there, and it makes sense that Pardubice is the traffic center, they are the crossroads of the Czech Republic. The Mining Authority, of course, gives logic from my point of view to live in Ostrava as well. I can imagine there, for example, the State Environmental Fund, which I know is interested in the Ostrava region, and which certainly makes sense for it to be in this place. Because what it brings in, the less than five thousand jobs that I mentioned here, it's not just that there's 2.5 to 3 billion on salary and that we're going to have so many more of those college jobs. [[17.40 hours]] But it also brings more belonging and association of society and respect for the state. 'Cause it's gonna be harder to say that they've invented something in Prague, that since it came from here, what a disaster it is again. They don't understand how regions work. But those civil servants in that place will also be certain ambassadors of state power. People will see in that region how the decisions are made, that it's not something that falls from Mars, but that there's a lot of work behind it, a lot of debate, a lot of evidence. And that it's not magical decisions from the sleeve, but that it just has some basis. We'll have those, in quotation marks, state-owned ambassadors who will hold the republic together through these bridges. Something we need immensely. The proposal talks about 23 offices that we propose to move to individual regional cities. Why county cities? Because they're big enough for us to find the educated labor force there to provide sufficient background at the same time. And we're talking about less than five thousand jobs moving from the center, in this case from Prague, to the regions. It may seem like a huge number to you, but I'll tell you another huge number. 180,000 people commute to Prague every day. The daily arrival to Prague is 180,000 people. What's in Prague? Traffic jams, huge pressure on property prices, totally burned property, which few people can afford. Also, when a state institution in Prague is looking for employees, it already has a huge problem, because the price level is forcing wage growth and these are, of course, reflected in wage growth. And it's really hard to get a high-quality employee into the state administration in Prague because the market is so competitive. The salary for which people in the region will be grateful because the price level is a little lower, so it is not attractive for anyone in Prague. This proposal, therefore, also with this proposal, we present that the wealth that is concentrated in the centre today - and it is absolutely natural and it will always be so that Prague will be a drag, that the centre will be a drag, that it will be the richest, that it will be a place where education is concentrated, that no one can challenge it and it is completely natural and normal. What is not natural and is not normal is that the difference between Prague, the centre, and the regions is increasing rapidly. It is therefore a proposal that aims to help the whole Republic. Helping to keep the regions together to be richer through salaries, but at the same time to push people to better education, better services, even better culture that can work there. It's about the fact that when the centre, Prague, is down in the next five years - so proposed is the deferred effectiveness of this law - five thousand jobs, so Prague, I dare say, will not even know. But if there are 300 new seats in Liberec, 600 seats in Jihlava, it will be a qualitative difference for the city. You can expect that there will be an increase in the number of bonuses in the theatres there, that this will enable the institutions there to plan completely differently. And the positives that it brings to those regions will be long-term and crucial. I am asking you in this - even for the Prague that won't hurt, which I think will benefit from the fact that the overheating that is here is already completely negative for the Prague. Even for Prague, the traffic caused by the 180,000 commuters is the problem. And only 5,000 of the passengers that we're proposing here are just a fraction that isn't a problem to fill. I think that during the five years when efficiency is proposed, there is a great chance that jobs in those regions will be filled from those regions, that it will not force them to move. After all, the international experience says that about a third to a quarter of people move, the rest is looking for a new one on the spot. But that it also brings such positive externality, that if young people leave the regions for work in the centers, it also leads to such things that may not occur to us at first glance that senior citizens, senior citizens, do not have one at a time when they need help from someone close to them, so they simply do not have one close at that moment. This leads to more use of social services in those regions and, in turn, the state bears costs that it would otherwise not have to bear if it did not tear families and communities apart in this way. So please consider supporting this proposal. I think the debate can and will be broad in committees. I'm ready for her, I'm looking forward to her. But I think it is a very important law that will support the regions, but which will support the whole Czech Republic. Thank you for the unprecedented attention and I look forward to the speeches that will be heard here, and especially the debates on the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u3	Thank you. I have three factual points here. I note that we are not yet in the debate, so I am canceling the factual remarks, and at this point I will give the rapporteur the floor for the first reading, Mr Jaroslav Kytýr. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, honourable Members, as the appellant has already said, the aim of the bill is to transfer 23 offices from the capital city of Prague to individual regional cities of the Czech Republic. The proposal, as mentioned, postpones the five-year effectiveness of the preparation and implementation of this legislation. The authors follow the proposal for decentralization of state administration and positive impacts on the regions, especially in the creation of qualified jobs, as already mentioned by the representatives of the submitters. The bill affects approximately 5,000 employees. Unfortunately, this very ambitious intention is an intention worthy of considering honourable Members and Members in this Chamber of Deputies, but it lacks a deeper factual and economic analysis, the absence and specification of impacts, which could, of course, be the subject of discussion in the various committees, but it should be mentioned already in the preparation of this legislative regulation. We do not actually know the social consequences, as has already been mentioned. Perhaps only part of the employees would agree to move their family to the relevant region, most might seek employment elsewhere in Prague, and new jobs would be created in the regions, which is commendable. However, we can also assume that there would be some disruption in the continuity of the administration's performance. As far as the state budget and other public budgets are concerned, the bill has a direct effect on public budgets. However, the effects are not mentioned in the proposal, as I have already said. At the same time, savings such as the construction of a new administrative complex, savings on rent or savings on salaries, which are not really quantified and again would be the subject of projected speculation within the framework of the discussions in the various committees. On the other hand, as I have already said, it is an interesting idea, it is a path that is being pursued in some European countries and would certainly strengthen individual regions by very educated people who would find application here with whole families and strengthen the local community. At the same time, it must also be underlined that a number of regions are interested in a number of these state institutions and would certainly support this idea by looking for a suitable background. [[17.50 hours]] I personally believe that it is possible to successfully discuss across the political spectrum some specific authorities, as has already been mentioned here in the Chamber of Deputies, the case of the relocation of the Czech Mining Authority. Unfortunately, in this bill proposal, we are going through a rather significant maximum change of 23 offices with an impact on about 5,000 employees, where we do not have the consequences of relocation, we do not have them in our hands, we do not know how to anticipate them at the moment. [[concerning]] For these reasons, I will propose rejecting this proposal in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u5	Thank you. I assume you will propose this in the general debate to which you will sign up. I am opening a general debate in which I have Mrs Jarošová signed up, Mr Dominik Feri will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to comment here on this amendment to the Act on the change of seats of some state authorities. Specifically, these are 23 offices that should be moved from Prague to regional cities throughout the Czech Republic. I cannot support this proposal because I lack any reasonable reason to do so. Only by moving in and acquiring suitable facilities for new authorities would there be enormous financial costs that can be used for more necessary purposes, such as greater support for families with children. A significant financial aspect would also be the termination of existing contracts of current employees, such as severance payments. In some places, the problem will also be to provide suitable experts for new positions. We cannot expect these experts to move to work anywhere outside Prague. Useless finances would also go to various trainings and retraining of new employees. It is also hard to understand the argument that billions will be saved on wages, as a civil servant is paid according to the laws of the tables and it does not matter whether he operates in Prague or Znojmo. I think that it is not necessarily necessary for new and new laws to be created at all costs and to burden our already inconspicuous legal system, especially without serious reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u7	Thank you. At the moment, Mr Dominik Feri is entered into the general debate, but he is also registered with a factual remark. [[Mr Feri states that he will speak in the debate.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u8	Mr President, I completely understand the initiative of the petitioners, and I think President Farský has put up with a great deal of convincing arguments about why we should be dealing with this matter. But I'm afraid that the door on which he knocks will not be knocked because the government is increasingly accentuating centralization, which sometimes may not be bad, and sometimes it is wrong in my opinion, for example, that centralisation of the parties to the relocation of all authorities, or as many offices as possible to Letň. But I think it's more than appropriate to deal with it. It would be good if the interest were really not idle, but a little, say, with some sort of staff culture, that is, within the committees, and therefore, as a guarantor, I lecture the opinion of our parliamentary club that we will not vote in favour of the announced rejection. However, assuming that this proposal would be rejected, we will definitely join in if, for example, a resolution was discussed by the Ministry by which we would commit, we would impose on the Ministry of Regional Development an analysis of what it would cost, what authorities, what implications it would have for public budgets, so we would definitely support such a resolution, and I think it would be quite an interesting journey and an interesting idea. To this extent, it's more of an assignment for some government programming statement for some other perspective. But we should look at this because the differences between regions and the capital, and I say this as a Prague MP, are getting bigger and more deserving of our attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u9	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Bláha. Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to comment on the things that have been said here. If we really mean it honestly, let's stop doing artificial things that never do anything good or good. If you really mean it, then let's support the abolition of imports of sub-cost prices (?) at sub-cost prices of raw materials and products from abroad, I note the subsidised, and we will have work to do in the village, we will have work to do in regions, people will not run away. Let's secure the connection, Internet, telephone, signal coverage, as it is in Prague, for all regions. Let's secure the transport infrastructure. Since the mentioned region of Karlovy Vary - you can get there from Prague in two and three quarters of an hour, you have no connection to other foreign regions or the surrounding regions. And the last one, which is the most important thing, let's change the distribution of money. Prague and the Central Bohemia Region will receive as much money within the RUD as the rest of the Republic. Once again, you here in Prague will get the same amount of money as all the regions combined. So you have to think about it, and then there's the culture in those regions, and then there's the education in those regions, because there's going to be money on it, and so on, and so on. But most importantly, let's not try to create anything artificially again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u11	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Procházková is registered. Mr Feri and Mr Votava will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on the introductory words of my colleague, through the President, Mr Farský, who said that 70 per cent of the doctors are supposedly hesitating or do not want to get in... [[Member Farsky states from the microphone table that he said 77 percent.]] 77 % - all the more so is that he does not have the opportunity to work for his partner. I would like to hear it here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies because every time this is said here, it goes into the world, it goes into the Republic, everyone hears it and then works with it, with this information, so I as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Karlovy Vary Regional Hospital, which ensures the maximum health care in the Karlovy Vary Region, and I believe that for the other two hospitals operated by Penta, I can say that we, for every doctor who enters our hospital, our hospitals, have a special workplace that provides work for their partners as well. We've been doing this for over two years. So I think it needs to be said here that everyone will be assured that if they join us, they will not only have very good salaries, accommodations, but employment for partners, and that is high-level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u13	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Feri, Mr Votava and Mr Bláha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u14	Thank you for the floor. The discussion's going on, and that's a good thing. I think everyone has some experience from their wounds, and they're able to comment on it financially. However, it should be noted that there have already been some proposals concerning the support of the regions. There was a proposal of the Mining Act, an adjustment of the fee for the acquired mineral more in favour of the regions, more in favour of the municipalities, but it just wasn't entirely heard. And perhaps even to Mr Bláh through Mr President. It must be mentioned that the plaintiff, however much I do not want to speak for him, but I think he reads it a little bit like me, that means not to intervene entirely on the strength, not to force people from cities into regions, to inger too much into the market, but to try really with some decent interference, by moving certain administrative authorities to get qualified people into regions and get the money for it. There's no need to do it revolutionarily, but to actually get there through gradual steps. [[18.00 hours]] And maybe I can still remember that about moving the mansion, or virtually. not moving the mansion, setting up the mansion, we were already having fun here, I remember, for example, my colleague's proposal to Bartoň, who suggested that the head office of the National Sports Agency be in Bruntál, and there were more. And what kind of understanding did this experience here? I didn't. I'm afraid so. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u15	Thank you. Mr. Václav Votava. Mr. Jiří Bláha will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I do not wish to question the fact that you are making such a proposal. It's legitimate. Of course, you can make any suggestion. All I can do is argue that it is in the region's favour. I don't think he really is. For one or two institutions to come to a regional city, this will certainly not help the region. Of course, quality infrastructure will help regions, especially transport. Let us remember how often we fight for money to repair second and third-class communications. And that's basic. This is the basis of simply - quality transport infrastructure. We can talk about budgeting taxes so that municipalities have more money for their development, providing services for our citizens. So here, gentlemen, I really don't see how life in the regions will improve by moving 23 of these institutions. I can argue with the fact that some accessibility for citizens will actually improve. On the contrary, if I am not Prague in Prague - and I am not Prague, so I do not fight for Prague, but I understand that Prague is the center, there are central bodies, and a person, when he goes to one office, he does other things. If I go, and now I don't want to touch Jihlava, just one place, I'll do one thing. So that's what this is all about. And as for the jobs, it's also a chimera, that there will be a number of new jobs. Maybe some service, some service. But the specialists who have been training for this for years are trained, so of course it takes a long time. And you won't be able to find them. So it can, of course, paralyze the operation of the office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u17	Mr Jiří Bláha will speak with a factual point and prepare Mr Petrtýl with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u18	I'd just like to clarify for understanding. It is necessary to leave to those regions what regions have been used to so that we do not artificially create new jobs where they are not - perhaps education, perhaps practice, perhaps tradition. It's probably hard to do politics in the village, so we should be making potatoes and apples and other things. So this is about the subsidised prices. If we reduce imports of subsidised products into the Czech Republic, work in the village will return. If there is work in the villages, the service in the region will change, etc. And one of the most important things I have forgotten in the RUD, and if we want justice - what is justice that a citizen in Liberec gets twice as much as in the RUD as in the Pilsen Region, three times less than in Brno, seven times less than in Prague? Is that justice? I think only when you hear the numbers, and I bring them to you in fact, Liberec 12,000 per person, Plzeň 24,000 per person, so that's when everything comes out of it. You have theaters, movies, schools, health care and blah, thousands of other things, transportation. So it's all connected enormously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Petrtýl and his factual point. Last logged in so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning I would like to respond to my colleague Farský, his speech because all passengers are going to Prague via the Central Bohemia Region, where we currently have integrated rail transport, so 180 000 will come to Prague daily only by train and from other regions. As far as buses are concerned, it is also the number of almost 180,000, there are not all connections yet integrated, but the estimate is very accurate, also around 180,000. And as for cars, that's an estimate, it's harder to estimate, and there's an estimated about 100,000. So the number is a lot bigger than you say. And here I have to turn again against my colleague Bláh, who said that the Central Bohemian Region is actually somehow cutting back on other regions from the point of view of the budgetary determination of taxes. It's not like that. The opposite is true. In 2000, when the regions were formed, some percentage was determined by population, and according to this, the regions were allocated funds. And for example, the Central Bohemia Region has increased by 24 percent since then, the population, that is. There's an ever smaller budget of money per capita. So the opposite is true. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Václav Klaus will be speaking in the debate. Mr. Juránek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I've done my own research. I found out that the speakers were the most aggressive right from the start at 2:00 and 2:30, and then, if it's a 10:00 p.m. meeting. And on the other hand, the quietest ones are around 6:00 p.m., which is right now. So I will also perform very calmly in the afternoon opposition window, when the government coalition rejects one of these proposals after another. I didn't join the first one either, the pensions, because it was more like a popular election debate. As a bookie, I find it to be President Bělobrádek, Vice-President Jurečka, and I think it's already been rejected. We supported the latter, or I supported it, because my colleague Majerová is ill, because the state is actually often destroying companies now, and the court will then show that it was completely wrong. So it was a serious subject. I would like to add to this point that this is, of course, a serious topic, how many government bodies are to be located directly in the central city of Prague and how many are not. You probably know we have some high courts in Brno, we have some mining office in Ostrava. And it's definitely a real subject. It was mentioned here that Members did not support the headquarters of sport in Bruntal. So I was one of those who very cordially supported it, but I was outvoted, which I respect. In this matter I am also completely neutral, because there can be no office in Pec pod Sněžkou, there are huge problems with parking and the municipal office is such a small pastuette. So I'm completely neutral about it. And on that point, the proposal as it is now put forward, I think it has a big weakness, in that it actually determines the change of residences into regional cities. And I think we have an experience here that, about - so that I don't say it stupidly and I'm not bullied to give misinformation - about 18 years ago, there were regions, whether I'm right or at some time like this, we haven't had them in about ten years. So the regions were created and huge offices were created in all the regions, just school offices, regional and others, where there are hundreds and hundreds of officials, and more or less none of what the translator here assumed would happen as if it were in a good mind. The society is still equally divided, it still chooses, otherwise some regions, otherwise the second, educational level is somewhere like this and somewhere like this. So I'm wondering if the law should be redesigned. And if we really meant it, then really place the state authorities in areas where the work is hard to get, where there really is no wealth of persons, Wallachia, Šluknovsko, Ashovský výzkůk, and so let the state build the office, and thanks to that, there will be restaurants and everything else. If it wasn't as meaningful as putting it only in those regional cities, which already have equally adequately those regional authorities incorruptible, as the Slovák would say, and no good comes of it to anyone except those officials themselves. Well, that's one thing I actually wanted to discuss when it's happening here, because it's gonna be rejected anyway, it's a quiet afternoon. [[18.10 hours]] And the other. I didn't quite understand how it would affect the families, as you said, that they were at the edge of the material emergency, or that the family had just completely broken up, so I didn't understand how it would benefit them if some officials came from Prague to that county town, if, where there's a direct link, what's going to happen to that person. If he needs to see that the clerk wears a pretty coat or whatever it's gonna be good for him. But otherwise, it's for discussion, and I'm not gonna deny it, this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u23	Thank you. Mr Juránek will speak in the debate. And Mr Lipavský cancels his apology today by the end of the day. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I actually wanted to put emphasis on something completely different, but my predecessor here has changed the whole concept that I want to say, because I want to say that the idea that is here, of course, has two dimensions, just like the folks' one just now. That means he's trying very comprehensively to solve everything without all the assumptions being made for it. And so did we, but in fact, our wish was quite primitive to solve the biggest problem. So when I start with us, I want to say that for me the biggest problem is that my wife has a pension of CZK 6,700, even though she's an economist, she worked at Komerční banka just so we know, and she worked there in a significant place. But she took care of our three children for ten years, and she took care of her parents for nine years. And I didn't have the ambition to solve the whole problem here that concerns the pension system, but I had the ambition to remove only the biggest and most louder problems and just to move it one step at a time, because I'm also in favour of pushing things away at a time, but only in small steps. And that's why I think we should deal with this, because even here, we have the opportunity not to deal with 23 authorities, but to say that they are here, and now I'm going to say for myself, two or three, which we could agree on, and which we could do partial decentralisation. Without putting on great goals that we can make a big difference, at least we can move in some direction, and the next time we can come from certain experiences. Now why do I say that I will follow up on my previous speaker, my colleague Klaus, for the simple reason that something significant has happened here? It was the origin of the regions. I'll specify it, it was 19, not 18 years ago, but it's not relevant. There will be regional elections in a year, and yet at this stage, the regions have not yet succeeded in getting into the form that was promised at the beginning of 19 years ago. That is, there was talk at the time that those regions would take over the very part of these tasks that we are talking about here in connection with this law. I see in front of me through the President-in-Chief of the Great Moravian-Silesian Region, over there on the right I see my colleague at the beginning, when the regions began, a colleague of the Zahradník. And I mean, it's changed, and it's changed a lot. There was, for example, the transport infrastructure of the second and third classes. And there you can evaluate that there have been major changes in the second and third classes and that the regions have largely moved forward because they have received subsidies from the EU. So they have greatly improved this system, and of course it has an impact on certain employment and on certain structures in those regions. Yeah, there's a big difference whether the county's big or small. But I dare say that one of the things that was said here at the beginning was that the education system was very important. And here's how the school system works at this point, and it works that it's not about universities, we've got enough of them. I'd say almost every major city has a college. I don't know the exact number, but I know there's more than 70 of them, the colleges we have. I'm sure that's not in this position. The regions are in charge of it as if it were secondary education and can be said to be semi-higher education and municipalities, especially large cities, take care of basic education. The connection here is largely lacking, and one of the important things that is currently being mentioned within the regions is that we have 14 types of education here, without any exaggeration, so that indeed a number of pupils have a problem when they go from the region to the region to hold up in some subjects. But that's a mistake from the beginning, from the top. And we don't even have to take precautions here. This is also possible through the Ministry of Education, and here we could take advantage of the capacity of the regions in a great way if we gave them some of the powers that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has. I am absolutely convinced that this journey is much more important, namely strengthening the regions, and I am also saying this through Mr President, the Head of the Karlovy Vary Region, that through the regions, we will trust them more from the top position, i.e. from the position of Parliament, but I would say in the first place of the government, so we can achieve some of the reforms that we are talking about here in this law. And so I'm just saying - please, every step is worth it. Every step, even if only the mining office in Ostrava succeeded, because I dare say that the mining office in Ostrava is not, as it was said a moment ago. It's not. That means when we say that some things have deeper logic, and I stress specifically the Mining Authority, but I liked the Railway Authority in Pardubice. Where it really has deep meaning and deep logic, it is good that we use this draft and try to support it. In conclusion, I say - please, let us try to say that we will also take small steps, that we will not do the great systemic things that we are going to do within the regions of 19 years, and we have not yet managed to reform education as it was set up at the beginning. That means, let's try a little bit, and maybe it'll do some good. Thank you for your attention. Otherwise, I say for myself that I will certainly not be in favour of rejection and that I look forward to discussing specific places where we could agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u25	Thank you. Mr Milan Brázdil, Mr Václav Votava, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u26	Thank you for the floor. Perhaps I will not prolong this debate, but, Mr Juránek, through Mr President, I would have taken some of the issues from the regions again. And I know what, and I think you're gonna give me the truth. And it's an impact on the rescue service. The medical rescue service of this Republic should simply be state. And I see it in the fire department, I see it in the police, we're gonna be here, it's called cutting a bear, approving a budget, and there's one of you directing the fire department to add, to the cops, and they're never gonna make it to the rescue services. The smallest file, the most exits, I've said it repeatedly, sorry I'm fighting for them. So I think there's a demonstration right here that these regions might even like to get rid of it, but they say they can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u27	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u28	Thank you for the floor. So I wanted to respond to my colleague Juránek, but I was pricked by my colleague Brázdil. That's his theme, of course, an ambulance to be central. Well, I strongly disagree with that, Mr. Colleague! And I think - say it in the regions! Because those regions have invested - we have one of the best ambulances ever. European, maybe worldwide. Those regions have invested a lot of money, they've equipped it, and now you want to centralize it. Don't do anything that goes through what works today. If it works, then why would we change it? It's nonsense. I'm sorry I said that word. [[18.20 hours]] Otherwise, Mr. Juránek's colleague. You said the proposal was complex. He's not complex. First of all, it is not clear what the demands on the state budget will be. And that should include such a proposal. And that's even mandatory to include the proposal. There is calculated that, yes, the authorities or the institutions will leave some buildings, some real estate in Prague, which can be made apartments. That's nice, of course, maybe you can make it into apartments, that saves six billion on not having to do the government ghetto when I call it that, which I think is another nonsense, the government ghetto, and that's where the ministries, not these institutions, should be moving. And you're not going to find out what the cost of the state budget of the parties is, then, the acquisition of the buildings in the individual regions. And that's going to be a lot of costs. It's a small expense. So it's not a complex solution. Not at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u29	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you the SPD club's opinion here. Of course, we talked about it at the club, we discussed it from all sides, and I have to say, from the opinions I just heard here, there's a certain part of us in every opinion. We are not in favour of being done, as Mr Votava said here through the President, the government ghetto. We're not for any government district because it's going to cost billions of crowns. And I think we believe that we can spend billions of crowns in infrastructure, health care, individual regions, health care and other things. And we think that this proposal, which deals with the comprehensive decentralization of those authorities, will not, in our view, bring any greater employment into those cities and municipalities. And dealing with it complexly, we think it's the same money as the government neighborhood. It is money that can be used elsewhere, can be used in districts, in regions, throughout the Czech Republic, for many other things. But I am not saying that my colleague Farský here, through the President, is wrong about something. We're willing, and we want to talk about it per partes. We can talk about this if an office moves, because the conditions of the property in which it is located today are no longer satisfactory. More officials will be needed, but we hope that less officials than more. And then let's go to this office, as I said, per partes, to talk about not having to live in Prague, for example, like the Mining Authority, which is logically based in Ostrava, and so on. [[Noise in the hall.]] Let's always talk about a specific office. And here I would add that it can also be supplemented comprehensively, as Mr Votava says, by writing about how much it will cost and how much it will burden our state. So, if I may say for the SPD club, we will not support this proposal, but if you come up with a proposal for individual authorities, because they will have to move, the conditions will be unsatisfactory, not only because we want to move them, but because there will be some objective cause, we are willing and we will be happy to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u31	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not wish to speak too much, but Ostrava has already been mentioned many times. I'd like to point out to all my colleagues that you've already closed all our shafts in Ostrava, so we've almost got nothing there, maybe the mining damage at most. There are still functional shafts, but they're not in Ostrava territory. So mentioning Ostrava in this context is not entirely good. But enough of the humor. I'll go back to the law as such. At first, when I looked at him, I supported him. You have noticed that I also support other laws that move central authorities into regions. Before I listened, I really don't know why, a very long opening speech by the translator. It was so long. And I'm sorry, dear translator through Mr President, it was nothing. And it was counterproductive to the result. So I read, and I started to study and read the law, and I noticed that these cities to individual institutions were shot like this from the waist, just so that there would be one, like we'd give something completely devoid of logic and meaning. In your opening speech, you mentioned Ostrava often because you realized that your proposal only appeared once, I don't even talk about Brno, and it is also an important city that should appear somewhere. So you were just trying to do it like that, without going into the consequences, whether the correction of the specific authorities has any meaningful response in the region, if those regions would even want such an office, if they could do anything and use the office. I consider it a huge mistake to make such proposals, and I am leaning towards the idea of really per partes to deal with it within specific laws, but not by putting Bruntal there to make it more fun, but really seriously to start talking about it, not politically, but seriously about the fact that cities are ready to adopt the central authorities of the state, these authorities are also ready to move to those cities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u33	Thank you, and Mr Dominik Feri has made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u34	It would make sense what Mr Luzar mentioned here by means of the President, but when we are dealing with a partial amendment, there is simply no room for it to address the seat of that administrative office. There's something completely different about it, and if someone opens up there, maybe it's, I think, a government MP, the subject of that office... So the headquarters of the office, so everyone laughs at him and says, "That's not the content of the amendment at all." This means that we should let this proposal go further just so that we can discuss it per partes so that we can sit on the Public Administration Committee, as Mr Bláha says through the President, and discuss it. [[Nesroz.]] And maybe they found two or three offices where we can really find the problem that this seat in Prague is inconvenient, that there will be a need for reconstruction anyway, that there is a response in that region, but it can't be said that we should deal with it on every single proposal. There we are dealing with some partial modifications absolutely unrelated to the issue of the residence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u35	Thank you. In the general debate, Mr Kolovratník will speak. You've had your chance, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u36	Thank you. I've been waiting. Good evening. Before I say what I want to say, I have to say, colleagues, that I'm a little frowning about these factual remarks. I really signed up for the debate, patiently waiting, and those factual remarks, which, in my opinion, were not a factual comment, but an exchange of views, were enough. But please take that as a friendly remark. Now, get to the point. Well, I'm not going to please the petitioner. I am very, very strongly against this proposal and against this initiative. I'll try to explain why. And it's actually going to be a paradoxical attitude. The Railway Inspectorate and the Railway Authority have been mentioned here, namely, the railway business. You know I'm trying to get on the railroad. I'm from Pardubice, on the main railway corridor of the city, which is connected with Jan Perner, so now I should be that patriot and be happy with this proposal. Sometimes I also say that I am East Bohemia, and the Railway Infrastructure Administration is proposed to Hradec Králové, where I am Vice-President of the Board of Directors. I should be happy twice, but I don't have it, colleagues. And I'll try to explain why. Perhaps the first reason when this proposal appeared as House Press, now I'm sorry, last year, sometime last year it was, so management turned to me just SŽDC and Railway Inspection and colleagues were really, really scared, scared. So obviously you didn't even talk to them, you didn't ask if the organizations wanted it, how it would work, whether it would help or not. And I can guess the argument: Officials will never want it, we won't ask them. But don't be mad at me. I don't think that's a good attitude. That's not a good way to go. You should talk to them and ask for feedback from them. [[18.30 hours]] Many of you who are the proponents of this proposal are also members of the Economic Committee. Remember, I suspect it was this spring when the chairman of the Autonomous Office, the ÚOHS, came with a proposal or a request that the office in Brno would like to have at least a branch here in Prague. I don't remember exactly, I don't think he succeeded with the suggestion that we said no, stay in Brno. But their request had a ratio. They said: When we come here to Prague to negotiate with you, with the central authorities, let it be the ministries, the House, the Senate, we leave Brno at four, five, six in the morning to be here in Prague on time, it is simply difficult for us to use modern technologies, Internet, mail, communication means, teleconferencing etc. I have an idea what a counterargument could be against me right now - so you're supposed to have the D1 ready to be quick, you're supposed to have the speed trains, etc. But I'm gonna try to lean on the fast trains, the railroad connections. Let me give you an example from Great Britain. The Brit built a connection some time ago called HS1, High Speed 1, it's a link from the coast, Folkestone, Dover, around Ashford, Canterbury, all the way to London. And this area before the railroad connection was emptying out, just like Central Bohemia is sucking in Prague, so there weren't many people living there, moving to London. And when they've managed to complete the high-speed line here - and that's based on hard facts, the numbers I can prove, I can send them to you and make them public - people figured that out. All of a sudden, they were home fast from London at 40-50 kilometers. They went back, they lived there, they live there because they have cheaper housing, cheaper costs, and their job, the authorities kept it in London so they could just get close to each other. And that's the way we're going. At SŽDC we enter the first pilot section of the high-speed line here from Prague from Běchovice to Poříčan to Kolín by the end of this year into documentation for territorial management. Once again, you can argue that this is a process where construction may not start for five years, but we already see some deadlines and I believe that it is being worked out, that it may be faster and that we are moving it forward. To stop stalling, if some haven't decided yet, my opinion is that we shouldn't be like this - I'm sorry, I don't mean to say random, but somewhere from the table here from the House to choose some number of institutions that we will move or decide on in the Czech Republic. It really hurts them, and it doesn't help anything. Again, to be specific, at SŽDC there are designers, economists, strategists who need to face this face today and daily to see people at the Ministry of Transport, at carriers, at the Czech Railways, at hygiene, at firefighters etc., and simply those people need to have everything close. And the second thing is, maybe they need to get into that job quickly, like using those high-speed lines or the D1 motorway - please don't wake up your smile on your lips - which I believe will be completed in the foreseeable future and will be capacitive and passable. So if you're here some of you haven't made a decision - I for myself am against this proposal. Like I said, even a railroadman, I can't support him. And if a motion to dismiss is filed, I'm pleading in favour of it being rejected. It just feels like he doesn't understand. I'm sorry about that, but I'm just saying it fair and square. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u37	Have a good evening. Mr Petr Bendl will make a point of fact. [[He wants proper.]] You'd like a proper one. So I am cutting back the facts, but with due cause, Mr Jaroslav Kytýr is registered before you in the debate. So then, Mr. Petr Bendl. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I will allow myself not to delay this debate, which was very fruitful, and I would say that I have also underlined the introductory words that I have said in my intelligence report. The idea evokes in all of us certain ways, intentions, feelings that the regions should be encouraged, that certain decentralisation should be created. On the other hand, we feel that this bill is not preconceived, it is merely an evocative idea where individual authorities could go in the future if they had a ratio if they had a certain agreement that we could make some progress or some support within the region. For these reasons, as I have submitted, I would like to propose to the honourable House that this motion be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u39	Well, I've got a note. And now Mr Petr Bendl, Mr. Petr Bendl, is reporting for the general debate, so far the last application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I won't be long. I just wanted to say my position on this thing. We are talking about a bill that is designed to solve the bureaucratic infrastructure, that we would also equip individual regions with an infrastructure in the amount of the administrative apparatus, thus raising the level of life of people in individual regions. I'm not gonna please the translator, I just don't think this is the way. If there was a list of authorities to discuss which authorities we're going to cancel or, possibly, to which authorities we're going to take away some agendas that are redundant and poison people's lives, I'd be all ten in favor. Because if you look at the number of hundreds of offices that the Czech Republic has, the number of stamps that we have, if we reduce it, we have a much better chance of talking about how to make life more enjoyable for people in individual parts of the Czech Republic. I'm Středočech, and it's not personal of me that you're not suggesting an institution to Central Bohemia. But I have to say, there's 300,000 people out there with no tap connected to the wells. That seems more important to me. And there's the Secretary of State for Regional Development. I asked her predecessor for information on how each region is equipped with the basic infrastructure. I didn't get an answer. And I'm kind of curious about the comparison. Because it talks about the quality of people's lives, about the conditions they're having, how they clean the water, how they're connected to the sewers, if they have transport infrastructure, if they have bypasses, if they have highway connections, etc. That's what I think we should be interested in, and that's where we're supposed to talk about it. And where are we going to save it? Well, inside the functioning of the state, where else? I think the number of officials we have is unprecedented. And to think that if we move them, and then maybe I'll be as many as I can, right? That we would be more helpful in helping the regions to get better and better, with more and more paid officials there, I think the opposite is true. We're supposed to have a lean state, a cheap state, so we have more money to do what people in the regions really need. So I'm certainly not going to support the fact that we're still discussing this at second or third reading. I think the Czech Republic has a lot of other problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u41	Well, I'll see if I have anyone else for the general debate, I don't see anybody, so I'll have the general debate... [[From the diaper, they say.]] Yes, we do, we do. So, Mrs Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would also like to comment on this House's press, particularly from the position of the Association of Regions, which has dealt with this House's press, and at the same time we have sent every region to express its views on the bill. I must say that some regions have received a support position, some regions have received a negative opinion, and some regions have received a neutral position. This means that the Regional Association has not adopted any resolution on this bill, but has only taken note of it. She said that she supported this idea, however, requires that there be a deeper analysis, and that is why we have not expressed ourselves in any way, because many regions see that there are no property, financial and personnel implications. So I consider it necessary to say the position of all the regions here. And Mr. Farský knows the County Association is in denial. She was willing to make the arguments and the opinions that they presented available in some way. The truth is that there is no consensus at present, so the vast majority of the regions in no way support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u43	So I will see if there is any interest in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. Now the final words - Mr Jan Farský is interested in the applicants. I ask if the rapporteur Jaroslav Kytýr is interested. He doesn't. So Mr Farský has the final word. Please. [[Big noise in the hall.]] And I beg you to remain calm in the courtroom, please. We will still vote, we have a motion for a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for the debate that has taken place here. She's already got a value. We said that there are problems in the regions, scissors just open up and recipes to keep the country from falling apart, we're just looking. We have different opinions about this, but right now, there's a law on the table that wants to face it. When there's a motion to abolish the authorities, I'll be happy to attend to him. When we speed up the infrastructure and build 400 kilometers a year instead of four kilometers a year, it will be possible to commute when the drills - the high-speed railroad - are finally built, everything is great. But these are all long dreams, and if we were to build at the same speed as the highway that has been built in recent years, so are dreams, their realization, even our grandsons will not be able to live. I will allow myself a few more moments that I think are important to this discussion, which I still hope will continue with the committees, because I think it's hard to answer in your regions tomorrow that you don't want jobs there, that you don't want to employ people there, but even if you do, I will allow myself to say some of the arguments that are just part of it. There is no new job. Just today, the jobs are concentrated in the center and they move around the Czech Republic, which, of course, leads to other benefits related to this. I would like to give one example from the country that I am still here in this long list, where this is already due to the collapse of society and the disintegration of the countries where they have agreed to this, so that country is the United States. They call it gentrification and I'll try to describe it to you very simply what's going on there. It happened to them that in those big cities, such as San Francisco, they just had to downtown, the city center, accumulate all the wealth, all the decent jobs, connected restaurants, services, etc. From the suburbs and the other neighborhoods, as you know, the block system in America works in this, so what happened to them was that people started running away, real estate prices were falling, and there was an increase in security, and the cities were just falling apart. They went to the other side, and the block that was adjacent to the last one, let's say, cultivated and the richer one, they planted one public institution in that block, and they noticed that people started looking for something to eat there, then they asked for a dry cleaner, then they wanted to get closer, so the quality of the housing improved there, and in a few years the block started to flourish, and they moved the next office another block further. Without putting a bunch of billions of subsidies in there that are gonna blow up and have no effect after a few years, they've put their lives in those other places. That's the case we're proposing here in this law. As far as the sums are concerned, I am here based on the economy, for example, what the Prime Minister referred to as a justification for the district of Letňany. He happened to mention that there are five thousand officials in Prague, which is the number corresponding to the proposed transfer, the relocation to regions located in rented buildings, and only 500 million crowns are paid annually for rent for these five thousand seats. [[A note from the diaper.]] It doesn't cover. It is true that this does not, of course, coincide with those who propose to relocate, but it is a question of course logistics and utilization, but there is no room for five thousand officials in Prague today, for which CZK 500 million must be paid annually for rent. That's a hell of a budget for us to find a place for them in those regions. Plus the buildings are there. When I give a specific example of Liberec - near the station building Skleexportu. Empty, empty for years, unused. A civil office building that is ready for the state. On the contrary, we are facing a completely different problem. Last year, the Czech Railways announced a tender for 10 thousand sqm of office space in Prague to be able to move there from the Ministry of Transport, where they can no longer fit. Do you know what happened? Not at all, because they did not receive any offer from private entities in Prague for such a large area. Why didn't the Czech Railways come up with the idea that they might be based in Pardubice? It's not even an hour from the Ministry of Transport if they wanted to go to a meeting, and at the same time in those Pardubice they would operate in a far, far more natural way. I admit, I approached both the captain and the mayor, and they didn't develop much activity around it. I respect that it's their decision. It is not an innovative idea even in the Czech Republic. Even today, which is why Brno is not there, because Brno has experienced this relocation in the past. We have the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman, the UOHS, the Supreme Administrative Court. Brno is the capital of the judiciary of the Czech Republic and it has already proved how it can benefit him if education is maintained there. Whatever the outcome of the vote today, I would also like to recommend Martin Kábrt, the Czech economist who works in England, won one prestigious competition this year with the job of calling on scientists, economists to tell where the potential growth potential of Great Britain is hidden. He won it with the theme that inequality kills growth, that great differences between regions and centers simply slow down the whole of Great Britain. If you put the Czech Republic into it, you will not be mistaken, and the survey is completely on it. I would also like to thank you very much through the President, Mrs Procházková, who set this wonderful example with the regional hospital in the Karlovy Vary Region. She completely confirmed what I said here. She said they had to set up a specialized workplace where they employ the doctors' partners to even go there. It's a godly achievement, they probably had nothing else to do, but it just confirms that it's a problem to get people into those regions and provide basic services. I would like to ask you not to throw the regions overboard in this case, you are throwing overboard the whole Czech Republic. Please release this proposal to the second reading so that we can discuss it on the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-03-ps2017-039-05-007-094.u45	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposals. I have here Mr Jaroslav Kytýr's motion to reject the motion submitted, so I will engage. I shall call the Members to the Chamber. I'm hearing an application for a check-out, so I'm going to check you all out and sign up again with my voting cards. I think we are in sufficient numbers here, so once again, we will vote on the motion to reject this proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of rejection? Who's against rejection? In the vote number 128, 141 Members have signed up, 90 Members are in favour of rejection, against 37. The motion was denied. I therefore end the first reading of this proposal. We'll move on to the next press. This is about
