ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (the Electronic Communications Act), as amended (the House Press 420/ - Second Reading) Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important law which, to some extent, reflects the fact that the current situation on the mobile operator market is quite so-called oligopolic. This, in itself, would not yet be as big a problem as the fact that, according to the ČTÚ communication, it exhibits elements of the so-called tactical collage. Translated into Czech, it is actually when individual operators behave in the same way without actually negotiating. This, in itself, has resulted in the fact that the market for mobile operators, in particular with regard to the prices of mobile operators so much mentioned in recent months, is incomparable from our point of view in the sense that the market shows signs such that prices are extremely high for consumers, rather than extremely low for corporations and large institutions. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The aim is therefore to create a significantly higher competitive environment, one which, as a result, would lead to an interest in entering the market. In other words, we are preparing an auction for the fourth operator. If you are watching this, we are currently at the stage of a so-called public hearing with the Czech Telecommunications Authority. In order to get another operator, it is clear that he must see that the market is flexible, that the market operates on the basis of healthy competition, and for this reason, and I am very pleased that it went through as part of the first reading for the relatively high consent of the members of the House, and thank you for this in the sense that - first of all - a fundamental change in the transition from one operator to another, on the basis of such a way that no payment will be required for termination of the contract, b) a so-called one-stop shop is introduced. The fact is that a customer who passes from one operator to another operator will no longer have to communicate this to the original operator, which means that the new operator will take care of it and it will reduce the time from ten days to two days. The Economic Committee discussed the guarantee bill on 15 May, recommended its approval to the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to thank all the members of the Committee for a highly constructive approach during the discussion of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u3	We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as Parliamentary Presses 420/1 and 2. I ask that Mr Martin Jiránek take the floor of the Committee on Economic Affairs and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u4	Hello, colleagues, colleagues, Mr Vice-President. I will be very brief in my opening statement. The minister introduced the change we're making in the first place. We have already discussed this more at the first reading here, so only as important information for you that the Economic Committee has adopted a comprehensive amendment that Patrik Nacher and, of course, in cooperation with the Ministry have prepared. We agreed that he would present it in detail in the general debate. Then, at the end of the general debate, I will have two more sentences. Thank you. Otherwise, of course, there are other amendments, which I assume will be presented by individual colleagues, including myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u5	I am now opening up a general debate in which I have Mr Radek Koten signed up, and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Allow me to read the amendment to this draft law, which reads in paragraph 33 (5): "The operator providing the public communications network shall, for all calls to the emergency number, immediately make available to the operator who operates the emergency call station, localisation and other data that will enable the caller to be identified.' It shall be added: "If, in connection with a call to the emergency number of the terminal device from which the call is made, it is possible to automatically create and send a text message to the workplace for receiving a call to the emergency number, containing information on where the caller is located, the consent of the person to whom the data relate shall not be necessary to create and send such a text message.' [[12.10 hours]] Reason. With the development of technologies in the field of electronic communications, tools are developed to save lives, protect health or property. Such tools include e.g.: also creating localization messages in Advanced Mobile Location format - hereinafter AML, which is defined in the ETSI technical standard. Specifically, it's called. Emergency Location Services, ELS. It's developed by Google. Its support is implemented in terminal devices with both Google Android and Apple iOS operating system. AML complies with Directive 2002/22/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services, so-called the Universal Service Directive and the Commission Recommendation of 25 July 2003 on the processing of information on the place calling on electronic communications networks in order to improve the identification of the location calling for emergency services. I would just point out here that this service now operates in eight countries of the European Union, e.g. Austria, Estonia, Belgium, and in eight others are preparing to launch in the nearest period. I've already described that principle. Basically, if you're calling 112 - and I'm stressing it, it's only on the emergency line - the mobile phone will automatically send a location SMS to the operator on the emergency line. So that someone doesn't happen to think that's another way to spy on an ordinary citizen who doesn't call 911. I would very much like to stress that here. I would just point out that this tool can save a lot of people's lives, because usually people who are in some bad life situation crash on the highway, crash on some communication, so few people watch where they are. Thanks to this service, the operator will be able to send rescues for the person who calls the 911 call, basically immediately. And as for the rescue, it'll be much faster, far more efficient. In addition, any installation of apps into a mobile phone falls off because a lot of people apps like ambulance, mountain service, etc. it doesn't have it installed, so here it will work completely automatically and it will reduce substantially the time to save this person, for example. even for mountain rescuers it will be a great benefit, because in the terrain of the mountains it is much worse. So the AML SMS system will produce a significantly larger effect than the previously promoted apps, so it will not be necessary to record and test the app on your phone. It works fully automatically when dialing the emergency number on all satellite phones. That's all. I will come forward later in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u7	There. Next in the general debate, Mr Patrik Nacher will speak and will be prepared with priority rights by rapporteur Martin Jiránek. Please. [[From the dime notice to the de facto.]] I'm sorry, I missed a point of fact. So Mr. Brázdil will perform with a factual remark that has just come up. So please, your two minutes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u8	Thank you. Sorry, I don't want to hold up. Anyway, good idea, fine, but at the moment, please, we're confusing the public. 112, yeah, it's an integrated rescue system, but in the event of health problems, I dare say it's a delay - a call to a firefighter, they'll forward it to you in a data sentence, yes, they'll know where the person is. But there are much more advantageous things like the Ambulance app. Yes, you have to install it, that's true. On the other hand, it's going directly to the ambulance counter, it's also known where the person is, and he can start phone assistance right away. I mean, you don't know anything about the wire, you know, he's under pressure, so somebody's gonna give him some advice. So I'm not rejecting it, it's a good option, it's a little extra, but I'd like to maybe even the public - please, in the case of health problems and car accidents etc. First of all, it's about life, then it's about getting fired and stuff like that. Therefore, call in our Republic number 155, and not by calling 155, but by downloading into your mobile phone a smart app called Ambulance, which can do many other things. And at one of the buttons you press, you immediately call number 155 and the operator knows where you are. It's not lobbying for nothing, it's accelerating the entire chain. Trying to be with you as soon as possible. And among other things, you'll also find places in that app where you can find out where the defibrillators are now automatic, you'll find there when you're flipping in it, you'll take the train, how to behave, I don't know, to a fracture, to massive bleeding, and other things. So maybe it's not bad that I said here that it's nice what's going on, but there's another option. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u9	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Jiří Mašek. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u10	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I will join my colleague Brázdil, and I would just like to appeal that there is indeed a 155 line for health problems, and she already has a functional program called Rescue with full location, absolutely accurate, used by the mountain service. And today it's because 112 doesn't have it yet, so we're helping 120 to navigate those units into place. However, I agree, of course, that the hundred and twenty-one can do it, it is a European emergency number. But I'm signing what Milan said here, 155 equals health problems. It's faster, and we already have a location today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u11	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher will now speak in the general debate and will be prepared with the priority right of the rapporteur, Mr Martin Jiránek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, good morning. I would like to present to you in the context of the general debate, and then, in detail, I will say this precisely with the figures, the amendments relating to the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act. As the Minister said, the basic government amendment is based mainly on four parameters that should be changed and improved. One is the so-called one. one-stop shop, i.e. the fact that I can only replace this operator with a visit and a settlement with a new operator, a reduction from ten to two days, the abolition of fines that today amount to 20 per cent for consumers and 100 per cent for entrepreneurs at zero after three months and the inclusion of consumers and micro and tradesmen in this particular group. After a thorough debate within the framework of the two subcommittees, we have come up with a comprehensive amendment here with my colleague Jiránek, who is the rapporteur for this press, and in agreement with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which specifies and extends some of these things. I will allow myself very briefly to describe them. First of all, it's a better identification of the participant. We had it in the original proposal, then it came out of it after the debate on the Sub-Committee on Consumer Protection, then we put it back there - it's called. the participant's verification code, so that the participant is clearly identified, is not just a document. The verification code generates and generates now its existing operator. Another clarification is that the two days that were there, we made it clear that it was two working days to make it very clear. We have united a group of micro and tradesmen only to tradesmen so that persons for those operators are clearly identified, while we have come to the view that there must be some kind of honest statement, they will not get all the data, etc. Furthermore, we have specified in the proposal that the transfer of numbers will be free of charge, and we have written this explicitly, so that whoever changes the number will not receive it - now I do not mean a fine, but will not pay any cost. Another change that extends and has its logic is the refund of credit in the case of prepaid cards, within 30 days. Then we have read the amendment so that we do not extend the negotiations indefinitely to a fixed date of 1. 1. 2020. However, since we are now only at second reading, as you can see, colleagues, we now have an amendment to this comprehensive amendment, it is shifted to 1. 4. 2020 because we already thought we'd have it back from the Senate now, or it'll be signed by the president, that's not what's happening. [[12.20 hours]] The last big change is a comparative calculator, independent, which should compare the prices of operators, so that it can be provided by an independent institution, something like the ČTÚ etc. This is one comprehensive amendment. That's what the minor changes are, like I told you about them. That's the verification code, the displacement, which I'm very sorry about, from that one. 1st to 1 April 2020. After all, the last amendment is based on the European Parliament's regulation and concerns sanctions. Because for operators there was an obligation to regulate SMS prices abroad within the EU 15. 5. 2019, where there are some given prices. I won't keep you here. In a minute of calling, for a text, the obligation itself is to last five years, as well as the sanctions that we propose. On all these amendments, both complex and smaller ones, which we have given my colleague Martin Jiránek, I will then apply directly to those figures in a detailed debate. I'm not gonna repeat the contents again. Another amendment is made by Mr Jiránek himself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u13	There. Now with priority rights, Mr rapporteur Mr Jiránek. Please, you have the floor. And Mr. Leo Luzar will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u14	Thank you for the floor. I will now introduce you to my two amendments. One, under number 3108, solves a lot of specific situations in frequency usage. The Electronic Communications Act currently does not allow the regulator, the Czech Telecommunications Authority, to deal with situations where operators operating on the electronic communications market conclude a contract the subject matter of which is frequencies obtained in the selection procedure for the allocation of radio frequencies, and on the basis of this contract, these frequencies are used in a way that circumvents the conditions of the selection procedure. For example, this may be a situation where the rental service of circuits on the given frequencies will circumvent the spectral limits set by the Czech Telecommunications Authority under the conditions of the selection procedure. Thus, this proposed change will give the Czech Telecommunications Authority a new tool that can prevent manipulation and speculation with frequencies. This is also important given the upcoming auction, which has the task of strengthening competition in the market. This was very complicated. Maybe these cases don't have to be too many, maybe there won't be any. But in simple terms, what I want the terms of the auction set by the Czech Television to go around as little as possible, ideally at all. And this regulation will extend the ČTÚ's powers so that if someone tries to do so, the regulator can react more actively, which now cannot. Well, that's the first change. And the second amendment, 3109, is that this amendment, which was pre-negotiated with the Ministry of Energy and the Czech Republic, is a model of regulation for energy networks, which was implemented for the same reason already in the previous parliamentary term in 2017, when it is the House press 927, and allows for the expropriation of the service according to Section 104 of Act No. 127 on electronic communications on which an existing and legally established public communications network is based. I therefore note that the proposed legislation is not unique in the legal order. The possibility of expropriating rights for established or existing constructions explicitly also allows, for example, Law No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road. The expropriation of services for existing buildings will only be possible according to the proposal, provided that the owner of the public communications network does not thwart the establishment of the service in a legally foreseeable manner. It's also a little complicated. As far as I'm concerned, those energy guys are figuring out the numbers of those experiences that were happening, and I don't have a single case yet. It's just sure it'll be there. The proposed amendment responds to the fact that there is currently no legal possibility for the owner of the public communications network, the cable in the country, to seek the establishment of a service in cases where the legal title ceases to exist to use the land for the location of its public network. In the absence of agreement between the owner of the land and the owner of the public communications network, there is an obligation to remove the public communication network from the land in question, thereby disengaging a larger number of customers. Basically, it's about the new owner who's got, like, three meters of cable on his property that needs to be connected to ten thousand people so that he can't force the operator to dig it up and hobble around his meadow without agreement, which, of course, increases the costs in order. It is quite common for energy networks and there was already a detailed debate around this in 2017. Well, that's my two changelings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u15	Thank you. I'll read the apology. Dr. Jaroslav Dvořák, Mr. Member, apologizes from 12.15 to the end of the day for reasons of work. I will therefore now ask for Mr Leo Luzar's speech, so far the last application for the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to defend my amendment, which I will read and apply to in detail in the debate. The proposal presented to you is quite a welcome possible step towards attractive and reducing the basic requirement of citizens, i.e. the prices of data and telecommunications services in the Czech Republic. I regret that this House must approach this market in this way in order to force operators to listen to calls from citizens on cheap data and cheap calls. Let's face it, it's a problem. I'm sure we wouldn't have thought of looking for ways in the law and inventing loopholes to open the market more so that we could keep an eye on the operators, as they say, if they had come up with the initiative themselves and look for ways to make the market more attractive. So much for the model that is presented. And I have to say that I welcome him because, again, it turns out that the state is simply necessary within the framework of regulation, it is necessary to find ways to get private capital to be more friendly to people. Now for a specific proposal. It is not complicated, but it only deals with the question that is proposed in the proposal, meaning automatic or organized and simplified movement of the number. I'll try to explain it quite humanly. You're interested in changing the operator. You no longer have to worry about this design. You enter with the new operator - I want to see you - and he will arrange the rest. It is simply solved how it should be done. I am only concerned that something similar in this model does not appear here that we know from energy and changes to an energy supplier, when under a precisely similar model, that means reducing energy prices, we have made it easier for citizens to change their energy operator, energy supplier, and at that moment there are dozens of companies that are doing that service for those energy suppliers. Now a big quote service. I call them bastards. The service is that they have a contract with the energy provider and they're orbiting people and forcing them to change the operator. They're forcing them to change suppliers under different tricks. I'm not explaining them here. This proposal, which we have before us, in this analogy, could - could, I stress - open a similar system of business. In other words, entrepreneurs will appear to be chasing customers for operators, while the draft law defines a range of data that must be obtained from the customer in order for the automatic transfer to take place, so this data is quite easily available on the free electronic market. Both the name, date of birth, residence and these matters are quite easily accessible. And the instruction you give was that it would be verified. Some two-phase verification using a mobile number, etc. When we came across the debate, it turned out that it has not yet been completed in this state, so that immediately the validity of this law would come into force of some two-step verification. At least I understood it from the expression of the Czech Telecommunications Authority and others that although they plan to introduce it as verification of the transfer, they do not yet have it, as they say, on paper exactly how it will work. [[12.30 hours]] That's why my proposal changes one or two words. The proposal mentions that the receiving service provider is entitled to verify the identity of the person it transfers. Permission. But don't be. He's only entitled to require this identity to verify that the one he wants to transfer is really him, that he's not some middleman, or maybe. third party. And I'm putting in that word that he's not authorized, but he's obliged to verify. In other words, he gets the duty of the one who gives the number to verify that the person who really wants to transfer it is the person and he's not some middleman or some kind of broker. Son of a bitch. Because of the law, of course, the person has the opportunity to immediately affect the operator, to ask for correction that it wasn't him, that he didn't give the order, but if you imagine practical implementation, you might be a month without a phone number before the operators react. And as you can see, there may be quite a lot of pressure on how to avoid it and how to get these things here. So my simple amendment is going to make those who get, that is, start doing the customer service in their favor, that they start bringing in those customers and handing out the administration for them, they have to prove that they really work for the particular person they're getting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u17	I'll read another apology. This is Mrs Helena Válková, today from 12.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. So I don't have another application for the general debate, so I'm gonna look around the room and see if anybody else - even for the general debate, Mr. Ambassador? So please, Mr. Martin Jiránek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u18	The writer just took it away from me because she needs to photograph a certain formulation. If you would advise me on this complex changeling, Mr Vice-President. There's such a point that we could accept the complex changeling as a carrier, but we have to vote on it. Or we can vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u19	Well, you give it to me at second reading, you can give it to me orally, it's not a problem, you can put it here orally and write it with your hand and put it on my desk. That's not a problem either. Then, of course, the question is the legislative correctness. You will join him at second reading and we will vote on him at third reading. That's no problem. You can submit, even here in plenary, you can submit your amendment at second reading. [[Mr Jiránek: He is served.]] Yes, so then sign up for it in a detailed debate. As I see it, Mr Nacher is registered, so it will be done. Then I'll ask if there's another application for the general debate. I do not see another application, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. The rapporteur? Mr. Secretary? Interested? You're not interested. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate and Mr Radek Koten is the first to have a detailed debate. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u20	Thank you, I would therefore like to sign up for the amendment, which is under House document 3119. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u21	I would just like to remind you - now Mr Patrik Nacher is in order - that you can, of course, submit amendments to the bill during a detailed debate. other proposals, if this is not a written proposal, or if this is not a written proposal. If there is no written proposal for justification, the Member shall justify the proposal in a detailed debate pursuant to Section 94 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u22	Thank you for the floor. As promised, here I am reading the specific figures on the amendments, as I explained in their content. You will find the comprehensive amendment under number 2788, the basic comprehensive amendment already adopted by the Economic Committee. And the amendments to the comprehensive amendment, those amendments are already being made to the complex amendment. Under number 2892 is the verification code, 3096 is the extension to April 1st and 3097 are the sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u23	Thank you. The rapporteur, Mr Jiránek, wants to speak with priority right now in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u24	Well, I'll be quick, too. I have already justified these two amendments, so I am now signing up for them, and it is Amendment 3108 and Amendment 3109. It is an extension of the powers of the Czech Telecommunications Authority and the service I just imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u25	Yes, that should be enough. Now, then, Mr Leo Luzar, Mr Radim Fiala will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u26	Thank you. I also want to sign up for my amendment registered in the system under number 3068. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u27	Thank you. So now the chairman of the MP's SPD Radim Fiala, the chair of the MP's Pirate Club Jakub Michálek, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u28	Thank you for the floor. honourable Members, according to the Rules of Procedure, I would also like to sign up for my amendment, which is already loaded into the system under number 2887. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u29	I therefore now call on Mr Jakub Michálek, whom I have - yes, please, Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would like to, or would like to propose an accompanying resolution on this press and it concerns a little different material than the one we have been discussing here, but it also concerns the material which is also in the Electronic Communications Act in Section 97 para. 3 and 4 and were recently judged by the Constitutional Court on issues relating to data retention. That means that everyone, as we have mobile phones, as we have computers, is laying down about us with telephone operators, where we are now and who we are writing to. I don't think it's normal. The Court also considers that this is not normal in this form and, for this reason, the European directive which was in force was annulled by the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2014 in Decision Digital Rights Ireland C-293/12, C594/12. Finally, the Court stated in Tele2/Watson's decision that the area-based monitoring of the communication is therefore contrary to the European Directive on privacy under the conditions of electronic communication. That's C-203/15, C-698/15. Our Constitutional Court also assessed this question, but it only assessed it in terms of compliance with the Constitution and concluded that it does not contradict the Constitution, although we believe that it is contrary to European law and that the regulation we have today in the law on electronic communications is outdated and the Ministry of the Interior and other institutions, the government, should consider whether it is not time to update this regulation in the light of the fundamental rights of citizens of digital age. So I propose an accompanying resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to consider the need to update the provisions of Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, following the abolition of the directive on data retention by the Court of Justice of the European Union and the relevant caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 3 and 4 of the Electronic Communications Act in order to bring citizens' fundamental rights into line. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-12-ps2017-033-04-008-025.u31	I don't have another application for a detailed debate, so I'll take a look around. I am therefore ending the debate in detail. I ask both the rapporteur and the appellant if they are interested in final words. There's no interest in the final words, so I'm closing the negotiations, ending the second reading of this proposal. So now we're going to go to the next press, and that's it.
