ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended /German press 490/ - 3rd reading I ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which I welcome between us, Minister Jana Maláčová, and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. The amendments are set out in the Parliament's press 490/3, which was delivered on 27 September 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as Parliament's press 490/4. I am now asking the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we have finally come to discuss the third reading of our proposal to raise parents to CZK 300,000. You know, 12 years ago, a three-year parent's monthly minimum wage...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u3	Sorry, I'm sorry, and I'm asking the House for peace so that we can continue to remain calm and discuss this point as it should be. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. You know, 12 years ago, a three-year parental leave was a minimum wage. And do you know how it is today? It's about half today. However, if our proposal to raise our parents to 300,000 is approved, we will get back to the three-year parent to at least 75 percent of today's minimum wage. I would like to remind you that for 220 grand today you will buy about 80 percent of what you bought in 2008. Each one can fit himself - food, diapers, toys, sanitary aids or medications. I take it it's an injustice to families that we need to fix... There's not much to think about here in this atmosphere...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u5	I would once again call on the Chamber of Deputies to remain calm. We are already acting, so please those who do not want to discuss this point or anything else, so that they leave us and act in the foyer or somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u6	By this bill we want more children to be born in the Czech Republic, because if families are sure and have the support of the state, they will, we believe, be willing to have more children. I think that in the Czech Republic no one should be afraid that they will not feed their children or that they will make their families fundamentally worse in the quality of their lives. I would also like to remind you that parental is not a vacation, but hard work. Beautiful work, but still hard. Even now, it seems very unfair for young people to have to save up to start a family. Getting basic equipment for the baby from the stroller to the crib to the clothes, then - each of us knows who experienced it - there is a blackout of one income. We know that diapers and artificial nutrition are costing thousands a month. This is exactly what social democracy wants to change, because people who do everything right, work, pay taxes, raise their children, care for their loved ones, have to have support in our system, and for them should work a very good social policy. [[The noise and restlessness in the room lasts.]] I remind you that in our country, people still want to have at least two children. That means two kids are ideal. But we have 1.7 babies per woman. It is more than our neighbors, more than in Slovakia, Poland or Hungary, but the analysis of sociologist Dan Prokop shows and data obtained during research -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u7	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you again and ask the Chamber of Deputies to remain calm. There's really a lot of other meetings going on here, and it's hard to hear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u8	One would be afraid that the parents and the MPs are not interested. This results from the analysis of sociologist Dan prokop and his research Transformation of Czech Society from 2017. In fact, there is only one thing that can be deduced from this - that young people need better conditions for starting a family. As you know, today's parental increase, everyone's fighting for it, all the political parties. I think that of the nine entities represented in the Chamber of Deputies, he is not the only one against it. However, I remind you that it was a social democracy that pushed the increase of parents into the government program, because we know that parental, that is, financial support during the first few years after the birth of the child, when the mother has to take care of the child, is crucial. You also know that the journey here to the third reading was very thorny. I have advocated the most righteous option from the start, and I am convinced of that so far, that means an increase for families with the youngest child within four years, because I am still convinced that we cannot punish the families who have returned to work in this way. However, a year ago, when the choice was made, I was lonely as a stake in a fence, and I listened from all sides as I was throwing away. Especially from parties that now propose parental for all - Pirates, KDU, ODS. And what did not happen - blue was orange and social feelings woke up on the right-wing sides after 12 years. But do you know why I don't believe this proposal, your sudden social awakening? In 2008 and 2009, we are talking about Mirek Topolánek's right-wing government, you let families pay fees for doctors and children, as well as for newborns. That's what I call family feeling! And you continued this support even at a time when you were no longer in government, thank God. While social democracy pushed through the guarantee of places in kindergarten and for two-year-olds a few years ago, because not all children are born with a rope to the beginning of the school year, the ODS didn't think of anything better than proposing the abolition of this guarantee. Obviously for some of you it will be news, but available preschool care is crucial for young working families with children. It often decides whether families will have another child, and in Czech conditions we talk about the second child, that is, if we have available preschool care, it often decides that families, working families with children, will decide for the second child, which is so missing in Czech conditions. So you wanted to collect money from the newborns and the certainty that we gave the families at one point, you soon canceled. That's what I call the idea of right-wing family policy in practice! And that's why I don't think it's gonna be that hot with your social feelings. But that was just a small turn. You all know that we are in the coalition for budgetary reasons, and it was yes, we have decided the option of support for everyone with the youngest child within four years. We did. Social democracy wanted to help all the families from the start, because we think that would be the most righteous way. However, so that not all of them would eventually be sharpened, we began to discuss other options. And the result? The result is a coalition compromise that is not perfect. It is not perfect, but 80 percent of all parents' families will be helped. And I'm not ashamed of that compromise. The parental contribution, as set up in the Czech Republic, is quite complex, but this complexity and complexity gives us freedom of decision. This complexity allows everyone to set up one of the most private things in their lives, family life, as they see fit. People who want long care can and will receive support from the state. People who want to get back to work soon can and will get support from the state. I think that's very fair. The proposal we're coming up with has basic constraints. The possibility of exhausting 80,000 more will depend on two factors. The first is the remaining age of a child under four years and the total amount of allowance that we can or can draw from families. This depends on the previous income, and basically, it can be said that the maximum amount that a family can draw is the amount of maternity. This means the remaining number of months until the fourth birthday and the maximum amount per mother may be drawn monthly. The transitional provision explicitly states that families with active entitlement to parental allowance, i.e. those of the families of the 1st grade, are entitled to an increase. 1st next year, 2020, they have not yet exhausted the full amount. An adjustment by means of a transitional provision is a perfectly standard thing through which old legislation goes into a new one. And since there are objections in the media space that it's unconstitutional, I'd like to respond. I think and believe that it is not unconstitutional. However, neither I nor you can make decisions about this, only the Constitutional Court can decide. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the finals with parents, but the increase in parental support for families in the Czech Republic is not the end of this government. I want Czech families to have the attention of the state they have in developed countries. I want the establishment of a family not to be seen as a decline in the standard of living. That is why I already have a number of specific proposals in the legislative process, which are now comprehensively addressing the support of families in the Czech Republic and its biggest shortcomings. It is the support of the nursery, we want to use a functioning children's group, we come up with a system of state funding and we improve some things in children's groups and we leave what is good about children's groups. We come up with the support of flexible forms of work. In the amendment to the Labour Code, we are introducing a so-called shared job and we will help entrepreneurs or employers from European funds who choose part-time jobs for their employees and employees financially. [[9.20 hours]] At the Coalition Council, we're finishing up the form of backed-up maintenance. There is a key, really crucial, recovery of maintenance so that it is normal in the Czech Republic to pay for their children in case of breakup. Execute any or the most necessary assumption that we should introduce backed-up maintenance. Last but not least, the biggest barrier to starting families is very expensive and unavailable housing. We also want to change that and help working families with children. But now, on individual amendments. Mr Bauer's amendment, Amendment A. In an unexpected fit of social feeling, the Member proposes extending parental access to all families with the youngest child within four years. That means my original proposal, which I have been promoting from the start, which I think is fair and fair. Yes, it's an ideal option. And I did everything I could to get her to pass. YES, however, was opposed, they agreed only to increase parenting for active recipients. However, I mentioned this at the outset. I would like to draw attention to the fact that without this political compromise, there would be a risk that all families would eventually be sharpened and that no one would receive a parental contribution. Perhaps if the right instead of hitting me and pointing at the throwing she is now participating in, my proposal was supported as loud a year ago as it is now, perhaps it would have turned out differently. As they say, I'd be late to chase. Mr Bauer, on the last committee on social policy, sighed that he was looking for 2.6 billion. in the budget, so that he can enforce this amendment. I told him I felt for him. I was looking for 8.6 billion in the spring, among other things. However, with this sigh, Mr Bauer actually admitted that there is nothing left to take from. It is a pity, therefore, that the ODS did not support, for example, our proposal for a bank tax in the spring of this year. I therefore give a negative opinion on this amendment. As far as Mrs Golasowská amendment is concerned, Amendment C, Mrs Bauer proposes the same thing as Mr Bauer, so that the increase applies to families with already exhausted parental contributions. However, the problem is that this proposal is essentially unrealistic because it introduces entitlement to a one-off payment of an increased amount, even retroactively. However, it does not introduce the process itself, which would lead to this one-off payback and is therefore technically wrong. I therefore also give a negative opinion on this amendment. As regards the amendment letter G of Mr Martínek, Mr Martínek also proposes to extend the proposal to those who have already exhausted the parental contribution but also have a child under the age of four. With the introduction of a degressive calculation of the total amount in relation to the child's age. In principle, this is one of the options that we considered at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs during the coalition negotiations in the spring of this year, but which we rejected as a model that brings more complications than benefits. At the same time, the proposal contains legislative errors, because the Member regulates entitlement to an amount of 80 thousand, but in reality, as this amendment is written, families with older children will not be entitled to the full amount and will receive only a proportional part of the child's age or, respectively, from the remaining age of the child to the fourth birthday. The translation is therefore that a proposal for CZK 80,000 is legally promised to all, but according to the age of the child it is gradually reduced and the family in the finals gets only CZK 20,000, so really there is no claim for a full increase of CZK 80,000. I therefore take a negative position on this proposal to extend the family circle. As regards Amendment B to Mrs Adamová Pekarová, Mrs Adamová Pekarová, by her proposal, regulates the rules on public health insurance, which extends the range of persons for whom the insurance State pays, as well as to grandparents caring for a child under seven years of age or two children under 15 years of age. I take a negative opinion on the proposal because it is an adjustment in the Ministry of Health and is not related to the Act on State Social Support. It's a classic sticker. As regards Mr Chvojka's amendment D, Mr Chvojka proposes to adjust the recalculation of the amount of parental contribution in the death of one or more children from multiples. Today, when a child of twins or multiples dies, a parent's contribution is recounted as a result of such tragedy. You know that, according to a coefficient of 1.5, the multiples are entitled to a higher parent. So the situation is that a family that has already exhausted the right to one child of 220 grand suddenly finds itself without the financial support of the state, regardless of the fact that it is still caring for another small child and counting on support. I need not mention that such an insensitive state intervention in such a tragic family situation is at least inappropriate. Therefore, I agree with the proposal submitted for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs because it allows for a sensitive, unpredictable family situation to be addressed and gives the authority to assess it individually and to respond to specific cases. As regards Amendment F by Mrs Pastuchová, the aim of this proposal is to remove permanent residence from the conditions for entitlement to the housing allowance. I must say that I agree with Mrs Pastuchová's amendment, and I fully agree with her. After all, it is based on the impulses of the labour authorities. However, I remind you that this proposal is prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as part of the government's proposal to revise housing and employment benefits. We will finalize the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and send it into an inter-ministerial commentary procedure in December of this year. The problem is that this amendment by Mrs Pastuchová was probably not consulted for time reasons and contains serious legislative technical deficiencies. I'm going to make it clear what the problem is, because I think the target is good, really good, the problem is in the details. The proposal removes the condition of permanent residence, but does not replace it with the condition of use of the apartment. In fact, the relationship to the use of a specific apartment will disappear completely from the legislative text. The proposed adjustment therefore allows to apply for a benefit on the basis of a valid lease agreement or ownership of the apartment, but regardless of whether the tenant or owner lives in the apartment, whether the apartment is inhabited entirely by other persons. Its acceptance will thus enable one person to legally pay more housing contributions. I drew your attention to this legislative technical error in my letter on 9 October. It has probably been copied from material distress conditions in proportion to one without taking into account other conditions. [[9.30 hours]] For the sake of clarity, let me give you an example of the effects of this amendment. Because I think that this is really well meant, but once again, the problem lies in the details. Somebody owns an apartment building with 20 apartment units. This owner himself lives in a family home somewhere else. In housing units in its apartment building, housing provides low-income households. Thanks to this amendment by Mrs Pastuchová, the owner can apply for 20 housing contributions per apartment. The investigation will confirm that there are persons in the apartments listed by the owner on individual applications and that at the same time the owner does not live in any of the apartments mentioned because he lives elsewhere. So the terms under the letter of the law will be met. The office of employment of this proposed text of the law will allow the owner to grant housing contributions to all 20 apartments. [[by]] All 20 of them. According to the text of the proposal, only those persons living in the apartments who are listed in the application but not the owner's income and costs will be counted for the evaluation of the entitlement to the housing allowance. However, the contribution shall be granted to the owner and paid to the owner. I think this situation is unimaginable. In its own way, it would be absurd and, in essence, would only strengthen the trade in poverty that we have been trying to prevent for several years. The biggest crooks, that is, the traffickers, the poverty traders who, on the basis of the after-stake contracts, are staying in their apartments of socially weak families, could, after approval of this amendment, ask for a contribution to all these apartments and receive, for example, twenty or thirty, or we also know that they are poverty traders who rent hundreds of flats, so they could ask for hundreds of housing contributions. I don't think we want this. I understand that in the case of such an amendment, the Labour Office could interpret the law in its own way to copy today's settings, and that will go until one of those poverty traders puts us on trial. And as we all know, the courts decide according to the applicable legislation, not according to the guidelines of the Labour Office. Basically, we're gonna put justice back on the line. But I understand that, and I repeat it once again, that the Member meant well. And I repeat once again, in December, we are sending a comprehensive government proposal to interdepartmental commentary proceedings where this will be captured. For this reason, although it was a good intention, but a bad implementation, I take a negative position on this proposal, because this amendment would further promote trade in poverty and allow further abuse of benefits, thereby putting even more burden on the state budget. And now we come to Mrs Richterová's amendments, which have tabled four amendments overall. However, Amendment E4, which regulates the conditions for entitlement to the housing allowance, does not contain such serious deficiencies. This means that it is very similar to Mrs Pastuchová's amendment. In this proposal, the condition of permanent residence is maintained and the condition of use of the apartment is newly added. In case of doubt that a person does not live in a reported apartment, a local investigation may be carried out and subsequently excluded from the heading. However, there are once again legislative technical errors in this amendment. There is an incorrect use of the term "real residence" which is not related to permanent residence or to the use of the apartment. Mrs Richterová's amendment would not have done as much damage as Mrs Pastuchová's amendment, but I nevertheless reject both proposals. I really appreciate the efforts of both Members to adjust the demands of the housing contribution, but we have already discussed several times on the Committee on Social Policy, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is preparing a government proposal, where all these things will be adjusted correctly technically so that the spiral, the swelling spiral of trade in poverty, does not actually grow any further, and the purpose and good intention that both Members had was achieved and that housing benefits would not be abused. For this reason, I give a negative opinion on both proposals. And because you're probably going to be interested in what this government proposal is about, we're going to be calling it a batch inventory at this point, and we're going to be preparing the following changes: a fundamental simplification and clarification of the whole system. The introduction of functional or, if you wish, hygiene standards as a prerequisite for granting housing and payout benefits. We want the payment of benefits to be linked to compulsory schooling. We want the payment of benefits to be conditional on the activation of the persons concerned. I repeatedly say that we cannot defeat the trade in poverty if people who live in excluded localities and are actually caught in this system until they work. I know their situation is difficult, but without compulsory schooling, without fulfillment and without their activation, that is, without work, the problem will not be solved. Five. We want to change the normalization settings, that is, we want to make a more realistic dose ceiling and allow municipalities to influence the amount of these doses. Six. We want to extend the penalty exclusion from the Labour Office's records for repeated non-cooperation to six and nine months depending on the seriousness of this non-cooperation. Seven. We want to strictly, strictly control the disability regime of job seekers and, last but not least, also strictly control work black in people receiving benefits. Those are our fantasies. Some concrete proposals may be added in the coming weeks. For example, we discussed foster benefits on Tuesdays at the working group, etc. Once again, I say that I take a negative position on Mrs Richterová E4's amendment. As far as Amendment E1 is concerned, this is an amendment which introduces regular annualisation of the parental contribution on a monthly basis, on the basis of the same variables that are used for pension valorisation. If I were to describe Mrs Richterová's amendment in one sentence, I would use the term chosen path is disproportionate to the result achieved. Compared to the valuation of pensions, it is very easy to point out the illogicality of this proposal. I have three main arguments here. First, while the pension is granted as an insurance benefit in one lump sum, the parent is like an insured benefit and it can be terminated and then renewed, even repeatedly, basically every month. You can't do that with pensions. I still explain that it is possible to end and restore a parent every month, its speed can be changed once every quarter of a year. Two. If we are talking about valorisation at the date of entitlement to a benefit, we are talking about parenting, for pensions this only occurs once a year. This means that we are valorising pensions once a year, and we would valorise parents every month under this amendment. However, in the link to this every month, allowing the renewal and suspension of parents would create room for rescinding and stopping, thereby supporting purposeful manipulation and speculation because of the amount of parenting that will be higher and higher every month. The crucial difference is that parental benefit is not insurance benefit. While the pension is granted in different amounts according to the years worked and the previous earnings, the parent is designed in our country as a single benefit equal for all, determined by the overall target value, which is unrelated to the years worked. That means the parenting principle is that there are no differences between children. [[9.40 hours]] Here I would like to stress that I am very supportive of valorisation, and I am its advocate for the long term, because if it wasn't for social democracy, we still have 220,000 parents next year. However, the chosen form, which follows the valorisation mechanism of pensions, where the valorisation formula is contained directly in the text of the law, is a completely non-standard procedure. I would like to remind you that writing laws has rules, traditions, and needs to be followed. The basic prerequisite for legislation is generality, clarity, its clarity without additional input barriers in the form of a necessary deeper knowledge of mathematics or statistics. And I'm sorry, but it won't even help a reference to a calculator. With all due respect, this is simply not how legislation is created. Mrs Richterová's proposal is therefore unnecessarily complicated and introduces essentially several thousand-dollar differences between families and children born within one year. While in January, Mother will have a parental allowance of 301,000, for example, another mother, who will begin to receive it in November, will have it 10,000 higher, which means 311,000. How do you explain this to moms who have almost the same old kid and play on the same field? At the same time, however, by the amendment being written in such a way that the target amount of the allowance depends on the date of entitlement to the allowance, not on the date of the child's birth, the proposal will allow a targeted termination and renewal of the parental allowance, even over and over again each month in order to obtain a claim for a higher total amount of parental allowance. As I say, in January 301,000, November 311. Does that mean...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u9	I understand, Madam Secretary, the House is restless because it would like to be involved in the debate, but we will have to wait. Please, Madam Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u10	This means, therefore, that if the parent decides to discontinue or terminate the previously receiving parental allowance and subsequently asks for it again, the parent will be entitled to the total annualised amount at the date of re-application and not the original amount calculated. There is no doubt room for speculation here, all for a simple reason. The total amount, as the amendment is written, depends on the date of entitlement to the allowance, not on the date of birth of the child, as it has been so far. I guess I don't even have to explain that the whole combination has money in motherhood, etc., etc. Nor can I leave out the administrative burden and the lack of clarity of the whole system. We have a stable roughly 110 grand that is born every year. [[Children]] You can imagine that only a tenth of these moms regularly ask about the employment office if their parenting and valorisation was correctly measured, because each mom on that playground, even though they have almost the same old kids, will have a completely different amount. I think that's completely absurd. However, the proposal also hides the real risk of reducing the total amount of parental allowance. Contrary to the globalisation of pensions, Mrs Richterová's amendment does not think about a situation where wages will actually fall. This occurred in 2013. According to the proposal, in such a situation, the amount of parental contribution would fall. And I ask: Do you really want the amount of parental contribution to fall in the economic recession? Was this intended by this amendment? I think it's very undesirable. It's very wrong. And I agree that the parent has not been raised for so long, which is why we have come up with this as a social democracy, and that is why we must have a valorisation mechanism and it will be one of the priorities of the Work-Life Balance transposition, which is due to be in force since the middle of 2022, while Mrs Richterová's proposed valorisation is due from January 2021. In the context of the changes that await us, the only thing we would achieve with this change is incredible confusion and multiple conceptual changes for families with children, with young children, in such a short period of time, not even two years. Again, in my opinion, this is not exactly how legislation should be made. I stress that we have an obligation to implement the directive. So, please, let's end the discussion that this is an option. We have an obligation to implement the directive. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the context of the transposition of this European directive, if our legislation is not properly regulated, we are facing a one-off fine of EUR 1 million of 310 000, about CZK 34 million, and a penalty of CZK 2.4 million per day until the directive is transposed. This means that we will have to transpose the directive, otherwise it will be very expensive, and we certainly do not want to burden the state budget this way. Just for the record, we need to introduce, for example, a non-transferable leave for both parents of two months on parental leave, or we will have to extend the paternity to twice the present length. However, the directive does not only regulate the area of care for young children, but overall the possibilities of reconciliation of work and family. It also contains requirements towards the infirmary or, for example, to the working conditions of the parents. The directive also obliges states that care leave must be covered by adequate income, a dose to be enough to motivate parents to use all possible tools to reconcile work and family. Overall, the directive contains 10 requirements for Member States that are interlinked differently, with some of which we are already meeting and some would make our system fundamentally difficult, such as those two non-transferable months for each parent as far as parental matters are concerned. I believe that this is such a big intervention for our legislation on the mother and parent system that it would be appropriate to rethink the entire system because of the Work-Life Balance directive, simplify, conceptually clear, while maintaining the maximum freedom to choose a life strategy for all parents. That means it's gonna be a really big hit. I have also mentioned several times that I personally refer to the option that parental contributions will essentially be like maternity benefits but extended and reflect previous income. This basically introduces an automatic valorisation mechanism that will be understandable and fair. It will actually depend on the previous income, as it is today's cashy motherhood assistance. Families will be able to plan their family life and there won't be such a huge decline in standard of living. As I mentioned earlier, I think it is extremely demotivating to most young people when the birth of a child means a decline in standard of living. That's what we want to change, all the suggestions I have prepared, I've already mentioned. This means that it will be necessary to prepare properly for the transposition of the directive, it will be waiting for us in the second half of 2020 (?) its effectiveness and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs honestly, as we do in the Commission on Fair Pensions, will prepare several different scenarios from left to right, which we will honestly discuss so that the corresponding public debate will take place in particular on the floor of this Parliament, of course in the Senate, with the professional public, with representatives of family (a) parent centres etc., etc., at the level of tripartite, so that the next government can then decide which of these options to choose and approve. I have long argued that our family policy has its shortcomings. My priorities in this area are clear: raising parental support, helping families in need, this means better recovery of maintenance, backed up maintenance, but also in particular support of part-time jobs and support for starting apartments for families with children. Almost all of these proposals are already in the legislative process. [[9.50 hours]] However, because of the shortcomings described, but in particular because Mrs Richterová's amendment is a non-conceptive and non-systemic change, which introduces several thousand differences between the parents' family with the same old children and hides in itself the risk of a fall in parental in the event of an economic recession, and at the same time is extremely administratively demanding, so, for these reasons, the MPSV takes a negative position on the amendment. The other two amendments by Mrs Richterová regulate the same thing, which is why I will address them at once. Proposals increase the maximum limit of monthly contributions for those who could not be established on a daily basis or were too low. That means it's the support of those who didn't work before the baby was born. Those who have worked through previous income can draw higher amounts up to their cash benefits in maternity. And here I point out that both father and mother's income can be documented for the parental allowance. The proposals want to increase the limit from CZK 7,600 to approximately CZK 10,000 a month, respectively. in one case the limit is set at one thirtyth total amount and in the other case at a fixed value of CZK 10 000. The applicant argues, in particular, that by returning to work, and by extending the overall period of parental work, we will exceed the withdrawal period for three years. However, that's not true. After all, the three-year withdrawal period applies to employees who previously worked. But you're talking about people who haven't worked, they don't have a daily basis. This means that the proposal to increase the maximum limit of CZK 7,600 does not apply. The whole amendment is actually based on false consideration, and therefore the arguments are irrelevant. I also want to emphasise the fact that if we allow these families to draw parental contributions in higher amounts and exhaust the entire contribution earlier, the only thing we can achieve is that they sooner fall into the system of material distress. And again, we're talking about families where neither parent has ever worked before. This means that we will allow them to pump parents faster and they will fall into the system of material distress. One more thing, the aspect of this proposal. Parental, as set up today, doesn't prevent anyone from going back to work. We have so much flexibility in parental settings that it is possible to draw parents and work at the same time. This means that this is another consideration which does not correspond to the justification of the amendment. [[Noise in the hall.]] At the same time, this amendment would mean increased expenditure on the state budget by an additional 1.3 billion a year. And once again, they're based on false reflection. I therefore take a negative position on the proposals of both E2 and E3 for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u11	I'm going to ask colleagues who are discussing something else to move these meetings outside the O.R. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that some of you are already impatient and would like to raise your hand for the higher parents. I am very happy for it personally and thank you for all the moms and daddies who are in the same position. They are already eagerly waiting for parental approval in the Chamber of Deputies and want to see how they will be from January. Thank you, then, for supporting the proposal for social democracy, which we actually intend to support working families with children. However, as I said at the outset, with this proposal, family support is just beginning with this financial injection. The aim of the amendment is just a quick financial injection, quick financial assistance to families with young children before we eliminate the fundamental conceptual shortcomings of Czech family policy. And that is precisely the inaccessibility of the nursery, here I have prepared a proposal, the absence of part-time jobs, I mentioned, here I have prepared a proposal that goes to the government, and last but not least the availability of housing for young families with children. I really think we need to get back to the concept of starting apartments for young families with children. I think we all agree that young families with children certainly deserve this financial injection. Just like we all know it's five past 12 o'clock. This change should have been adopted long ago, so that families would know what they were up to and could really plan solidly. So let us now repay our debt to families with small children and raise the parental contribution to CZK 300,000. System change is not a good idea to sew a hot needle, so let us leave the discussion of larger changes to the time when we will tilt the already mentioned European Work-Life Balance Directive and when we will actually lead to systemic changes within the Czech family policy to a really thorough discussion. But once again, the prerequisite is the availability of nursery, the availability of part-time jobs, the availability of starting flats, and the functional recovery of maintenance, as well as functional backed-up maintenance. I would also like to remind you that in December the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will send a proposal for revision, respectively, to inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. an inventory of benefits in particular in the area of housing and employment, or unemployment, and we will try, after long years, to captivate a tip that swells trade in poverty. Once again, I ask you to support this government proposal for all parents who are really eager to expect a higher parent. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, too. Looking at the clock, I remind you that the time for discussing this meeting is only 10.30. I see some applications here. I have here an application with priority right before the debate even opens. [[A disturbance in the hall and a warning that the rapporteur should speak now.]] However, before I give the floor to Vice-President Okamur, I will introduce you to the note cards. Mrs Levová apologizes between 9 and 10 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Mihola from the whole working day on account of a foreign trip, Vice-President Hanzel, for personal reasons for today's day, Mrs Kovářová, on account of the negotiations for the whole day and Mrs Procházková, on account of a foreign trip from the whole day. Now, before opening the debate, after which I have several priority rights, Vice-President Okamura has also made himself known before the debate is opened. The debate has not yet been opened, so I cannot even admit technical at this time. I'm sorry. The rapporteur shall have priority in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to translate into human speech what Minister Maláčová of the CSSD said here on behalf of the government of the ČSSD and the ANO movement with the support of the KSČM. Minister Maláčová told us for ČSSD that she proposes to eliminate a large proportion of parents with children within four years of reaching an increased parental contribution. All of us - speaking for the SPD - suggest that the parental allowance increase from CZK 220,000 to CZK 300,000, by 80,000. And Minister Maláčová has clearly explained to us here and confirmed that she is proposing, on behalf of the government, to exclude a large proportion of the parents from achieving this increased contribution. [[10.00 hours]] I'll be specific so everyone can hear it. For example, he proposes to eliminate parents with young children, who, for example, when a single mother, ended parental leave and the drawing of a parental allowance, for example, as of 1. 9. 2019, of course, primarily for existential reasons, because she doesn't have any money, so she prefers to get into a job where she needs to make a living at all. So such a mother, such as the singles, the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KSČM, proposes to withdraw the claim for an increase of CZK 80,000. So they won't be able to ask for it anymore. That's what the secretary just told us. We know that, of course, I'm glad you confirmed this in public. But there's another thing. You're the one who made the excuse that it was the YES movement, that you didn't. Well, that proves two things, but of course, you have a chance to make things right. Because, firstly, it shows that social policy is not a priority of the ČSSD. Or maybe you're a weak coalition partner. One or the other. Nothing else is possible. Because if it were really your priority, you would stomp against your coalition partner, as you stomped on the exchange of the Minister of Culture, and for several months the Czech Republic was harassed here by internal disputes. So it was a priority for you, we saw that a few months ago, a bed for a certain person, specifically Mr. Šmarda, whom we had never seen before, heard before, now we can't see him either, we can't hear him. So he could be Minister of Culture. That was a priority, that's what we saw. Well, I'd expect you to develop the same activity when you say this kind of nice talk, how you support God knows who, so you develop that kind of activity in your parenting allowance. You haven't evolved. The only thing you could do, Madam Secretary, is an excuse for your coalition partner, the ANO movement. And I assume that ANO's representatives will also be able to define against it. Because you set them up. But it's either that it's not a priority, or you're a weak coalition partner. It is simply the fact that in your proposal you propose that a large proportion of parents with children under the age of four do not reach an increase of CZK 80,000. But to be constructive, because the SPD is a constructive party and a positive party, we're here to offer you a solution. And it is the amendment to your bad proposal, and it is the amendment made by Mrs Šafránková and Mr Bauer of the ODS, so these two Members have put it into the system. There will be a vote on it, where it returns as we wish, we in the SPD, and in order for all parents with children to reach the increased parental contribution of the 80 000, within four years. So, Minister and CSSD, if you're serious about this, I hope, and I'm saying this here publicly and we're going to say it on TV, so you're going to vote in favour of our amendment. It's a famous proverb: Not words, but deeds! So you said that as if you were up for it, so you don't have to, just press the button, namely, your Members, because you are not an MP, but your Members would press the button, so let's take a look at that vote. And based on how you're gonna vote, we're gonna be communicating in the media again, because we're gonna compare your performance, which is already on the record, like you said you were up for, like your party. And now we will look at the vote of your Members. And believe me, two years before the election, it will be time to communicate precisely this, and this vote of yours. Let's see how you do it. So I hope you will vote in favour of our amendment. And because, as I say, the SPD movement really is for all parents who have children under the age of four to be entitled to an increased parental contribution, not like the ones you're putting forward here, to have it selectively. You've selected some decent and working parents from that possibility so that they don't get to reach it. And that's really discriminatory, and we don't agree with that. So this is a demonstration of pro-population policy, of course in quotation marks a demonstration of pro-population policy, the CSSD in practice - and this government at all, to be fair again. So you just select between decent working people, some you give, some you don't, but mostly you leave the dosage unadaptable. And that's the worst, most horrible condition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. I will recapitulate because I have now gotten into the chair, that we are still here before the debate is opened, so at this point I will only give the floor to those who have priority rights. At the same time, I warn you that we cannot continue, from 10.30 then the next meeting should start and it takes a minute to set up the equipment and prepare the documentation. So at 10.20, by 10:25 at the latest, I'm gonna have to interrupt this meeting. At this point, Mr Bauer is registered with priority rights because he is given priority rights for ODS. I am aware of the Minister's application, with priority rights there is still the President Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared a reasonable speech for our parliamentary club on the proposed draft law on parental increases, but let me just say one crucial thing. Madam Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, through Mr President, you have seen well on the record how many speakers are entered in this debate. You know this meeting is due to be adjourned at 10:30. You know, across the political spectrum, we all wish it was parental today, it doesn't matter what version, we're going to vote in the finals, we're going to vote in the finals, we're all going to want it to be agreed. And I would just like to say that the main message of today from the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies is that your scandalous one-hour speech, meaningless, has prevented you from voting and voting as a parent since 1. 1st year 2020. This is a vital message from this House to more than 300 thousand parents, especially mothers, but of course also to the fathers who are on parental leave watching us live, if they increase today, they will not increase whom they will increase and whom they will not increase. Your scandalous speech, an hour-long obstruction, will not be voted on raising parents today. I'm just saying that at the beginning of the next meeting, we will try to propose that these be interrupted - I would very much like us to return to parenting today. I'm not going to continue discussing parenting because we really don't have much time left. And I even think that if I now call on all the other speakers to give up their rights, at 10.07 we probably won't be able to vote in time for all the third readings that are proposed. Unfortunately, we won't be able to vote. So I'm not going to go any further, but I'd like it to be said here: You blocked parental approval by your performance! Scandalous performance!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u17	I have Mr. Výborný's priority right here. Again, it is not possible to comply with factual remarks, we are not in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u18	Mr President, dear government, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, it is exactly as it has been said here. Who's being totally asocial here, and I dare say it's spit in the face of parents waiting for a fair increase in parental allowance! The secretary here, with her smile and her self-righteousness, is constantly repeating the need to help parents. And she did one thing: she blocked the discussion of this point and blocked what families and parents were justly waiting for. That's it! He knows very well how many amendments there are, what time it is. And we were prepared to speak very briefly and factually, and the Minister was still suffocating a few days ago that it was her interest to actually approve the parental contribution on Friday. KDU-ČSL is ready to support the finals, even if the amendments by Mrs Golasowská, Mr Bauer and others did not pass, we are ready and we will support the increase in parental contribution. But whoever blocked the negotiation and approval of the increase is an antisocial social democracy. Unfortunately, it is with the support of the ANO and KSČM movement. So this is what the reality of the Czech Republic looks like in November 2019! Ladies and gentlemen, if the next meeting to start at 10.35 fails to switch those two points so that we can negotiate this point that our parents are waiting for, KDU-ČSL and other opposition parties will propose a new emergency meeting, because for us, you, our parents, are a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. I have two more applications with priority rights. Minister Maláčová, then Minister Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I think that's the height of hypocrisy. Or if I am to use the words of Mr Okamura: not words, actions. I don't know, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, how long have you been a member of this honored House, but what specific have you done for families with children, for working families with children, for seniors or for workers in general? I mean, you guys are just talking nicely at the counter, and you've never designed anything concrete, and you've never made it to the end. And don't make excuses for it. There are a lot of Members and Members who, even though they are not members of the Government Party, are successful in approving their proposals. That means you're just talking, but you're not doing anything concrete. And we came up with a parent, we designed her, and we're gonna approve her soon! We will soon approve it, because I have made it clear that it will be a higher parent from 1 January. And in response to Mr Bauer and Mr Výborný. How long have you been talking? How long have you been talking about the tax package? Five meetings? Five days? And if I want to very honestly explain my position on these individual amendments, because I get hundreds of questions every day, very honestly explain what the problem is, you're telling me that I'm blocking a meeting? [[with emphasis]] No! I've been discussing an hour, I've really explained in detail what I see in the weaknesses of the proposal that would hurt families with children, and it's not blocking the debate. And once again, I'm going to say, she's going to be a higher parent since January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. I will recapitulate - now with the priority right of Minister Schillerová, then Vice-President Okamura, then for the TOP 09 Club, Mrs Pekarová, because President Kalousek apologized in writing to this point, then President Bartošek. All priority rights. We haven't opened the debate and we have about 14 minutes max. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me have a quick reaction. What kind of blocking are you talking about? What kind of lockdown? We pushed through an emergency meeting with two points - a tax package and a parental contribution. We've been talking about the tax package for 22 hours, 25 minutes. We could have voted on it a long time ago, long ago we could have voted on a parental contribution. It was this government that put it in a government statement, and since its last increase in 2012, it has been increasing it so strongly. And we're gonna get him, too. We made a deal with him, it's in our budget, and we're gonna make it work. Are you questioning the right of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to state her point? Last time I mentioned the package very briefly, an extraordinary meeting began with the package, so I thought that this item deserved my longer performance, even though I performed at first, second, third reading, I was on all the budget committees, hours and hours, I had technical debates. And you're gonna accuse the secretary of labor today that she's building up her own law that she introduced here? Don't be mad at me, but that's the real deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u23	Now with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura, Mrs Pekarová Adamová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, it must be clear here that the ČSSD has blocked an increase in parental contribution today in favour of voting. I went to a meeting with the first point being a parental contribution. I've been here for an hour and a quarter, of which Minister Maláčová spoke for an hour on purpose, on purpose talked for so long that we can't vote on it, because here she represents proposals that we all know, and they've already been discussed on the committee, so she's been talking on purpose for a long time. We all know what we're going to vote on. The secretary here doesn't have to explain. Yes, it can. She can if she wanted to block it. And since a lot of people are texting me, who are blocking the parental allowance here, and that parents with young children are already looking forward to having it elevated, I want it to sound on the microphone that we've been clearly witnessed today - and we all see who's blocked it here. This law shall not be put to the vote because of obstructions due to blocking by the ČSSD. And I quite understand you, even though I disagree with you. As you are proposing an increase in parental allowance only for some parents with young children, on the other hand, there is a joint proposal from the SPD and the ODS workshop, when we agreed, Mrs Šafránková and Mr Bauer put forward an amendment to each other, which returns it where it should be, i.e. so that all parents with children under the age of four are entitled to an increased parental allowance of 80,000. And, of course, you're in trouble. Because you, Madam Secretary, are now faced with the option that you are either openly decloaking yourself and will not vote in favour of this amendment that Mrs Šafránková and Mr Bauer tabled together, i.e. clearly it turns out that you don't want to increase your parental allowance by 80,000 for all parents who would be entitled to it within four years, but you want to select them, or you'll vote for your government proposal, that's what you've presented here, we've got it in black and white to get it only some. But we don't agree with that. Maybe that's why you're doing obstruction here, why you're delaying the vote. But it's gonna happen sooner or later, and you're gonna have to show the voters how you're really doing, that is. You don't want all parents who have children under four to get an increase. That's your government proposal. Our suggestion is that we want everyone to get it. It's as simple as that. And we're in favour of voting right now to move on. And that's what we've been trying to do all along. You're the only one blocking it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll take a minute from you. I would just like to point out to all of you that we are in the third reading, § 95 para. 2 clearly states that the purpose of the third reading is, in particular, to correct legislative technical errors and not to repeat the debate from first and second readings. I, of course, cannot take the floor of those with priority rights under Section 67, but I could still lead them to speak to the point. [[From the right, he speaks loudly: He could not!]] The third reading debate should look different. Madam Vice-President, please take your word for it. [[Again, someone on the right is calling, "No, you couldn't!]] He couldn't... I'd like us not to yell at each other. Yes, I cannot, under any circumstances, take the floor of those with priority rights. To ask them to speak to the point, I hope no one will deny it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also convinced that we are witnessing obstruction by the Minister. And if you believe that you do not, then you now have the opportunity to prove it quite clearly by voting, because I propose, in a procedural manner, that we interrupt this meeting, this point, until 12 o'clock today, and we will certainly have the opportunity to make a very brief and clear speech on the matter within the third reading of those who are enrolled and the vote on the amendments itself. Show that you really mean the support of the families and that you want the parental contribution to be increased from next year. Show that it's not really obstruction. We're curious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u27	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. At the end of your performance, I've already begun to engage in the foyer. I consider this proposal to be procedural and we can vote on it immediately. I'm hearing a request for a check-out that I just granted, and I'm going to ask you to rejoin with your I.D. cards. We'll wait until the number of votes in the O.R. settles. So, it seems that the number of Members present has settled. [[After a while]] I repeat, it has been proposed that we interrupt this item and this meeting by 12.00 on this day. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 3, 142 Members signed in, for 65, against 1. This proposal was adopted. [[Objection from the diaper.]] Sorry. He's been rejected. I'm somewhere else. I'm sorry, a slippery spell. He's been rejected. I'm sorry. The procedure? President Bartošek is with priority right at the moment. We're gonna make one more show.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By their behaviour and in practice by voting part of social democracy, the ANO movement and the Communists have made it clear that they have betrayed young families. [[Storm manifestations of disapproval from the left and center of the hall.]] They don't care about families. Because if there was a will, we could discuss it today and approve it. What this is about is that you primarily want to tax people, take their money, that's what you want. And I'm convinced that until the tax package is voted out, you're just not gonna let the parent woman go. That means, don't play around like you care about people. Your main goal is to tax them! [[Very strongly.]] And then you're willing to have fun if you happen to approve your parental allowance. What you are currently doing here is betraying young families.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Vice-President Valachová has withdrawn her application, so with priority rights, the Minister. I can't allow another one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u30	Colleagues and colleagues, I am used to a lot of things in the Chamber of Deputies, but I ask President Bartošek not to leave and listen because it will be to him. This is too much. Social democracy has pushed an increase in parental contribution into the government's programming statement, none of you have thought of that. None of you brought it up here! You just forgot about it. We were the only ones who negotiated it with the ANO movement, we took it as our priority, we agreed on it, we found the money for it, and we want to approve it. And you're gonna accuse us of treason?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u31	Another priority right, Mrs Pekarová, then President Kováčik and others will probably not be able to handle. I'm saying it openly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u32	It turned out exactly as the opposition here says, which means it's an obstruction of a government coalition. Nothing else here today at this extraordinary meeting, in an hour and a half, we could easily vote off all the amendments and the entire law and get to the next government proposal on the tax package. It is obvious that the real priorities are elsewhere than what is being declared. The words and actions differ completely in this case of the government coalition. So please don't play the voter here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u33	Thank you for the briefness. And the last, really last priority right, Mr. Chairman Kováčik, after which I have recorded the application of President Chvojka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel like I'm in some kind of a bad dream here. Madam Secretary, she's been talking for less than an hour without me defending her, and there's already a huge storm of resentment and some kind of obstruction. Do we not remember the past few weeks when hours and hours were repeatedly mentioned here, and it was completely rejected that this was obstruction? We don't remember the long rumors that were here? And the public, at least the one who's communicating with me, told us, for God's sake, you're talking all over the place. The fact that there is no parental contribution voted, the fact that there is no tax package voted, but the fact that there are no other laws that are necessary is not the fault of Minister Maláčová, who, as I say, speaks here for less than an hour. We could have had the parental contribution voted if there was no obstruction, and I'm not afraid to call it obstruction, especially from the right side, that is, from the right side of the opposition. Seems to me like it's the word "the thief screams catch the thief" to me. That's what I'm feeling very intensely right now, that's what it looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, the next meeting is about to begin. I declare, and we have declared it many times, the last time yesterday, or the day before yesterday, with my colleague Aulicka at the press conference, we support, of course, for we have signed it, the law on parental contribution. But at the same time, we know, and I think it's very reasonable, at least that's how we see it, so that - in fact, you are especially the ones who are calling us to budgetary responsibility - for what we want to issue, at first it was earned, first it was accepted, then we can only issue. And so we say, moms, don't worry, you'll get what you need. Parents, don't worry, you'll get what you need, you'll get it in time. Minister Maláčová somehow did not speak to the wind, she is deeply convinced, and I too, that the parental contribution will pass, and will pass as it should, and will be paid on time. But we need to take into account, together, that is, the House as a whole, all of us who signed it, the fact that budgetary responsibility is also our duty. And when it comes to adding more or less - sorry, we add, the government coalition adds more or less, we also remember, especially we elders, that there was a time when there was a great success when there were 39 crowns added to the pensioners. So please, let's keep our heads on, and while we're on our heads, at least let's not get on the sun with butter on our heads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, too. It's really 10.26, another meeting starts in four minutes. Please be considerate of the staff so that we can reconfigure the device and prepare ourselves. I can't give any more room for priority rights. Just reminding you that President Bartošek was signed in, then President Chvojka, Vice-President Bauer, President Faltýnek - for the record. Now, I could either interrupt without further determination, but President Chvojka has told me that he has a procedural motion for interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor. Good morning. Colleagues and colleagues, obviously we will not be able to make this point today, but we need to know when we will continue it. I think it would be appropriate for us to continue this point and, ideally, to conclude this point immediately after the end of the 36th meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. It's a procedural proposal. I'm not calling anyone. I think we're here, we all know what we're voting on. We are voting on the suspension of this meeting and this would continue after the end of the meeting 36. Initiating vote. [[Request from diaper to check out.]] Sorry, I'm closing the vote. I'm declaring it confusing. There's a checkout request. I've announced that we're all here, but so be it, again. [[Restlessness in the room.]] We are voting to adjourn the meeting. A counterproposal? President Bartošek - counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u38	Just, if you give me my opinion, I am convinced that if you want to vote and discuss this meeting today after the end of the meeting which will, provided that it ends after 14 o'clock, it is not possible to discuss it because we are at third reading and under the Rules of Procedure the third reading after 14 o'clock cannot take place. I'm convinced that's not possible. I don't think this proposal is voteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-001-001.u39	It's voteable. In case the meeting ends at 1:00, we can continue. We can't anticipate that. I'll probably start the meeting at 10:30 then, and for technical reasons, I'll interrupt it for five minutes, because the fact is that we need to reschedule and set up a new meeting. We're all together now. We will vote on the suspension of this meeting, which will continue after the end of the 36th meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 5 registered 148, for 88, against 2. The motion was accepted. I'm saying the 37th meeting has been adjourned. We'll continue at 10:30. I'm gonna start the meeting at 10:30, but I'm gonna interrupt it for five minutes to technically prepare everything, so we're really gonna start at 10:35. Thank you for the moment.
