ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u1	22. Members of Patrik Nacher's proposal, Jaroslav Faltýnek, Martin Kolovratník, Zbyněk Stanjura and others to issue a law amending Act No. 223/2016 Coll., on sales time in retail and wholesale /house print 200/ - second reading Mr Patrik Nacher, to whom I hereby give the floor, shall state the motion put forward and, at the same time, pass on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here again at the microphone, this time wanted. I feel that at first reading everything has been said about this. The proposal concerns the removal from the scope of the existing wholesale legislation, on the ground that the basic characteristics of the public holidays are somehow not fulfilled, which is called shopping tourism or a similar term, when families spend whole holidays shopping, which is not possible in wholesalers. That's one argument. The second argument is that wholesalers supply those small shops and some nonstop establishments, which are simply open all the time, do not have that ban. That means there's no logic in it so the wholesale doesn't close. At first reading, I asked that we discuss this in the '90s, because I anticipated the very wide debate and discussion that on the one hand, someone here would want to extend the number of holidays to all holidays, because today it is so incomprehensible, or maybe even add Sundays or weekends to be closed. On the other hand, someone will propose, which has also happened so that the entire law will cease to apply as a whole. I wanted to avoid it because I thought that we could all agree more or less from the logic of common sense that wholesale should not be there. That didn't happen. It went through. The discussion was held on the Economic Committee, which first, and I think the rapporteur here will say, interrupted, then recommended approval. Now we're at second reading and I'm ready to answer some questions and I'm looking forward to a sophisticated debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u3	I thank Mr Nacher. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 200/2 and 200/3. I will ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee for Commissioner Helena Langšádlová to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly state that it is intended to exempt wholesalers from the scope of the current legislation, as the petitioner has already said. On 27 September the Economic Committee interrupted the discussion of this proposal. Then, at his 20th meeting on 7 November, he discussed the bill and adopted the following resolution: The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the interpretation of the petitioner, Mr Patrik Nacher, Helena Langšádlová's intelligence report, and after the general debate recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House press 200 as amended by the draft law. Furthermore, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make legislative technical amendments in the draft law which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. Furthermore, she instructs the rapporteur to present a report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this draft law in the Economic Committee and instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, as it has already happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the report and open a general debate in which there are three entries at the moment, and this is the first Mr Jiří Bláha, who will be prepared by Mr Mihola. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u6	Colleagues, my colleague, I am uncomfortable with having to speak against Members from a club. I'm sorry we're not able to talk things out at the clubs first, maybe in some groups, and shed some light on the problem. The problem of selling time and work -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u7	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace! If you are discussing a subject other than retail selling time, please in the foyer, so that individual Members can speak in a quiet and dignified environment. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u8	Thank you. The problem of selling time, working on holidays, working on Sundays, I've been doing the services for 30 years at all because I've been working on it, and believe me, I've said it, and I've said it a few times before, the first or one of the first ones who did the work on Sundays or on the holiday, because they used to come to me and told me that they'd like to earn money and that there's no need for just family to do it, but that they'd like to contribute their hands to the work. The situation in the labour market has changed rapidly today, and people's understanding has changed. It is not much to wonder, because in the last 30 years of freedom and democracy, we have often worked our way up to total non-freedom. You could say that to total non-freedom, even in what we discussed a moment ago. It used to be normal for music, guitar, young people to hang out in the squares. It's not much possible today. And something similar happens during the holiday work or even on Sundays. The employee cannot decide, nor can the entrepreneur decide, because it is pushed by the transnational chain to supply. The moment he doesn't supply, he's unlucky. It falls out of contact and loses business, which, of course, a bunch of entrepreneurs are unable to accept. I am lucky not to be under this pressure, but I represent a large group of people who are in business, and I have the honour to present to you here a joint petition to the Bakers' Union and the Union of Trade, Logistics and Services. They're all two unions that they employ, or they're gathering the most people who are just hit by a holiday job. It is an activity that is not necessary, such as the work of firemen, firemen, nurses, doctors, etc. It's actually an activity we can miss. I would like you to read the wording of the Bakers' Union: We have recently registered disturbing information in the media that a part of Czech MEPs intends to initiate a motion to abolish a law prohibiting sales in commercial chains on listed state holidays. The Board of the Association of Bakers and Confectioners of the Czech Republic discussed this fact and in its meeting of 29. 11. 2018 showed substantial opposition to this initiative. I can assure you that the employees of the bakery department are not allowed to sell on holidays, which has been effective since 1. 10th, definitely welcomed. It is very expensive and difficult for producers to make bread and pastries on public holidays. [[10.40 hours]] The fact that bakeries have to operate virtually 365 days a year makes bakers and bakers unattractive by recruiting young generation from primary schools. On the example of neighbouring countries, e.g. Germany or Austria, it is clear that closing food stores on holidays or Sundays does not cause any problems for customers, buys bakery products in advance. The association of bakers and pastrymakers in the Czech Republic conducted a survey between the member base asking whether bakers support the validity of the existing sales ban law. The exit was clear. Membership base, which represents 120 members, about 8,000 employees, unanimously stands for support for the maintenance of the law. In addition, a number of bakeries made a request to extend the ban on sales to all public holidays. I'd like to elaborate on that now. That means we're dealing with a sales permit today in business... not in business chains, but in wholesale. It seems to me that this proposal is very populist, because the plaintiff does not know the nature of the matter. Most small shops, which are argued in the proposal, do not have absolutely time to go shopping these days to these wholesalers. It is so that most people have a problem at all in order to ensure the operation of their stores on public holidays, so it often happens that the owner or his immediate family is in those stores, because really few people today want to work on the holiday. Most people want to have fun. And I'll just give you a few more arguments that are very important. Earlier on the holiday, it was de facto said that sales ranged between normal Saturdays and Sundays. Today it's 30 percent Saturday or Sunday. So the employer in question has to pay double the salary, he has to convince those concerned, perhaps another financial incentive, and de facto only fills 30 percent of the normal revenue. This means that the company is absolutely economically non-profitable, and it is in the content of the services that we are talking about, that the services associated with the sale of food, because other wholesales are not open, only wholesales with food are interested in this, so de facto the state today, as I described, does not go shopping for the little ones, but goes shopping or go shopping for those who normally go shopping there. And that's how it is... Go check it out, or I was in the twenty-fourth wholesale shop, figured out who's shopping there, and it really wasn't anybody from ordinary businessmen. They were looking for gifts at the last minute, looking for last minute items that the family needs to buy to cook so they could organize a Christmas feast. So I guess that's the argument I wanted to make. The last thing I want to say to you. Over 11,000 people working in this field and 8,000 more bakers and pastry makers submitted a petition. If you imagine that in some three months over 20,000 signatures have been collected, it is clear that these people who work in this field have absolutely no interest in continuing to work on the holiday. And by what we do and what we've created, we're actually forcing them to go to work. The fact that they're not able to get rid of that condition is what I've already said here, because even that entrepreneur isn't capable of fulfilling the lease to the landlords, which means that the chains he owns aren't able to say no, I'm gonna be closed today. I can't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u9	I thank Mr Jiří Bláh. And before we continue, not by expressing Mr Mihola, who is duly registered, but by two factual remarks, I will state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr David Kasal from 12.30 to 16.15, from 10 to 12.30 by Mr Vlastimil Válek and from 12.30 until the end of the sitting day of Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Now a factual remark by Patrik Nacher. A colleague of the Brázdil will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u10	Thank you. I'm just here to start off without us discussing something that's not there. I'll try first signal. Today it is so that the holiday shops, some holidays, and some shops - no one said why these holidays, why these shops - must not be open. We're editing them with the law or the novel, not that they have to, but that they can. It can. Don't be. That's not an obligation. He can, while he's not allowed to today. On the other hand, it's not that it has to. Well, that's one thing. And the other thing. The petitioners' proposal, I'm not talking about the amendments right now, they're talking about removing wholesalers, just like they do in Slovakia, not even if I wanted it personally, but that's irrelevant now, about all the shops. So let's talk about this thing alone, and let's not give examples of something that's not there again. That's what it means, so first of all. Today, according to what we propose, it can be open and it can also be closed. No one's forcing anyone around here, that's the difference. Nobody's forcing anyone. And it's about the wholesaler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Brázdil has now made a point of fact and then Mr Bláha's point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very short. Through the President, Mr Blá, do not be foolish! You really think this is the only place that's standing on bakers right now? You know how many people aren't home on those holidays! And they don't always show up here saying how important it is to bake these rolls and how poor you have to sell them. There are so many people here who would like to spend their free time with their family on the 24th, and they just won't. They have a responsibility! So I just want to say, I'll say it again. Enough at the club. You have the opportunity to come out and discuss it with us at any time! Don't hit your own club! Mr. Blaha, stop being foolish! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague Bláha will respond. [[Noise and restlessness in the hall.]] But once again, I will ask the House for peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor... [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Well, not yet. I'm registering an application for a factual remark from my colleague Faltýnek, so just a little while longer, before you is your colleague from the MP's club. Just a little longer when things calm down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u14	Maybe if I had the opportunity to explain it better to you at the club, you'd understand sooner. But it wasn't an opportunity, which is why we have to have fun here, which is a shame. And I've called on x-times to introduce the club to the opinion of people who have to work 365 days a year. And I just want to tell you the difference in what was said here. If professions such as nurses, doctors or firefighters are necessary, there is probably no discussion. But if there is a need for a profession and in all other neighbouring countries such as Austria, Switzerland, Germany, France, Poland, but also Slovakia, they figured it out, then why do we want something different? Why don't we adapt to what was customary here, why did we introduce something that's abnormal here? [[10.50 hours]] Family can't be home, they have to go to work. The rest of you are in a hurry to get home from the Chamber of Deputies as soon as possible. All of you! We often cancel meetings here before the holiday. Nobody's interested in being here longer. The employees can't decide that. Even the businessman can't decide. Unfortunately, he can't, because he's under contract, and that's all he has to do. And since you don't live that life, don't comment on it because you're talking about things that are out of the way. And if Patrik Nacher here says he can open the wholesale or not. Yes, he can or doesn't have to. But who owns it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u15	He's coming in. Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u16	It's owned by a foreign company that doesn't want to close.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u17	Member, it is not possible for us to fail to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Now, Mr Faltýnek's factual comment, Mrs Vrecionová and Mrs Vít Rakušan will be prepared with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u18	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. I would like to thank my two colleagues, Milan Brázdil and colleague Bláh, for a nice cultural insert. We're doing pretty well, and I'm glad we approved Thursday, Friday, this week a lot of laws and that we're behind us again after some time work. But on the other hand, a little political reality needs to be perceived. And it evolves in society and develops in the Chamber of Deputies. When you look at who actually passed the law in the past, it was the voices of social democracy, KSČM and KDU-ČSL. And there were some conditions. Today, the conditions in the House are different. And most of them might have a different opinion. And Patrik and I, Zbyněk Stanjura and others, came up with a compromise proposal and basically a proposal to correct the error, because we adopted the law on the ban on sales at retail holidays and at the same time allowed the small ones to sell up to 200 m2 and have the opportunity to buy it somewhere. Of course I'm not talking about restaurants. And we wanted to correct that mistake with a 90-year-old. Unfortunately, it has been brought to its attention, and as I perceive and feel the situation in the Chamber of Deputies, it can turn out completely differently regardless of the cultural inserts that we will still have here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the factual remark made by Mrs Vrecionová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u20	Thank you, Mr President. So I cannot forgive myself, I think that there are already 15 minutes of ANO Members discussing with each other. I am very grateful to President Faltýnek here through Mr President for his interpretation, but at least I can assure my colleagues from the ODS that we are all aware of this, and maybe you'll save us all some time if you call the club YES and somehow try to talk things out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr. Jiří Mihola's proper application now. Leo Luzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u22	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The question of this bill is repeatedly returned to the Chamber of Deputies. I was also afraid that this would turn into a "yes" meeting, so I took the liberty of interrupting it like this. I'm glad it came down to that order. However, I appreciate and share the opinion of my colleague Bláha, or do I have a very similar opinion. I know it's probably not easy at the club. It is always the case when someone is in a minority, but maybe it can change, as the chairman of the club of the movement ANO Faltýnek said. You know, when we voted for the restriction in the last parliamentary term, it did not come to the vote of some amendments to make it clear here, it was actually a Senate proposal, which was in some form, and everyone, including the ANO movement, was simply not willing to take a step further in this, so that perhaps the most common counter-argument that Nacher mentioned in his contribution is that it is chaos, why some public and other holidays are involved and others are not. I asked myself that question from the beginning, and in the last parliamentary term, I had an amendment that I will read today and which - the number of the amendment is 2127 - is that this measure concerned not selected, but all 14 national and other holidays in 13 days, and it would be clear that the debates would be over, why that is and why that is not, and that no one explained it. I hope that this is understandable and moreover a continuous attitude not only my but KDU-ČSL. I'm convinced it's a culture measure. Perhaps all our colleagues are going across Europe. I don't want to keep statistics here. Yes, something may change somewhere, but more or less changes are negligible, and if you put a map of Europe in front of you, you will find that regulation is in most European countries and that in many countries of Europe and in particular the European Union, the regulation is much larger, on the one hand, because we are in the number of holidays so roughly on the European average, rather on the lower average as regards the number of holiday days, on the other hand, because they often actually have regulation on Saturdays or Sundays or other days. Here I say in advance, because various things are also being pushed, I have never even talked about Sundays or Saturdays, and none of my fellow Members from KDU-ČSL have spoken. But I also look at it as a teacher and historian so that we often ador the first republic here. Now we were 100 years old, so the adorations were very common, and we put on pink glasses. Let's be true. In the first Republic, of course, they also respected some restrictions, for Austria-Hungary as well. And in those later times, too. So it's got some kind of tradition, it's not some kind of fiction. Some new thing would be to pretend like there's none here - why there should be regulation at all. But that's what I'm saying-- who introduced the public holidays and the other holidays? Did they introduce themselves or any broad general plenary? No, that was introduced by legislators and logical legislators therefore have the opportunity to enter into this with regulation. I'm here rejecting those words like bans and stuff. I'm talking about regulation, because I really beg you, the number of days throughout the year is so negligible that it's almost awkward to be thundering around here or flying around with terror in your eyes as if it were about half a year. I simply believe that there are days when the economy and shopping may not be the first place, as it is in a number of other countries that are far ahead of us in many areas, and there is absolutely no argument that if someone felt that if we were to be unbiasedly open on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, just from morning to night, overnight, we would somehow move the economy, catch up and overtake the states. So after a quarter of a century, we haven't moved anywhere particularly from those countries where regulation is strong. So this argument came up, I've already said it on a discussion show, and actually, the colleague and no other counterargument has been filed. What would be for discussion and what would be repeatedly mentioned here - the boundary, the area of square meters, which is set in the proposal, in the existing law, not some, is 200 m2. But I didn't notice anyone bringing in any expert expertise to say no, 200 no, it should be 300 or 400. I think it's 350 in the UK. So it's just different in different states. And I would understand the arguments that would somehow be expertly substantiated, that we would have them here right now, and maybe change the area here. But I really didn't notice if you were to correct me, it's probably not that important. [[11.00 hours]] What we want in the first place. I want hypermarket and supermarket vendors, in many cases children's mothers, to be able to spend their holiday moments with their family and to make a better contribution to a better combination of working and family life. You know, I'm running into a counterargument again. At the holidays, almost all other services of the type are limited - someone would also be better suited to go to the doctor on the weekend. All you can do is go to the ER. We also know that there's another rhythm to the right on the holidays. So it's not fair to say why it should only involve salesmen. And most importantly, whether we buy a day sooner or later, these are things that are really necessary and solvable. So there's no need for anything today. So buying one more day is certainly no problem for anybody. The most common counterargument here was that it only concerns selected holidays. Yes, I agree. Therefore, the amendment I am proposing applies to all public and other holidays. I'm not gonna remind them all of them. But I believe that it is the role of politicians, not only teachers, but also politicians, that we should remember them more. Because maybe even we and our friends and relatives are lamenting when there's a poll on TV, and now it turns out that a student doesn't care if high school or college, he doesn't really know anything about the holiday or confuses absolutely fundamental things and knowledge. It's up to the teachers and us not to make it this miserable. To consider that holiday day as in other countries. In Germany, my colleagues, Members of the Federal Assembly, often said to me: we actually appreciate it, we know that we would not have to have any regulation, but we appreciate that it is another day. Just as he appreciates putting up flags, or just that the day goes on in a different rhythm than the day of everyday life. So if we often come across it here and apply to the roots, identity, culture and history, so please connect this thing and take it as a cultivation measure. And I would also like to make it clear - I was also encouraged that perhaps Mihol would like to organize something for someone to do in his spare time. I really don't. I would never let anyone talk to me about what to do with my family in my spare time, and I would never do that to anyone else. Make sure everyone spends their time their own way, of course. But we really care about the sales girls. I've been talking to two or three sales girls personally, but there's a lot of business chains in Brno, so I took the job. And apart from such clichés about how they are overpaid at the holidays - often they only have a spare leave instead - so, except for the rare cases, they welcomed the possibility of regulation and their being with their family. In fact, it was more of an isolated case that the person in question was running into the job for personal reasons that I don't want to discuss here. So I would like to ask for the support of this amendment, which I once again submit under the number 2127, and I believe that we will end the chaos and will not have to write the newspapers: this public holiday will be closed and will be opened on another national holiday this time. It'll be one thing. And you'll see that it will contribute to peace in your families. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u23	I thank Mr Jiří Mihol. Before we continue with two factual remarks by David Kasal and Ivan Adamec, I state an apology. The President of the Chamber of Deputies apologizes to Jiří Kobza between 10.45 and 12.30 due to negotiations in the electoral region. My colleague David Kasal has the floor on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u24	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I would like to comment on Mr Mihol through you. I'd just say very simply, I don't think it's about any profession. So if you were having fun in those stores, I'll tell you how it is in other professions, not just with doctors, when I'm a doctor. They're drivers and others. And the thing is, if the driver's got a 12 and he's on his way somewhere, he wants to go shopping somewhere. So spread it for another holiday -- or when the doctor's in the hospital, he's there 24 hours, and then he goes home, and he wants to buy the holiday. It hasn't been one day. It's been two days, three days. And when you have two holidays together, it works out like you're not gonna buy three days at the same time. So it's not just about that. We're a little bit more modern society. Part of the company requires transport, health and other services. And again, this part of the company that makes it happen wants to eat again. Well, then you need to see the life in context.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec and then Mr Jiří Mihola's colleague. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u26	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I would, of course, like to respond to the debate that is going on here. Here it turns out how dangerous it is sometimes to come up with a good idea and open some laws. This proposal doesn't have anything to do with retail, and we're mostly talking about retail here. It's about wholesale, that's different. But if the citizens are confused about what holiday shops are open and not open, and that the newspaper has to write it. I say, at least the papers have something to write when I see the media scene today. But that's just a turn. I'll give you another example, since we're already telling you how we take care of those families to spend time differently, together. Well, it doesn't work that way at all. I remember when we passed this bill, it went through a legislative process, so it was a state holiday that covered it. I don't know what it was like. And really in Hradec Králové in Carrefour, today it's probably called differently, there was only a multi-cinema open and it was terribly empty. It seemed like the law would work as such. Yeah, but now I was there on a state holiday, I accidentally went there to buy something, I didn't notice the store was closed. But there was nowhere to park, because those people went to the cafes, the multi-kine, and they still spent the holiday at the mall. So let's not get illusions that it helped anything. And another thing. I'll tell you who it helped, this bill. Our Vietnamese businessmen. 'Cause they all have that shit up to 200 square feet. They actually work in every village today, every city. And if the wholesale store is closed, the big store, then of course they're profiting from it. By the way, they're buying in bulk at these wholesales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jiří Mihola's point of order now. Mr. Colleague Luzar is next. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u28	Thank you. I'm glad the debate is going well, but please, let's not be scared. If you read it well, you know that regulation is about not closing everything, it doesn't go out, it's not blackout. It's just the little shops that work, you can buy at the station, at the airport, and so on. So it's not some end of the world like nothing's gonna work anywhere. It's just business over 200 square meters. And as for the lament over the Vietnamec, I'm gonna stand up for them. I thank them that someone is willing to do the job. I mean, nobody's stopping our people from selling in those stores. Let's be glad that at least the Vietnamec are willing to sell in those small stores, because not everywhere they also have hypermarkets and supermarkets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And there are two factual points again. My colleague Luzar will wait. First Ivan Adamec and then Mr Kasal's colleague. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u30	Thank you, Mr President. This shows how it always turns out, doesn't it? when it's convenient, Mr Mihola through Mr President. I have nothing against Vietnamese businessmen. On the contrary, most of them are, like, in our town, my friends. We know each other, I'm glad they work there, I'm glad they work in the villages. Because the Čech wouldn't want to do it under these conditions. I was just saying that this law made them an extra profit because no one else could sell at the time. Today they're in all that junk, there's an exception when there's a Čech out there, like the groceries or the vegetables. So please, let's interpret it this way. I don't have anything against them, but I'm saying it brought them a profit. If that was the intention, it's okay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr David Kasal, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u32	Thank you for the floor. I was not talking, Mr Mihola, through Mr President, about the blackout. I was talking about if I was two nights away, I wouldn't be looking for a small shop somewhere at the station, but I'd like to drive to a regular store where I choose what I want to buy. And by doing that, you're kind of limiting part of the population. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u33	Thank you for keeping time. One more point in fact, Mr Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u34	I understand the doctors after two, three nights, as it sounded here, and I think that in Austria, Bavaria, where such a ban is applied even on Sundays, they can probably do that. And we're talking 14 state holidays a year. We already know that we can handle Christmas today, and it's two days, and we can live with it. I think the legislator should make the problem the optics of the weakest link in the chain in case of restrictions on opening hours. [[with emphasis on:]] This means that if we as consumers have the opportunity to buy in advance and that one two days at most in the case of Christmas, I am in a position to have the choice. But the weakest link is the one who has to serve behind the cash register or in the store that day and cannot, for example, celebrate the public holiday with his loved ones. And that's my optics as I look at it, and that's why I think we're able as a reasonable society to be in solidarity with those who are there, and to manage one or more in the case of Christmas two days to subload and prove these 14 days a year to endure with this ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u35	I also thank Mr Jurečka for his time. Mr Bláha's point of order now. [[Response to notes in the hall:]] Let's see if they have a chance to sign in properly. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u36	Colleagues, colleagues, how do they do it in the other states? I don't think those drivers go there, there aren't any normal people who go shopping! I'd be very interested. It's not like there's two holidays in a row when it's closed. Well, that's in place so far. [[Speech of disapproval. Voice: Christmas.]] No, it's not two in a row when it's closed. Christmas, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u37	Please, only those who have been given the word speak, let us not shout at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u38	Yes, I'm sorry, Christmas, but they've always been. [[Fun in the hall.]] There are no other days of the year. See who goes to work from other businessmen to see if any barbershops, hairdressers, manicures and other private companies are open. Nobody's open! And you're here to fight for the bakers, the pies, the salesmen, etc. - let them go to work. So who were we suggesting the holidays for? Just for yourself? So let's open up the authorities and let these people go to the office on holiday so they don't have to take time off and leave when they want to do something. Let's rally in the Chamber of Deputies on a holiday, it'll be an advantage, we'll have enough time, we won't have other interests, because no one will disturb us, no one will call us. Why don't we do it? Let's propose a holiday job, as we suggest to others. Remember and try to live the lives of these people. They're only free on Mondays, and they're at work all week. And there's a holiday coming and he has to go back to work. That's how people are! And why enforce it on a holiday? For what reason?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u39	Thank you for keeping the time, Mr. MP, on a point of fact. We have another factual point, Mr Lukáš Černohorský. My colleague Luzar is still waiting. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u40	Thank you. I don't think we can be here about the holidays - it's crucial for those people we can afford to have that day off. Maybe my mom's a foreign animal nurse, and she can't pick up and disappear for two days. Those animals would eat each other or die. We have the same with doctors. I personally appreciate someone being there in case something happens to me. The same with firefighters who are really often needed at Christmas because of burning trees and the like. So the holidays are made for those people the company can afford to have the time off. There really are professions that we need to have some kind of emergency. So even some businessmen are holding an emergency if your water broke at Christmas and so on, so that they can come to you and help you in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, Mr Luzar, my colleague Stanislav Grospič will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to the verdict of the rhetoric and maybe I will return the matter back to the proposal that is being put forward here. But first let me, and try to think about wholesale - big business, define within the submitter. Because what else did the promoter of this proposal do? He deboned the original design, and the original design misleading the holidays is actually toothless. Because every big deal over 200 meters is enough to find one businessman to sign a contract to deliver goods to him, and that's when the law doesn't apply to him. Will the inspection come - how is it that you are open on the holiday? He will submit the first contract concluded with Pep Vosáhla that he bought some goods from him as a wholesaler or buys from him. At that point, any sanctions are off, and he's going to sell the shop. In other words, when you define it, as the petitioners wrote it, so clearly the proposal to abolish the law, which they might assume to come across, they actually did in other words in their material. Because they even admit it in part in the explanatory statement. They say that the Trade Business Act defines wholesale as activities related to the purchase and sale of goods for the purpose of its resale and to other business activities. Period. However, they forget that wholesale is not intended for sale to the final consumer. That's the second definition, but it's released. If they put it there, that means it applies to wholesalers where it is not possible to sell to the final consumer, then it would be logical and all the arguments that they put here would be fully valid. But do you have a wholesaler like that today that doesn't allow such a sale? Does the original law apply to him? I don't know him personally. Even those Makra-type stores that require business registration, maybe it's just that it's gonna tighten up the control, it might still fall into this. All the others do the service of both the final consumer and businessmen. If they fall under the regime of this law today, they would just order an extra entrepreneur to buy with them, and at that moment they have no problem with this proposal or the law, and they could sell more quickly. I therefore consider the proposal that is put forward as an attempt to bone, bypass and allow those over 200 metres to sell freely without any restrictions. Since there is no precise definition of wholesale and in that definition as defined in this law and as determined by the trade law in a shortened version according to the explanatory memorandum, the law simply ceases to apply. That is one thing I want to draw attention to here to all those who, even in explaining that wholesale is not retail - yes, it is not, but also has its conditions and in practical implementation the original law, which should allow people working in the service to have holidays free, would simply be useless. The second thing I have pointed out to the Committee on Economic Affairs is that if we open this law, this debate will and will arise. I'm glad I'm not the only one who came and put a proposal into the system to make all the holidays we have free. So we will then decide on this in the third reading and there will be two identical proposals. I'll sign up for mine, too. [[11.20 hours]] But once again, I point out that the proposal put forward by the petitioners is really built on the fact that every big shop over 200 meters that would be closed today and not want to be closed will do one little thing: ask your friend, ask someone, hey, make a deal with me, you'll be buying wholesale with me, I'll give you a wholesale discount. And all I need is one such contract, and when it comes to control, I'll base it on: "Dear controller, I supply wholesale businessmen." By definition, I'm wholesale, even though I'm 99.99 percent retail, but I still have one, it's not the definition. Goodbye, I'm fulfilling the terms and I don't have to be closed. Put me in court! So the petitioners didn't think about practical implementation, and they're really just planning on deboning the original law. Let them try to cope with this argument. I think it's clear from the translator's smile that I hit the nail on the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u43	Thank you, Mr Luzar. My colleague, Grospič, will wait a little longer because we have the factual comment of Mr Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u44	Thank you for the performance of my colleague Leo Luzar. Let me turn to him and to the representatives, the KSČM MP and the ČSSD to use their coalition position as we saw in the proposal for taxation of church restitutions, when the Communists said that this was a necessary condition for them to support this coalition. So if there is a topic for them, as we have now heard from Mr Luzar, to defend what has been achieved in the last parliamentary term, then I ask them to show their strength in the coalition negotiations, even on this subject, if they are truly in principle behind the people involved, so as to raise it in the coalition negotiations. And then it's settled, then it'll be like church restitution, there'll be a clear majority here who won't support the proposal for this dilution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u45	Thank you. Now, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u46	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to say something very brief. What we've been doing here lately and what laws we approve of is their principle: I don't want to, but I have to, I want to, but I can't. We approve. And I'd really like us to stick to it: I want something, so I can do it. I don't want anything, I won't do it. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Stanislav Grospič's speech, so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, and colleagues, I would also like to contribute to the debate on this law, and especially because I know how difficult it was for this law to be born and how many employees and the public were actually waiting for it. It has been said many times that in many countries of the European Union, but also elsewhere in the world, much more restrictions on selling time are common not only on holidays, but on Sundays, for example, and this does not threaten the prosperity of these countries, in no way endangering the standard of living of their citizens. They take this for granted, because if they have, for example, the right to take time off from other professions on days intended as a holiday or a holiday, work leave or holiday, then why shouldn't the employees of the store, especially supermarkets, but also the wholesale? The problem is that, and those objections are often mentioned here, that there are, of course, other professions and other professions that require continuous operation and must also be carried out at times when others take up their legal leave. Perhaps the problem lies in another area as well. And maybe you will also remember how hard the unions led, and I should actually report a conflict of interest here, because I am the chairman of one of the trade unions of Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, when they fought to raise and level up wages in supermarkets and business chains, and to keep working hours there as well. In order to comply with completely prose provisions, for example, that the employee must know at least 14 days in advance the schedule of his working time in order to avoid knowing for a week, five days, three days in advance, and during that day it changes because a part-timer falls out, someone else falls out, and he's actually under pressure if he doesn't come, if he objects that he can't, because he's already counting on the day off, the employer will say to him: Next time you don't have to come. This promoted wage increase, for example, in some supermarkets, and I could specifically talk about some chains, stores of the Kaufland plant, for example from my town of origin, from Mladá Boleslav, led to a rapid increase in the number of employees because they were told: So if you've negotiated these wages and we're giving them to you, you have to cover a much larger period of time and time for that wage. And certainly, but that is not the subject for the Chamber of Deputies, but for the Labour Safety Inspectorate and the Labour Authorities, how much the classic eight-hour working hours are actually being used, and how much these people are forced to do other jobs than what they were hired to do, for example, the shopkeepers have to match the goods to the shelves and they have to do the cleaning, and how much they have to do it to a different extent than in the eight-hour period, and mostly even in the split shifts. So that's the big problem with supermarkets. In the Czech Republic there are almost 740, of which I suspect a little over 50, 60 will be close to wholesalers, and there are over 835 thousand employees employed in total. Of course, not all of this is going to happen because there are even smaller shops with less than 200 m2 and there is a slightly different mode. But I think that employers or operators of those smaller businesses, unless it's a family business, are dealing with it a little differently. And it's also necessary for those employees to have a moment, a problem to solve, to make a deal and get some time off. I'm talking about it here because we originally had the idea that it might be about 100 m2 stores, but if there's a proposal on the table that says that this working time or this exemption should only apply to retailers and not wholesalers, then please, those big excesses, the big burden on employees, it is also happening primarily in those wholesalers, where most of them also have a small amount of support, because those of you who know the issue a little bit, know how hard it is for trade unions to operate there, for example, and to monitor compliance with the working hours and work safety inspections. I think that this law has a place in the legal order of the Czech Republic, that it could easily be extended to other holidays, that it could easily in some, perhaps at least limited form be related to Sundays. But at this stage, I ask that we not be inclined to the proposed amendment. It will make the social status of employees significantly worse. For this reason, I propose that the bill be rejected. And until we get to the third reading, before the second reading is interrupted, for example, today's second reading, I am making this procedural proposal. And let two coalition parties gather together and discuss whether they agree on any agreement and compromise, and the larger one from the coalition will give way to the smaller one. But for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, I say that we will not support it, we have other ideas. We realize how hard work is in business chains, including wholesalers. And once again, we're making a motion to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u49	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič. That was the last one entered in the general debate properly, but I have two further factual points, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková and Mr Beitl, so I will give the floor to factual remarks. Mrs Alena Gajdůšková. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Honored House, Your Majesty, only very quickly. Mr Svoboda spoke here about who can or cannot, who wants or does not want to. Employees don't have that choice. Just if traffic's running, they have to come. No one's asking them. And the Social Democrats have always been on the side of the staff. That is why we have also been the proponents of the law that we are discussing today and which should be amended in the sense that the petitioners here have spoken about it. But, as Mr Luzar pointed out, the amendment basically cuts off this bill. And it's gonna be difficult for employees to actually have seven days of the year off. And believe that when you talk to them, they will tell you that at least seven days a year, when they know that they can be with their children, with their families, are very valuable to them, more valuable than the possible surcharge. And, as Mr Bláha has said, it does not concern only those specific employees who must be in those shops, but it concerns all downstream companies, a lot and a lot of other people. I think we should give them the day off, the luxury of being with our family, wishing for them. And I intercede for us to stay on the original text of the State Holiday Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u51	Thank you, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now Petr Beitl's factual remark and then Mr Stanislav Grospič, who will certainly complete his procedural proposal. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u52	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond, through Mr President, to a colleague, Grospič, who has put forward a number of arguments here why this proposal should not be passed. But I must warn him that all these arguments he has made are covered by the Labour Code. And if he feels that the labor code is not being followed somewhere, there are certainly tools, it can be pointed out and enforced. And I'd also like to point out, on the basis of my profession, which I've been doing for many years, that not only firefighters and doctors work on the holidays, but -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u53	Mr. Ambassador, I will interrupt you even though you are on a point of fact, and I will ask the House for peace of mind! My colleague applied for a factual remark, he only has two minutes, but he can't be heard. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u54	But they also work in the service, and especially in those services that are intended for people who are free to enjoy their free time better, whether they are different entertainment centers, but especially restaurants, pubs, hotels. And these are the parts of the system that need to keep the support, the supply, the material and the service, so that we can all, to be absolutely specific, really enjoy the holidays. And I have a feeling that this bill goes across the line so that the supply can be respected so that the restaurants can actually offer their full service. And if we forbid it, we're going against each other in a way. And what you're talking about here is that these people have the right to enjoy the holidays, so in this case, they have no right to enjoy them, because the services they expect will not be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u55	I thank Mr Beitl for keeping the time to make a point of fact, even though I interrupted him in his speech. Mr Stanislav Grospič's point of view and then his colleague Jiří Bláha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm very sorry, because when I suggested the procedural interruption of this point, I didn't say until when. I would suggest it to the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to create a space between the two parties, which form the Government of the Czech Republic, to agree on the approaches to this law. And I believe that they will find solutions that will be to the satisfaction of both retail and wholesale employees. Otherwise, I am replicating through your, Mr President, to my previous speaker. Of course there's a code of work and a lot of other institutions. The problem is that business chains and supermarkets work slowly e.g. trade unions and few of those employees dare complain because they simply evaluate the situation by being happy to have this job and aware that the employer will just get rid of it sooner or later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u57	Thank you. The interruption will be in the framework of an open debate, because it is probably essential that the debate in question does not end, because I intend to end the general debate, if I am to understand it. So we would, if necessary, interrupt this in the context of an open, detailed debate, if it passes, so that we can understand each other, so that the rapporteur knows, we have had to consult on how to deal with it. Now, then, Mr Bláha, with a factual point, then a colleague Mihola, with a factual point. We are still in the general debate, so the procedural proposal is directed after the general debate to decide on it. Now my colleague Bláha with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to the labour code that has been raised here. It's a question of the Labour Code. Ask everyone who works in hospitals today how the labor code is followed, how many hours doctors have worked, how it is reported. And the same is true in stores and other organizations where there is a shortage of labour. Bypassing the Labour Code is a normal matter in the Czech Republic and everyone does it. We all know about it, keep quiet and wave. That's one thing. And the second thing that was said here. You keep talking about someone being free to decide. He can't decide freely. If you deliver to a wholesaler, then if you don't deliver on the holiday, then you're done, because just bakers, pastrymakers, but others are waiting in line too. So you're out of luck. If you don't, if you don't get people to work to make the bread, you're done. But the same is when you negotiate a contract, the extension of the contract in so-called. department stores. I'm experiencing it now, I've been answered, just your comments and your demands for a change in working hours... I've closed all my branches except where I have to be open, and I wanted to change the fact that I won't be open on the holiday when I change my contract. I just can't. At that point, it would have been written to me, "Evacuate your unit." I have $10 million invested in that unit. So think about what's probably better for me, whether to cancel or continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Mihola, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u60	I'm just a brief response to my colleague Beitl. We could tell each other, he's a neighbor of mine, but so you can hear it, too, and we haven't been keeping secrets. Speaking of support, etc., I'd like to ask myself the same question as my colleague Bláha here just now, as they do abroad. If we don't know, let's get going, they're definitely doing it, and they're handling it, and they're not falling apart. And the law's been going on for a while. It's just for selected holidays, but I think we'd have a line of restaurants here if the problem were to rise. I don't think it arises.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. This was the last speech in the general debate. I don't have another application. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for the final words of the plaintiff's representative. Mr. Patrik Nacher - yes, he's interested in the final word. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I didn't apply to the actual ones so we wouldn't prolong it and move on. But in order for something not to stay in the air, I have to respond to some things. Mr Mihola has raised an argument here, or he has refuted an argument that has not been made here at all. Economic aspect. Neither I nor any of the petitioners here has argued with the economic aspect that economic growth would start. So you disproved something that no one here was talking about. We are always talking from the beginning about freedom of decision, freedom of choice - if you would, my colleague, listen to me, through the President. When it comes to expertise on square meters, let you do those when you're designing 200 meters. So design 300 meters, 400 meters. And of course, whoever has 401 will be discriminated against. Why is the one who has 400 open and the one who has 401 closed? Why should restaurants, cafes be open? That's where people work. Or as the multiplex was said. It's even divided somewhere that you go into one big business center and some are closed and some are open. posilovna. Fitness. There's gotta be somebody there, too. And who will determine that? So stop going to restaurants on weekends, Sundays, holidays. I'm sure you like to go there as MPs. So if you want to argue square meters, bring something in here, but don't force us to bring forwarders who don't agree with this ideological approach. And now a very fundamental argument, and you know that I'm very attached to consistency of attitudes, and I'm always upset here when somebody runs out of arguments, so they start arguing how it is abroad, how it works abroad. Now, my colleague, I'm going to offer you an argument that seems to be against me, but apparently, because I'm not arguing, so I'm going to justify it. So if you, like KDU-ČSL, say that it's closed all over the West, then in that case, when the marriage of the same sex couples is discussed, where it is west of our borders, you'll be in favour. Do I get it right, then? Is that how I understand it? [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] I say, seemingly against each other, because I disagree with that, but I never wave that argument around here. This means that let us simply argue and not what works somewhere in other countries of the European Union. As far as my colleague Luzar is concerned, he's going to be decapitated. Well, we didn't want to slaughter it. That's a simple argument, why not. I don't see him here now, colleague. Well, because if we wanted to do that, we're proposing that the law be abolished normally. We wouldn't have to make a proposal here that defines it, and we know only the wholesalers. And the wholesalers are clearly based on the definition of business law. And there it is clearly defined that another businessman buys there for resale. Just because it's not exactly in the explanatory memorandum that there's not a precise rewritten text from the law doesn't mean that wholesale isn't wholesale at once. Wholesale is simply defined by law and will continue to be wholesale in the future, not to be a big deal. So, please, nicely here, I was smiling rather that I didn't believe in my ears, not that you discovered the core of the poodle. And with all the other stuff, I feel like we're already spinning in circles. The employee's interests... We even got on the job code that he wasn't following. I do not know how non-compliance with the Labour Code is related to the amendment to the Sales Time Act. So if anybody knows anything about anything, give it a shot. Someone here said they're not working the way they're supposed to, union. I can't really respond to that anymore. I even got some reactions from people. And that's where we have to come out of. We don't want to line up how these people are supposed to live. It's just these people aren't labeled. Yes, someone's with their family. And then you have modern today, people living here under the age of 30 single. Or, on the contrary, people who are elderly, who, for example, have written to me by some lady, don't want to be alone, so they prefer to be somewhere between people, in the store. You just can't box it - everyone wants it and we'll plan it for them. But most of all, I'd stress it here again, we're not telling anyone that they have to. We're just saying he can. And we don't want this place to be banned completely thoughtless, these guys have to be closed, so these guys, we're gonna let it open, but if we get some sleep, we're gonna put both the coffee shops and the gym and the multi-kina in there, so we're gonna extend it to 100 square meters, 300 square meters. You must feel it's such social engineering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u63	Thank you for your final vote to the plaintiff's representative. I'm asking the rapporteur if she's interested in the final word. It's not like that. However, we have a vote before the opening of a detailed debate, where three colleagues are enrolled, on the suspension of negotiations until the next meeting, as proposed by Mr Stanislav Grospič. I'll put it to a vote. I'll check you all out first. I'm doing it because when I asked for peace, I also asked that the debates be held in the lobby, so I'm going to give everyone a chance to come to the vote. We will vote on the proposal for an interruption in an open, detailed debate in the vote number 122, which I will begin in a moment. I repeat that we are discussing a procedural proposal to interrupt this point in an open, detailed debate after the end of the general debate until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I've started voting number 122 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 122 of 146 present for 49, against 79. The motion was not accepted. So we will continue with the debate in detail, which I am initiating. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. During a detailed debate, therefore, amendments or other proposals may be tabled and, if the written proposal does not contain a justification, the Member must justify it in a detailed debate. Before I give the floor to Mrs Langšádlová as the first party to the debate, I state the apology of the Minister of Transport from 11.15 to 14.30 for working reasons. I'll wait for the House to calm down. And Mrs Helena Langšádlová is the first to sign up for the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u64	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the amendment of my colleague Kalousek, who is registered under number 1288. The object of this proposal is, in fact, the repeal of the original law, which is proposed by this amendment for adaptation. The reason for this is that the Sales Time Act in retail and wholesale prohibited sales in selected retail and wholesale stores of random state holidays. This law is completely redundant in the Czech legal order, as it does not really solve any burning, social or economic issue. On the contrary, the law creates inequality between different groups of entrepreneurs and employees, and this inequality has no rational core. The most common argument to maintain the ban on sales on selected holidays is that employees are to spend holidays at home with their families. I can agree with that. However, practice shows that many employers make use of this ban for example for various inventories, so employees, despite the ban on sales, have to spend the public holiday often at work. There is also a considerable number of employees, such as students or children who want to work on public holidays themselves. In our view, the role of the legislator is not to be completely unnecessary in such an unsystematic way as to interfere with personal lives. It is therefore proposed to repeal this unnecessary law. Regulation is really useless, as has been said, does not affect the position of employees who have to work very often anyway, is confusing in the original version as well as in the new proposed amendment. I would also like to mention that many chains, and we have seen this on Christmas holidays this year, are closing their establishments beyond the existing legislation. Furthermore, I believe that the behaviour of our customers is crucial. I don't go shopping alone on Sundays or public holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u65	Thank you, Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Now, Mr Jiří Mihola, in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I have fully justified my amendment in the general debate, so I am just signing up for the amendment, which is inserted under number 2127 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u67	I thank Mr Jiří Mihol. Now, Mr Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me two amendments. One standardly submitted under number 1575, in the system as well as justified, and the other amendment, which I will now like to make on the microphone and justify. The amendment is: Law No. 223/2016 Coll., on retail and wholesale selling time, is amended as follows: after the words wholesale or wholesale is added, in quotation marks, quote: in which the sale takes place to the final consumer. End quote, quotes. Reason. This supplement, which I propose, clearly specifies the word wholesale is not equal to large trade and allows, according to the petitioners, this change to those who are as wholesalers only functioning as a supply and interlink between a small businessman and a producer so that even during these festive days they can carry on their activities. In other words, I merely specify the word wholesale and allow intensifiers the operation of those who supply small businesses, but, on the contrary, I allow the intention of the original law to maintain closing hours for large businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-007-022.u69	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. This was the last one entered into a detailed debate. I'm asking who else to discuss in detail. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. There is no interest either from the appellant or from the rapporteur. In that case, I can say that, at second reading, a motion was made to reject the law, which is only discussed at the beginning of the third reading, and there was no other proposal that we could vote on at second reading. That means I can end the second reading of item number 22. Let's continue with point number
