ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u1	10. The draft law amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws /German press 241/7/ - rejected by the Senate I welcome Senator Pavel Štohl among us. I will ask that Mr Milan Hnilička, on the resolution of the Senate to reject this proposal, first of all, comment on the case for the appellant. Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, I will ask the House for peace! If you are discussing the last press, please, in the foyer, if you are discussing other matters that do not concern the present press, also in the foyer. We'll wait for the crowds to settle down... You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I very much appreciate the very intensive debate on the Senate's amendment to the Sport Support Act. All the arguments that have been raised or raised here today are very important to me and to all the submitters. My colleagues and colleagues from the Senate have warned me of many pitfalls that might arise with regard to the establishment of the National Sports Agency under consideration. I listened very well, I tried to answer the questions I had received, but the main thing for me was that during the Senate negotiations I realized even more how important it is and how much we need an independent agency to manage sports support here. It was very beneficial that we received so much insights from the government, from the legislative board, from the finance, education or the interior departments. We have made many comments, but since we have tried to maintain the main point, we have chosen only the most important ones at this stage. Our aim was the technical amendment of the law, which means partial regulation of Act 115 on the promotion of sport, through which we will primarily achieve that we will take the necessary first step that Czech sport deserves, and this is the creation of an independent entity, which is to be the National Sports Agency. Mr. Vystrčil Vystril mentioned that this proposal is literally an assassination of Czech sport. But I am convinced that the assassinations of the Czech sport have already been experienced and not enough in recent years. Corruption cases, the former failure of the main donor of sport in the form of Sazka, a major retreat from the successes and glory experienced by Czech sport by previous systematic work with youth and talent, with coaches and representation. This is our move to help and save the rest of the living and functioning system, his goal is to resuscitate what's left. I mean, here, the whole main sports infrastructure is literally critical. When I think of a colleague from ODS, a ski jumper from Kuba Janda, his achievements, a generation of his followers no longer have anywhere to train. Harrachov devastated, Frenštát similarly, the absolute phenomenon of contemporary sport speed skater Martina Sáblíková and her successors never received support in the form of a single hall where they could systematically prepare. Well, what about team sports? After all, we have not even been able to build a national football stadium in revolutionary history where we could welcome thirty or more thousand fans. However, we managed to devastate the strahovský, with whom we prided our time as the greatest in the world. The surrounding countries, Poland, Slovakia, it's interesting, but they found the funds. And we gave the world Pepa Bican, Masopust, Tonda Panenka or Pavel Nedvěd, and for the boys football players and their followers we haven't done much. What about ours, let me say the most popular national sport - hockey? [[From the O.R., it's football. The speaker laughs.]] He's struggling with the lack of training winter stadiums, not to mention the big ones. Go to the breeding house of Czech hockey, whether it is Kladno, Litvínov or Jihlava, where players like Pospíšil, Jágr, Hlinka, Ručinský, Augusta or the Holík brothers grew up. In what conditions is training there today, hockey is playing and young people are raising, which is a shame in one word. Just for the record, in Finland they have around 300 winter stadiums, in Sweden about 400, we have 160. [[It's busy in the hall.]] But beware - in a similarly critical situation there are traditional organizations such as Falcon or Eagle. This is the real picture of the reality in which the Czech sport is and its sports infrastructure. Unfortunately, much of the criticism that went towards the amendment to the Sport Support Act, both here in the House and in the Senate, concerned marginal things on which the future of Czech sport really does not depend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u3	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace again. And I'm totally serious. So please, let's respect each other, and if you have another subject, please in the lobby! Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u4	Thank you. Those little girls and boys in these sports clubs don't care if Franta or Pepa is the head of the national agency, but it's important to them whether the club gets the money in time and properly so that they can train and prepare, use their talent and their parents' interest for their own development. The marginal criticism of this amendment, which was about whether the register of athletes is transparent enough or whether the Agency's code of ethics is ethical enough to be written by the agency itself, is not at all what solves, for example, the current problem of Czech handicapped sport. This means the problems of all those who have had the bad luck that they are affected by a health problem that basically makes them excluded from society, and sport is the only moment for them to go back into the system and find lost self-esteem, trust and even their place in society. So when we talk today about why the Agency should have more employees than it has been at MŠMT so far, for which we are also being criticized as submitters, it is precisely because these people in the Agency will be engaged in professionally and systematically in all areas of sport, from solving subsidies to promote sport, solving investments in sports infrastructure, electronization and digitalisation of sports environment, of course also in controlling spent funds in Czech sport and the unresolved problem of promoting sports handicapped. We want to work on methodological procedures and linking the cooperation of resort sports centres, we want to promote Czech sport better and systematically so that parents and their children find an alternative in sport to what dominates society today, and that is the digital and virtual world, social networks and basically the loneliness of people in this imaginary world. Dear colleagues, I myself am a participant in this sport environment, which we used to be proud of, and I am very grateful that I was able to grow up in a period when much was involved in promoting sport. Yes, it was a different time, but it doesn't change the fact that the achievements we had at that time in hockey, football, athletics, gymnastics, but of course in other sports, we could still repeat today. I'd like to say that I didn't quit after the end of my career, I didn't just go golfing somewhere in Florida, but I went on to play sports, especially hockey. I've been working with youth coaches who've been running kids since primary school. I was running a program where we tried to professionalize coaches in the smallest clubs, not in the extra-league ones, but in the smallest ones, in those where the coaches weren't professional, and we did it, even though we all know that sport is based on volunteering, and that's right. That's why I'm standing here today, because the situation in sports is really alarming, and there's something that needs to be done. [[16.00 hours]] I believe that the sport should have had its full central entity with us long ago, whether it's the Ministry or the Agency. And I'd like to remind you again that sports, sport organisations, sporting events, sports purchases, and anything that goes on around sports will come into public budgets of up to CZK 60 billion a year. That's not a lot of money. And yet sport is now managed by the sport department at the Ministry of Education by about 25 employees. Don't be mad at me, it's unsystemic, it's wrong. That just doesn't deserve our sport. Simply, if it all worked out the way some opponents also tried to explain to me that it worked quite well, we are not arguing about this amendment today, and our representation would be somewhere else, and perhaps our youth would be much more interested in sport and gym class wouldn't be the most apologetic hour at school. It is a disgrace where Czech sport has reached, and the whole mobility literacy of many of our children, who are the future of our society. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, if we really want to do something about Czech sport, if we want to return our children to the movement and interest in sport, if we want to help our representatives create a quality space for Czech handicapped sport, the first key step is not to let the promotion of sport cower somewhere in the corner of the Ministry of Education, but to set up a National Sports Agency for which it will be very well seen and which will manage state resources to promote sport and will gradually ensure that sport in our society is once again given proper importance, as it historically deserves. Thank you all for voting today for the amendment to the Sport Support Act and the creation of the National Sports Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u5	I thank Mr Milan Hnilička. I will now request the floor of Senator Pavel Štohl to justify the Senate's position. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree, in a vast majority, with what Mr Hnilička has said here. Because here it was mainly described that the current situation in the financing of sport, in the financing of physical children, youth, is absolutely poor, completely trivial. That something has to be done about it. There we really are all in agreement. But what makes us different is how to make that correction. There is a parliamentary proposal that the finances and other matters relating to sport should be in charge of the Agency for Sport. By being an MP and failing to pass the classic commentary procedure, I think there are a lot of not marginal things, but essential things that are wrong set up there. It is no secret that the Ministry of Education, when it gave its opinion on the first draft at all, there were four and a half pages of comments about what was wrong there, what had to be changed. Of course, some things were incorporated into the next reading. But when I got the opinion of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, there was still one side of the comments. And once again, not negligible, but essential, which could cause that the situation will not only improve, but there is also the risk that it can deteriorate, which of course we do not want at all. I will try to say at least a few things that I personally think, and not just me, but also most senators, because in the Senate it was actually rejected by a really overwhelming majority of votes - so which things we really think are not well set up there. In order not to confuse things, I'll at least quote some things from the Ministry. So the Ministry of Education states: "We consider it very controversial to allow people who are not sports organisations to have access to subsidies in the field of sport. We also consider it problematic to disengage the conditions for sports associations which, according to the amendment, can become certain subsidies intermediaries from the state budget. This practice was completely abandoned between 2014 and 2015 and a programme of direct support for clubs was introduced, leaving the sport associations the role of national authorities with the main tasks of developing the sport methodology and organisation of competitions. We therefore consider the proposed ones to be a step backwards." Which is the official position of the Ministry of Education. So it was one of those things. I really have more of these essential things here, but I think I'm going to try to say some more in my own words, and if I'm interested, of course, I'm very happy to comment on those other points. I think it is unusual for the conditions for the appointment of the chairmen of the Agency for Sport to be so freely mentioned. 'Cause we're having fun, it's not against Mr. Hnilička. Because it may be proposed as president of this agency, but it could be anyone else. So he's not here, among other things, at all, what kind of education he should have. He might as well have a primary school. It's only there if I make it awfully simple that five years of practice in sports management is enough. The President of the Agency here really has almost unlimited powers. It has already been mentioned here by Mr Hnilička that in those - because he is appointed for a period of six years and during those six years he is almost irrevocable. So over the six years, it's going to be about 50 billion crowns, and basically one person is going to decide that, that is, the president of the agency. [[A note from the diaper.]] The Member will then, of course, comment on this. The President of the Agency shall appoint his representative or Vice-President of the Agency. Again, there is no mention of the conditions for the appointment of Vice-President of the Agency. It is not at all their material content, if it will be Vice-President of Legislation, Vice-President of Economics. It is simply that he appoints two Vice-Presidents of the Agency. Then it is mentioned in the bill that there will be an advisory body with 15 members. But again, it is not mentioned here at all - it merely appoints the Agency or the President of the Agency, but it is not stated on what terms people will be selected for this advisory committee or how to formulate it correctly. Another thing is, as I said, that the President of the Agency is appointed for a term of six years, and if he really doesn't make some gross violation, he's almost irrevocable. And now, again, we're not talking about a single person at all. Imagine being appointed President of the Agency as a person who seems to be really great, will be hardworking, conscientious. He'll find out after a short time that he's not doing the job well. If he doesn't break any really fundamental rules, the man will be in charge for six years. I think that's another important thing that's not right. The criminal record, it's been mentioned here. Again I can quote from the opinion of the Ministry of Education, you can agree or you don't have to. But I repeat, it is the position of the Ministry of Education. It is not solved at all if, for example, there is some marginal error in the data in the register, what will be done with it. How they'll be repaired. So what we have a fundamental contradiction with Mr Hnilička is how to change the situation in the financing of sport. I'm not sure that by taking it from the Ministry of Education and making it a separate agency, it's in itself a change that will help. I don't have a problem with myself if it was the Ministry of Sport if it wasn't the Sports Agency. Because then, of course, we already have rules that are set for other ministries. I told the honourable Member when he was in our Senate that because the Agency for Sport should operate fully from 1. 1. 2021 - I hope I'm saying this right, 2021 - so if we decide to actually do it from 1. 1. 2021 Ministry of Sport, there's plenty of time to change these things here. Or another option - yes, will be an agency for sport, which will be incorporated under the Ministry of Education. [[16.10 hours]] One last point so far. Mr Hnilička mentioned that the status of employees who are currently working at the Ministry of Education, who are dealing with this, is I think 28. In that proposal, it's 80 in a row. I don't have a problem with three times the number of employees, but I didn't know what the organizational structure would be anywhere in the bill, which means what the 50 new employees would be, where they would be included, what the job would be. And I actually think it really should be there. If you take it, it's about CZK 50 million a year, which will increase wage costs. So, in conclusion, I just want to say that it is not only my concern, but it is the interest of all the senators who rejected this bill so that the situation in the financing of sport improves, and I would love it if we were really able to leave political parties, political views, but to look for substantive solutions so that in two or three years we do not say: it has not worked out for us and the situation in the financing of sport is even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u7	Thank you, Senator Pavel Štohl. And if the rapporteurs of the guarantee committee also want to comment - Mr Juránek is interested in expressing himself on behalf of the Public Administration Committee? He's not interested. For the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Karel Rais is interested in commenting on the Senate's opinion? It's not like that. In that case, I am opening up a debate. I have four applications, two of which have priority rights. First is Mr. Miroslav Kalousek, Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared, then Mrs. Němcová and Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. We held a debate in both the first and second readings of this bill. So I'll just be very brief and perform only to pay tribute to the Senate for its rational consideration. Because there they really adopted an opinion which meant not those or those particular and lobbyist interests, but the interest of Czech sport. The bill's name is the amendment to the Sport Support Act, but if you read it in those sections, you can't read anything there about promoting sport. You'll read there that an agency will be set up to support the sport. It's gonna be about twice as hard as it's gonna be, and now it's gonna be okay. It was wrong before, but it's gonna get better now because we're gonna do it. How and why it's going to be good, you can't read it. You'll learn it's so good, because it'll be us. And here's what I think is probably the most dangerous poodle core. And when I generalize it, in the detail of promoting sport, it's actually the transfer of Babishism to this sector. Of course, every democracy is vulnerable to well-organized minorities, who are trying to bite off the total pie more than it deserves. Prime Minister Babiš remembers this well from when he was one of the organizers of such well-organized minorities and tried to lobby, and often very successfully to bite off the total pie of public funds and public benefits more than he deserved. That was the kind of normal lobbyism that unfortunately takes place in all democracies. Some are more vulnerable, some are less vulnerable, but none are completely immune. It is because democracy is not perfect. And then all of a sudden, the savior comes and says, "Let's get this over with." Let's end up raiding small advantage at the expense of the majority, and let's just do one more advantage for us, and there won't be any more corruption, because we're gonna take it all, and that one more advantage will come to us. This is the sense of Babishism, this is what the Czech public is resisting on the squares and on the streets, and this is what is passed on the meaning of the amendment to the law on promoting sport. We can't read how to do it better there. We're just gonna read that we're gonna set up a new, completely useless office, and because we're gonna do it, it's gonna be good, because no one but us can do it right. And we're gonna adjust the rules, too, and since we're gonna adjust the rules, it's not gonna be corruption anymore, no one's gonna chase Pelty after criminal prosecutions. We're gonna steal perfectly legally because we set up an agency to do it, and we're gonna make our own rules. This is the point of this law. This is the sense of roughly six billion crowns that you want to hand over to a narrow interest group, which - perhaps Mr Hnilička does not yet realize that he is only in the role, and now I am asking you to quote that he is in the role of a "usable idiot" to be used for this. But that's just how it is. The system runs there. So again, please, let's talk about promoting sport, let's reject the proposal to captivate six billion from public budgets, which the narrow interest group will divide according to its political and lobbyist interests. Maybe the gentlemen who are applying for it today, they said, they promised us that we would have two people there, so we'll be there, so we'll support it, so maybe they won't realize that it's gonna turn on them very soon, because they're not gonna have those two people there tomorrow, and it's gonna serve someone else, but first of all, it's gonna be unfair, it's not transparent, and it's gonna be authoritarian. And I have always said when I, as Minister of Finance, was negotiating with the sport Nečasův - and here I give Mr Hnilička 100% for the truth. It was completely untransparable. It was extremely lobbyist, and I've always said that our only concern should be that the money goes to those little guys in their shorts and not those big guys with big stomachs. It's no coincidence that these big guys with the big stomachs of the individual unions are supporting this proposal today because the petitioners promised them that they would all be able to see each other there. Just the little guys in their shorts aren't gonna make it. I beg you all very much to grant the Senate's proposal to reject this pasquil, because this is an attempt to legalize corruption in the sports sector. We're talking about six billion that somebody wants to rip out of their public budgets and divide them according to their own lobbyist and closely political interests. I beg you very much to reject this proposal and go to fair and fair discussions about transparent funding for support for sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u9	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. He raised two factual points. First a colleague Jiří Bláha, then a colleague Milan Hnilička. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u10	My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, I have to respond because I couldn't listen to that. We're all in the role of useful idiots. And that's 30 years, because for 30 years, we've all been composing this mess. The fact that we have paper for something, the fact that we have a law for something, doesn't justify us, or doesn't allow it not to be stolen. The guarantee is always just an honest man who sits in that place. Because look at all the authorities, all the deputies, etc. And we'll find thousands and thousands of mistakes and waste our money. An example of this may be the last political party control office built up, when its budget was to be 15 million, and today it is 36 million. And that's how it goes in our state. [[16.20 hours]] So the fact that we write something down, we put it into law, we write it down on paper, it doesn't justify us, or it doesn't make it happen that something isn't going to be broken into. The guarantee is to nominate high-quality people, which I think is Mr. Hnilička, who I sit with in the office and who we've been talking about this problem with for two years. Because he sees where the money goes, where they split up, where the sport is sponsored out of state money, so it's actually uncontrolled where the money goes. And so on, I could put a number on that, half an hour I could talk here. So it's up to us, the MPs, if we want it to work. But none of us wants to control anything, because none of us even understand anything. And we should all check properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u11	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for a point of fact, thank you. Now, Mr Milan Hnilička's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u12	Well, I guess I'll just give it a brief answer, because I couldn't sit here and just listen to it, Mr Kalousek through Mr President. I certainly appreciate you as perhaps an experienced economist, but you certainly didn't understand the law on promoting sport at all. I don't know if you're here or not, I don't want to talk in vain. I don't know why you didn't mention the things that the amendment names very clearly there, and that transparency is to be ensured, such as a register, such as presenting sport policy to the government and with allocations, which we accepted for example. to fellow pirates. Among other things, the Code of Ethics also. So I don't feel like a useful idiot. As a useful idiot, we may have felt that we were always allowed to take pictures of ourselves in the ranks of winners with the highest politicians in this country. But that was it. That's all that happened. [[A round of applause from the ČSSD and YES benches.]] Luckily, we have an O2 arena here today. Some of the infrastructure that was created today, we say luckyly, it was a huge mess like the O2 arena, so luckily we have it, we're all applauding each other today, and that's why I'm here today. I don't need to argue with you here. I'm sure that's not why I'm here. I'm here for the sports environment. I didn't promise anyone anything. And if anything bothers me, that's how we retreat especially in our traditional sports from the world's rankings. I've tried to name this place several times. Obviously, it wasn't listened to. And on top of your speech, I'm going to say one thing: I think I'm judging you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u13	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, thank you to my colleague Hnilička and now another with the priority right Zbyněk Stanjura, my colleague Tereza Hyťhová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u14	Thank you for the floor. I expressed my sharply negative attitude at first, second and third readings, and I didn't change my mind, so today it's just a few notes. And I have to defend my colleague, Senator Vystrčil. But I'm gonna get to that. Those stew records are a terrible thing. Everything we say, our political competitors or our political partners can use against you. Well, I'll remind you of the 6th of June this year, when the primordial interpelations took place. I understand that each of us doesn't need to know everything and that he might even ask areas that he doesn't understand. I'll read you a question that fell on the Prime Minister. It's gonna be a little complicated. So the question is: "Has there been any improvement recently, and what is the state of payment in the field of sport at all? Thank you." When you listen to the question, you're like, "He's an MP who probably doesn't work in the sport." Because he asks the Prime Minister: What is the situation in the field of sport? Thank you. Do you know who asked the Prime Minister? Honored colleague, Mr. Hnilička. Until 12 days ago, he didn't know what was going on in sports, and he asked the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has talked about how he always says we have an anti-babish, so he always says ODS in the second sentence at the latest, so this time I think it was the third sentence, it's not important. We have a self-critical window of the YES movement today. Mr Bláha said he didn't understand anything, and the Prime Minister, I quote from the tapestry, said: "Czech sport and support experienced their dark times in 2017." In 2017. The budget for 2017 was drawn up by the Minister of Finance of 2016, which happened to be Andrej Babiš. So when we heard from Mr. Hnilička, Mr. Hnilička, about how everything is wrong in sport, he asked the Prime Minister 12 days ago how it is in sport, and the Prime Minister said: The Dark Ages was in 2017. This is just to illustrate the absurd theater that government MPs sometimes play when they intercede on the Prime Minister. I would not suspect, for one second, Mr Hnilička, that he did not know what the situation in the field of sport is. Then, Mr. Ambassador, why did you take our opposition time? Why did you ask the Prime Minister about the microphone? If you know! And today, in your opening act, you proved that you knew. I don't really suspect you. So we had this amateur window where the MP who knows everything asks the Prime Minister how it's so good at sports. And the Prime Minister says, "It's even better than you think, Mr. Ambassador. Minister Plaga, he could quote, that's all good. And suddenly those who have been in charge of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports - and Sports for six years! - and this is a coalition of social democracy and the YES movement, they say that everything in the area of sports funding is wrong, which is why we need a new agency, a new office, it's gonna be okay. I'm skeptical about it, but I don't take anybody's faith away. First remark. Second point. Mr Hnilička said that the athletes lost their chief donor Sazka. But that was their company. Let's stop saying such fairy tales about how someone ruined Sazka! It was destroyed by the athletes themselves! They owned the company. They took full responsibility. That those officials were allowed to host for their own money, and they were grateful to whoever hosted them for their money, that's another thing. But let's not say the state here did something wrong. It was the athletes who destroyed the golden egg themselves! This must be remembered and repeated. And I didn't hear the critical words of those who caused it. I'm sure it wasn't Mr. Hnilička, that's true, of course. Mr. Senator Miloš Vyšil, my honored colleague, I think that even the Senator present can confirm this, is a man very considerate, calm, and if he is already voting - he is very calm, I know him very well - and if he already chooses such strong words that he has voted in the tapestry, he also quoted Mr. Hnilička, I looked into it. [[note from the diaper]] I don't think Mr. Hnilička closed the gate in the Senate and lost it to 10:0. Which didn't happen so often in sports life. But it was a debacle in the Senate, Mr. MP through the Vice-President. I think we can admit that. If he's chosen such strong words that it's an assassination of sports or corruption measures, and those who know him should take it seriously. One final point. By the way, we all know that Mr. Hnilička will be the boss. But item 11 will say that an MP who accidentally got a mandate from the voters and took the liberty of winning the election and took the liberty of putting together a winning team and being in the town hall must not receive a full reward. And the same people who support it don't come up with the same thing with the head of the agency. That would have some logic. I'd hate to be against the mayors, too. But it would at least have some elemental logic. So, in a moment, we'll be taking the mayors' rewards so that we now give the solemnly second reward to Mr. Hnilička as our future boss. So I think that... [[A note from the news desk.]] No, that's what the law says. The law provides for a clear remuneration, there is a coefficient, it is well treated, there is no incompatibility of duties with the duties of a Member as with other functions listed. I really don't mind. I'm against the mayors, I'm against the government clerk. I'm against doctors who are paid out of public health insurance, I'm against teachers, professors who are also paid out of public funds. Because I think the system is wrong. You can be happy tonight that only the mayors can hit it, but if it's voted out, next time it'll hit somebody else. Because in the logic of the matter, why should it be just one group and not the other and the third. And I think it's completely wrong. I will vote against this bill. Let's see if we can get through this. If so, in two or three years, we can ask ourselves if it helped or didn't help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u15	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Jan Birke. It is still ready, signed up for debate, Mrs Terezie Hyťhová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will be very brief, I will not respond to any of my previous speakers, only let me say, I am one of the petitioners, or, respectively, not of the petitioners, but of the co-authors, co-signers of the law, and I remember the debate. Allow me to look at the mayor, too. You know, it's not that easy to finance the mayor's budget. Maybe we have over 50 clubs in this town, and I can tell you that if we didn't give some clubs money, they would have died - now I'm talking about clubs, but they have a huge history, like falcon and others. It's just the way it is, and I don't like it. That's why I was happy to co-sign this proposal. Of course, it's a matter of opinion, someone agrees, someone disagrees. But there's been a big debate here about any move forward on the current situation, when we're going to move it forward, of course, it's a good thing. So, Mr Vice-President, let me Hnilička you a lot of respect, because today, you've become a big target, everybody shoots at you, you're used to it, but the truth is, I'd really hate to have them take your helmet off, and God Milan, or they took your concrete off because it really hurts. So thank you for your attention, and thank you, Milan, for presenting it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mrs Hyťhová will wait a little longer, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u18	Thank you. I would have responded to Mr Stanjura. He mentioned one interpelation here, and I will mention one that also concerned the President of the National Sports Agency, when actually, when I intersected the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister promised here that the President of the National Sports Agency would be appointed on the basis of an open tender, so I would not count on Mr Hnilička here as hard as I did, but he can win this open tender.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We return to our duly registered colleagues and colleagues. The first is Mrs Tereza Hyťhová and a colleague Marian Jurečka will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u20	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to say our position to the SPD on this rejected amendment to the law, which has actually been rejected by the Senate. Already at the last meeting of the House, we abstained from this amendment on the promotion of sport by voting. Otherwise, it won't be today. And we believe that the problems relating to sport should be addressed by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, as is the case today, and there is no solution to the establishment of a National Sports Agency, because it could also happen in the future that any problems in any ministry could solve the establishment of a separate agency. I must point out that it is really sad to know how many people now work in the sport sector at MŠMT and what sport in our Czech Republic looks like now. For us, it is essential that there are no problems in the future that have occurred in the past, for example in the grant titles My Club 2018, and that sport in the Czech Republic is sufficiently secured for all our athletes. But we do not want another financially expensive office, which will have tens of employees and will cost us millions of crowns. That is why we will be abstaining from the vote today. I would add a few basic problems that I think are really essential, and that is, for example, an excessive number of employees. Today's number of employees is, I guess, 28 people. The number of employees at the National Sports Agency should be 80. I did not read in this proposal what each employee should do specifically, what his job would be. Furthermore, we also have a problem with the presidency, which has already been mentioned here several times, whether it concerns the election or its remuneration. And, of course, the problem is the projected financial costs. So that is our position and I think that sport should be dealt with in the Ministry and not by setting up this agency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Hyťhová. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka and Mr Válek will be ready. Please, you have the floor. I already called you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u22	Thank you. Mr President, I'm sorry, I was just running into the hall. Dear members of the government, members, dear colleagues, colleagues, allow me to speak briefly on this amendment. I did not speak to her when she was discussed in the first, second, third reading here at the Chamber of Deputies, because, after all, I am more concerned with other topics related to agriculture and the national economy, but when I followed the Senate negotiations and the outputs that were there in more detail, it forced me to read the law, this amendment, all of it. And while I've been reading this, I've come across a few moments and let me express some concern here that I don't think that even if we all have a general sport and its future and its good functioning, effective funding, on my heart - as a person who has been active in sports until he's gone to politics here, I have five children, five boys, active sports - it's on my heart, I'm a member of one and a sports nationwide organization. It doesn't matter to me, but a few moments that raise my certain concerns about the purpose being positively and well fulfilled, here I am. Firstly, if it was mentioned here that the financing of sport and changing the principles of sport financing is a priority of the government, then I confess that I do not understand why this is happening with a parliamentary proposal, because the parliamentary proposal simply bears - and I too have a bitter experience - a lot of imperfections, and when there was no will within the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, I think that the Government and Prime Minister could have taken over the role of the expert guarantor, who would simply submit this amendment, will be dealt with by proper commentary proceedings, and will take all possible shortcomings and submit it. It wasn't unusual in the past. What happened was that when, for example, the Minister of Resort had a problem with something, he took over this key role as Prime Minister and went that way. So I don't understand why it didn't happen in this case. It has already been mentioned here by the Senator, if there is such an agency with such a relatively significant budget, and when we look at adequate similar structures within the state administration, it is always quite usual that legal requirements are laid down, the minimum requirements that the introduced organisation has to meet. And here in the case of the president, who is actually in terms of pleasure at the level of practically the minister, there is virtually no requirement here, except that he should be in some leadership position for sport for five years, but it is not defined either, so theoretically from our village the president of the falcon, when he did it for five years, with basic education, can meet the requirements of the president of this agency. The same in the case of Vice-Presidents. I ask myself the key question - to whom will these people from the management of this agency answer? If we have ministers, they answer within the framework of the trust expressed by the Chamber of Deputies. MEPs can interpel them, they are in direct contact with them, and they have the opportunity to create some positive pressure on those ministries to function effectively as far as possible, positively. And they may ask here, at this point, what will be the control, motivational instrument by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic towards these people. They don't really have to communicate with the MPs, the senators don't have to do anything and so on. [[16.40 hours]] Furthermore, the question of appeal. I'm aware there's a reference to the code of ethics. But if the Code of Ethics writes itself, it will bring it to the government, it will be approved, so the Code of Ethics can simply be so general and impenetrable that, in fact, even the chance to dismiss the President of this Agency or its leadership through breach of the Code of Ethics may not be a guarantee at all in the future. Subsequently, the National Sports Council authority. In this law, I lack any mention of the key, the principle of which these people will be nominated for this council, whether they will represent some major unions, or it may be people who, although having something to do with sport, do not have to represent the factual objective interests of individual associations. Then there's the register. I'd say a great thing here. I like the principle of the register. I think it can explain many things in a sports environment, lead to purification. But what I have a bit of a problem with is that this register is not public, that in some general data such as name, surname, it doesn't allow me to see whether another sports organization doesn't lead me as a member without me knowing it, or whether it's possible to look at it over a hundred hundred times, I admit it, I didn't read it, but within a certain objectivity and transparency, I would probably expect that I can look at some system through Czech POINT, where my person is led, where I am a member, where my person may be counted and subsequently due to the fact that they have me there, they also claim certain funds. That's what I miss. And then I didn't find anywhere to suggest in that law what priority it would be and what it would be by creating this sports agency, a better distribution of funds into sports. I didn't notice it in the law. In order to say that account will be taken of the number of member bases of individual associations, sports sections, etc. That's just what I miss. I don't know, now we have a system that is cursed here, which is considered, let's just say, potentially corrupt, we don't know how these cases are gonna turn out, and I have a problem with that system, too. But where is the guarantee that this system will be better? What's the guarantee? So if, for example, the translator can take me - and please, let's not take this personally, it's just my questions, to answer that, I'd be very happy. Again, perhaps it would be good to really say, the criticisms, the comments are quite fundamental. We don't argue, or I do personally, that these things change systemically. But I think that if this were to be done by a real government amendment, by settling a good, inter-departmental commentary, we could save ourselves a lot of unideal situations in the future. I've had a lot of enthusiastically done on my knees with an MP's novel in the last six years. But I don't know one case where we would say: we were enthusiastic about making a big change in the parliamentary amendment and it was a really good solution. We've always fixed this place in six months, a year. But here we can just correct something that might have big consequences, because we're talking about six, seven in order, if the Prime Minister fulfills his promises in terms of sports financing, maybe ten, twelve billion crowns. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u23	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. Before we continue with Mr Vítězslav Válek's speech, I will read two apologies received by the President of the House, from the Minister of the Interior, Vice-President of the Government of Jan Hamáček within 18 hours and also apologize for working reasons within 18 hours by Mr Daniel Pawlas. Now, Mr Válek, Mr Lukáš Bartoň will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I was just waiting for my fellow Members to look at you and I apologize for stalling. But which one of us didn't play sports when he was young? In times when I used to have notes and class reprimands for long hair, I also washed up on endorphins. And the times are gone. At some point I threw myself into the Olympiads of Mathematics and Biology, and now I understand that this was a bad trip because of sports - we're dealing with an agency that will deal with the financing of my work. We do not deal with the Agency for Culture, although our congregations in the Czech Republic were the best in the world and in Europe, and today they fall because they don't have enough money, and there is a huge number of young people singing there who do it in their spare time, with their money, paying for their conductor. And yet we don't. We don't deal with various amateur theatres that do it in their spare time, on their own, on their own money they pay their directors, and yet we don't do it. All right. Let's talk about agencies. Let's do a culture agency that will fund interest rings and all these activities that young people want to pursue cultural activities, not sit by computers, not sit by cell phones. But actively engage in culture. We don't care! Strangely enough, we do not discuss education and education this intensively, although I am convinced, and sincerely convinced that investment in education, in mathematical, physical and other Olympics, in all these activities, which are in secondary schools and are dramatically underfunded, which are in primary schools and are dramatically underfunded, and I believe that your children, your grandchildren, participate in these competitions, participate in the recitation competitions, participate in the mathematical Olympics, participate in the Olympics of the Czech language. That's not what we're dealing with. Even if investment in these activities is done many times, it returns many times! [[with emphasis]] And oddly enough, that's not what we're dealing with, that's not what's bothering us. We're in sports. We are worried about the Agency for Sport, although the Ministry of Education and Sport should address this and should address it intensively. I think we should tell each other what we want to achieve! Do we want to make it stop stealing in sports? We want to make sure that once a quarter of a year they do not appear repeatedly and cyclically with organizers, godparents from the soccer environment, with organizers and godparents from other sports environments - the more money there is, the more of them, because they try to take as much money as possible for themselves. So if we want to deal with this, then I must say for myself through the President - yes, the Member is a man I consider honorable and decent, and I believe that he is able to do this honestly and decently. But do we need an agency for this? Do we need it for culture? Just because the director of the National Gallery has been called away, and the culture is losing money, as I've heard here? Do we need it for science, research, and support for children to pursue these activities? Then why in God's name do we need her for the sport?! We really need it so that the money goes to the little ones, like some people here said, the kids, the kids who, in their spare time with their parents, the coaches who do it in their spare time, want to run around the playground, do hockey, football, anything and want to have fun? As others of their peers who are inclined to engage in art, to engage in literature, want to have fun in other activities. And others who are interested in science and research want to engage in other activities? Or are we doing this so that we can plant the money where it's been lost for years and where it's been discussed by those who make money and who do it for a living? So let's say. Let's talk about what's really for the benefit of these kids. Of course, we want to have children who will play sports. Each of us. I think it's without political debate that it's the consensus of all normal people. We all want to have children who will have quality education and who will be able to attend to their hobbies, entertainment, interests, will not sit at the computer, and thank you once again, through the President, the Member for the words, they will not sit at the phones, but either they will play sports or they will engage in art and culture, or they will engage in science, all these are activities that are equivalent to me. And I don't know what makes society more profitable in the long run. Personally, I think they're gonna do the science thing. Now, let's see what's going on with the money. Six billion a year for this agency. For the GA grant agency of the Czech Republic 3.6 billion per year. Do you feel it's the right affair? I'll take the Czech Republic and GA CR together, that's the same thing that goes to this agency. Do you really think that's the right ratio? [[Upset.]] Do you really think that sport has dramatically no more sponsors than science and research? [[with emphasis]] Do you really think Prvoliga clubs don't have much more money than science and research and that the state has to put the same money into the Agency for Sport and Research as in the two largest grant agencies?! Doesn't our scientists, researchers deserve - and I'm going back to those children - that we don't deserve to support these activities at least as much as we want to promote sport? She really doesn't deserve it? Do you really think so? And do you really think that in science, in research, in art, in all these circles, you can get sponsors as easily as a football club can get them to a hockey club in any city? [[16.50 hours]] You're sitting in the D.A.'s office. Remember on your regions, in your cities, where you sit, how much money you give from your sports activity budget to professional clubs. How much money do you give from the budget to support the mathematical, physical and other scientific Olympics, how much money do you give from the budget to support the rings. Everybody say it for each other! Yes, sport is needed. And I want my kids to play sports. I want them to play sports and try to zoom in on patterns such as those of the President. [[Fertiliser]] I applauded him, too. I cried on the TV. I want my children to devote themselves to art, to my children singing, to my children's literature and culture, and I want my children to devote themselves to science and, if possible, to be experts, scientists, researchers. If they have the talent for this, for any of these activities, I want them to be the best in it. And I think that's what all of us want. And we want the citizens of our Republic to be able to do this. Is this sport really so special that we have to go to sleep and build it completely unsystemically outside of these other activities? And is it really that important to the future of our nation? If so, then we agree to vote in favour. If not, let us consider whether the Senate proposal is not a better solution, and let us not discuss all these issues together. [[Very strongly and emotionally.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u25	I thank Mr Válek for his speech. He raised two factual points. The first is Mr Ivo Vondrák and Milan Hnilička will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u26	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I will be happy to respond to Professor Válek, because we have precisely defined the grant and technological agencies of the Czech Republic from public budgets for the purpose of promoting science. I think the same purpose is, in fact, the creation of a sports agency. If it's not enough or a lot, I think it's debatable. However, I have to say one thing I know from the world. Both science and sport and culture are quite undersupported by private means in this country. But if we change it, I really don't know. It's really about making those who have the resources realize it so that they don't carry them out, leaving them here under social responsibility. And I think if culture doesn't have an agency, we're facing the question of why no one has created it in 30 years. Let us do this and define separate budgets for these areas and, above all, find a way to put in them funds that are not public but private. In our case, it really fails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We continue with further factual remarks, which are at least three: first Mr Milan Hnilička with a factual remark, then a colleague of Mr Válek and Mr Karel Rais. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u28	Thank you. I will try to respond quickly to my colleagues Jurečka and my colleague Válek. I appreciate your confidence in me. Culture has its ministry, it is managed by the Ministry and also by some fund, while sport is managed only by the sport department since the twenty-five, if it is even there, by the people of the Ministry. And they're already dividing $7 billion today, and that's the problem that they don't even have time to produce any analysis. We would like them there in the My Club programme, which concerns state-level funding directly to the smallest clubs, without anyone touching it on the way, no union, no roofing organization, sent it in the form of a contribution, but for that we need a functional register. How can we have it if they don't even have a properly based IT department? They use the external cooperation of two people who help them work on it, and it's all very slow because of the personnel department. That is why we are talking about the need to increase the number of employees. It's not because we want someone to sit on their ass and look out the window, but because to prove it fairly, objectively I say, that's basically not possible in sport, but to split money fairly between the smallest organizations, so we need analysis, and that includes investment, and we need people who are going to deal with it every day. That's Mr. Jurečka's answer. Then funding can be better. The register is absolutely crucial and should be at the heart of the Agency or, where appropriate, the Ministry. It's an absolutely important tool to get to the funding. Why sport? Health savings. Research also involves sport. Effectiveness, cooperation with cities and regions, that's what you need people to do, and that's not what's happening today, and you can ask anyone in the sports environment. And we're still gonna talk about my club here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u29	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for a point of fact. Mr Válek's point of fact now, Mr Rais will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u30	Thank you very much. I thank the President very much. That's how I understand it. That's not even the issue. But through Mr President, you said it, if it works the same way as TA CR and GA CR, the agency, I have no problem. And I firmly believe that those who are at the head of the TA Czech Republic and the GA Czech Republic would jump to a height of several meters if the TA Czech Republic and the GA Czech Republic could function as well as this agency. I think we both know that, and there's no point in dissecting this place right now, and we both know what I'm talking about. For myself, I would like dramatically to support the creation of the agency if it were the Ministry and operated according to the same rules as the Ministry, or if it operated according to the same rules as TA CR and GA CR. That's all I'm talking about. I'm talking about setting things up, something that's completely different than anything I know, that I've known so far. And, yes, that would be it. You are absolutely right, sport leads to a reduction of a number of diseases, prevention and so on, in a healthy body healthy spirit and not only that. You're absolutely right, I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Karel Rais's point of view now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u32	Thank you. I would just like to emphasise the fact that this agency was created. During the last parliamentary term, opaque reached such a level that there are basically criminally prosecuted people and police had to intervene in the ministry, we all know that. That's where it needs to be simplified, cleared. And of course, there can be a pattern in the general plane of functioning of the TA Czech Republic and GA Czech Republic and these institutions. And I think it's only a good thing that sports resources are set aside side by side. I mean, just look at the school committee, which is simple because we're talking about culture, we're talking about sport, we're talking about youth, we're talking about science and research, that's just a huge mole. So it's just a good thing it separates in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I have two more factual points. Now, Mr František Vácha, Mr Ivo Pojezný, colleague Bartoň, will be prepared, and with a factual remark, the flow of the applicants will be interrupted. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, government, I think the fundamental problem here is the agency's control work. There was some sort of review board in the original proposal, there were representatives of Parliament, all of this just disappeared there. And when we talk about GA Czech Republic and TA Czech Republic, the GA Czech Republic, for example, has a bureau appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Council for Research, Development and Innovation. Then he has a scientific council appointed by the government on a proposal from the Council on Research, Development and Innovation, and then he has a supervisory board, I don't know how many, about 15, 20 people appointed by the Chamber of Deputies. If we had similar control mechanisms in that agency, I think we would avoid many of these discussions about whether money will be exploitable, whether it will be used transparently to promote sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u35	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Ivo Pojezný's factual remark, will be prepared by colleague Jiří Bláha, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me to respond briefly to my colleague, Válek. He was talking about professional sports, making money off of you. Well, of course they will, but the novel on promoting sport is about supporting something completely different. This professional sport is a profitable job, they're gonna make a living, these state budget clubs aren't gonna make a dime, they're not gonna be able to represent. Otherwise, both football teams, hockey teams, as well as basketball teams have completely professional sport separated from amateur and it is also a requirement of international organizations dealing with sport. So let's not confuse sports support as support for professional teams. It's exactly the support for the youth we're going to, which is why we were doing the eight. It's my club today. We've talked about it a few times. And who was against that in the last period? It was you again. ODS, TOP 09. [[17,00 hours]] Today I know that the direct funding is going about 33 percent to the youth, so something has improved after all. Another I don't know 25-30 percent goes to the youth sports centers, to the former top sports centres focusing on children and young people. So as far as 70 percent is concerned, today, directly coordinated to young people's sport, let's say on that basis it's a performance, but also a top base, but not a professional one, it's only good. The words I've heard from the senator here are a little bothering me. They say where what's wrong. Did you come up with a solution? You didn't come up with anything. You said cancel the agency and work on something new. And I'm most sorry about that. You're not a productive organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u37	Good afternoon. With a factual remark, Mr Bláha. Mr. Válek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u38	Colleagues, colleagues, I'll be quick. There were just a number of things that were said here, like that TA CR, GA CR is a guarantee of something. Go ask all the colleges and researchers if the money they're getting is targeted at what they need. Nothing. You'll learn that they need everything completely different. So the fact that we've made some laws here that we should support something and that we're going to support something and that we're giving money for something and that the money is going in the right direction and that we're mainly able to check where they're going and what they're being used for and how they're being treated economically and in no way. All the researchers I talked to always said: problem, problem, problem, problem. So let's do it like this. And the same thing is here. If we've got the Ministry of Culture here, let's put the bloody pressure on him to support the culture, let him develop the children culturally. We have the Ministry of Education here, so let's press back on it, whether it is developing a research area or developing children in order to educate themselves, to go forward in thinking, etc., etc. But we don't have the Ministry of Sport here. And the agency, that's the project of not making the money go where it's still going to this day. And I don't think we have to lie to each other that a lot of people don't like it today because they're gonna shut down the faucets. And the faucets may end up with the biggest screamers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u39	Thank you. Mr Válek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I certainly don't attack, though it may seem that way. Something I actually agree with is an unfair distribution of money into sports. I'm sure it's the right thing to do. And I repeat again, and I am happy to repeat that, through the President, I appreciate it, and I believe that he means it sincerely and truly wants to support the young. However, I am fascinated by the fact that, through the President, we read the same material with Mr Pojížný, both of whom were educated in college, and we each read something different in it. I read in it the promotion of sport and no division of amateur, professional, top I did not see there, but only the promotion of sport. And even in the defense and in what was here as the opening word, it was clearly said about the national football stadium. I don't really think that's where those guys who kick amateur football are gonna be at that national football stadium. And I don't see the problem in promoting top sports. Yeah, well, sure there's a stadium for speed skaters and more. I don't see the problem at all. I don't even consider it legitimate. Feel free to get Sparta's money out of this, or I don't know which football club, and wins the Champions of European Countries Cup. But there was definitely nothing about it being an amateur sport. And through Mr President to Mr Bláh. You probably know more researchers than I do. Unlike you, I did the research and I have to say, GA CR and TA CR, really good, and fairer and more honest and better money distribution organizations I don't know. And I wouldn't use the wording in my life here: all the bakers I know are swearing at the rolls that are being sold I don't know where, and we all know how the rolls are worth anything. I don't understand, so I'm not getting involved!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u41	Thank you. Mr Jurečka with a factual remark. Mr. Bělobrádek will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u42	Thank you. Therefore, I also have to rely on what Mr Bláha said in technical terms, although I think that he is certainly a successful person in his field, I suppose he is honest. But flat-out and saying that, in fact, in science and research, everything here is practically stealing, it's going somewhere in a black hole, and saying the same thing about sports, where there are hundreds and thousands of honest sports enthusiasts, officials, however it sounds, who haven't stolen any crown in their life, that sounds to me like it's really unfair. The fact that in every area, sometimes more, sometimes less, some things fail and sometimes what happened here two years ago is unfortunately a question of sometimes systemic errors, and then you have to ask yourself: is it more a system or was it a human error? Maybe that's the one that nobody laid down in the analysis of why it happened back then. Otherwise, I would say, my colleague, through Mr President, you are firing into your own ranks. Because when I look at who is the Prime Minister of Science, Research and Innovation, he is the Prime Minister, the Chairman of the ANO movement, Andrej Babiš. When I look at who the Vice-President is, he is the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček. And I can keep going. So if you have a problem with how GA CR and TA CR work, then you should probably go first and deal with these people and you don't have to enrich us here in this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u43	Thank you. Mr Bělobrádek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government, fellow Members, I would also like to take the liberty, Mr President, of responding to Mr Bláha. I don't know that in the four years I've been in charge of science and research, something's been stolen. If you have that knowledge, it's your duty to point it out. A lot of things have become more effective for us. And a lot of things have been saved. I do not know any other area of public administration where we were able to break free from inappropriate, disadvantageous contracts with regard to the IT system. We have built a new information system, which is operated at half the price before, and we have also saved tens of millions of crowns for not continuing the disadvantageous contract. I am also convinced that if you are talking about Karel Havlíček, I just want to point out that he was elected to the Council of the Government for Research, Development and Innovation on my proposal when I was its chairman. So only so much for him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u45	Thank you. We will continue with the speech of those who are enrolled in the general debate. Mr Bartoň will be the first to speak. [[The Prime Minister is reporting for word.]] I can't hear you. Are you reporting with priority rights? [[Yes.]] Yes, then, of course, we would prefer the right-holder to Prime Minister Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I did not want to delay, but I will say some facts after all. Science and research - please, it's not just GA Czech Republic and TA Czech Republic, so we can't compare here... my colleague Válek spoke about 6 billion, or how much. It's 37 billion - science and research. And the increase in the last five or six years is 10 billion. And I don't know where my colleague Bláha is getting that information, and I think the money for science and research is very transparent and it works perfectly. I'd like to get back to the sport. When I became Minister of Finance, the budget was 3.6 billion. And we had the Czech Olympic Committee here, which had a de facto tax sign from gambling. And why did he have it? Because the best finance minister, and he's not here anymore, I don't see him, he just didn't give them the money. And that is why every year, with the increase in gambling, the Czech Olympic Committee received more and more money. [[17.10 hours]] And of course it was a huge lobby, and it wasn't easy to reverse it, and I reversed it by saying one night on TV that I'm increasing from 3.6 to 6 billion, because those athletes are hundreds of thousands, thousands of clubs. And the fact that we neglected sport and that we didn't pay attention to it, unfortunately. So then it happened that there weren't two funding centres, the Czech Olympic Committee and the Ministry of Education, but one, and that was the Ministry. I find it extremely unfair how Mr Stanjura speaks, how he ripped it out of context. Yes, Pelta's affair is a dark age. And now I'm not gonna talk about the ODS deputy who distributed money at the InterContinental Hotel. Just this morning. He couldn't handle it this afternoon because he was drunk. So please, we could do the ministry and the athletes always wanted their agency. They've always wanted to. And Milan Hnilička is an athlete. He was in Nagan. He's an honest boy! And I'm sure he's not stealing or stealing. And he has no interests there. His only interest is that money goes into sports transparently and directly. So I don't know what the problem is here. If there's any fear of controlling it, I think I can promise here if I'm still in office, that we'll show everything. We'll show you everything. No problem. So that's the story of the sport. We have raised money there every year, and it is still little, because the existing sports infrastructure, only 10 percent of the existing sports infrastructure, has been built since the revolution. And the fact that we lack a lot of background here for mainly young athletes is quite clear. That's pretty obvious! So I don't understand why there's such dislike for this project, when athletes actually wanted it, and we were de facto indulging them. And 7 billion - the Member compares things incomparable. 37 billion is science and research that puts the state into it, plus, of course, privates. That's 60 billion in total. So these are incomparable things. And the money, when the requirements were for the Ministry of Education, for the investments of clubs, was usually met by 10-20 percent. And we want to increase it, and significantly increase it, because try to go somewhere in a dressing room - in Jihlava Horácké stadium, hockey locker room. You can't breathe in there. It's like ammonia in a factory, like a chemist. That's where the kids are getting ready for practice. Horrible! So we want to do this mainly for young athletes, also for their parents and, of course, especially for our country, because the huge advantage of sport is that even though I'm reading in the paper how divided society we are, when we won it Nagano or Ester won it, the nation united. And maybe that's the target and that's where we're going with the sport! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u47	Mr Válek and Mr Bělobrádek will respond with factual remarks. In that order. Just Mr. Válek, then. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I completely agree with a number of things that have been said here, and I repeat, I respect Mr President very much, but I am convinced that if a person were to receive the Nobelův Prize, that nation will be as well united as when we won Nagano, and perhaps in the long term it is more advantageous for the nation to have the Nobelův cena again, as well as Wichterle, than to win Nagano again. But that's my feeling, and I admit I'm deformed in this regard. Anyway, as I recall, when we got Oskar for Forman's film, the nation also united and everybody applauded. There's a whole series of things when the nation unites. However, in order to lighten it and not to be a negativeist, I firmly believe that the agency, and I firmly hope so, will solve the financing of the great price of the city of Brno, which is certainly the place where the nation is uniting at the motor competition, and it is one of the big companies. And I'll be happy if nothing, so that the agency can sort this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u49	Thank you. And now, in the general debate, Mr Bartoň, Mr Juránek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u50	Thank you. I would probably react to the first mention of TA CR and GA CR. I wish some of our grant titles worked just like the Czech Republic. Really, if I wrote a project in TA CR, I competed with it, so I got money out of it just for the things I wrote in the project. That was delicious. As far as sports are concerned, I must say for the pirát that we identify with the Senate's view. We will therefore not support this proposal, just as we did not support it at third reading. I've been saying this in the past for a long time. I would like, as one of the things, one of the positive things, to highlight the proceedings of Mr Hnilička, who, although a coalition MP, came to the opposition politicians and discussed this proposal from the beginning, from the beginning to the end. We had long discussions several days, several weeks. The fact that we didn't agree at the end is different. There were some plans here in his opening speech about the vision of sport. I'm sure we all want to promote sport, but we're just not united in what the sport is. When I take the law on promoting sport, as I see it, it says - money, means of promoting sport go first into the sport of children, youth and also national representation. So what I'm imagining underneath is that the main package of money, the biggest, is going to go into the free time sports of children and youth, supporting these very children to move, to play sports. And I'm just going to point out, it's three quarters of a million children who currently regularly perform sports. It could be a million. This is what I would imagine would be the main metric of promoting sport, getting this number to a higher level, getting it somewhere a million, to 100 percent of children and youth engaged in amateur sports. In the meantime, I've heard plans here about a speed skating hall, a national sports stadium for 30,000 people. Yes, that's something we could put in that category of national representation. However, these projects are so expensive that they take money from three quarters of a million athletes. It is precisely the promotion of sport at national level that should be directed to the sport of children, to the support that every child, regardless of the family from which social and economic conditions he comes, should have access to sport so that it is not a burden for the family. I would also like to support this if it is to support the construction of infrastructure, infrastructure at local level, where children and amateurs will play sports and use it from morning to evening. Because what do we get with a big speed skater track? We'll get dozens, hundreds of possible representatives tops, so we'll sit by the TVs and watch how they're doing at the World Cup. If we invest in national representations, we'll be sitting on TV again and watching someone else do sports. From where I'm sitting, it's not a sport, it's a sport. She has a place, too, but let's not confuse her with sports. I guess that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There is an application - with Mr Bělobrádek's factual remark, but since it is not here, it probably does not apply. He surrendered and then rejoined. But it is Mr Juránek's turn in the general debate, followed by Mr Klaus. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u52	Mr President, Government, dear colleagues, I would like us not to run away from the subject that is here. It is neither a scientific agency nor a comparison with a scientific agency and it is not about sport as a whole. I'd like us to realize that we're talking about an amendment to the Sport Support Act. Then it should only be the matter of the sport as a solution. So many of the things that are going on here are related to a different law than the one we're discussing right now. [[17.20 hours]] I was the rapporteur, or I'm the rapporteur for the guarantee committee that's been dealing with this issue here from the start. Although one law, namely EET, has already preceded us, we have discussed a total of 165 amendments. The fact that this was dealt with in a complex way was that it really listened to everyone. At this point, I would venture to say that we have taken advantage of all three ministries that have dealt with this and all the incentives. That means the ones who said something about it. For example, I will give an example to a colleague who was before me, colleague Bartoň, through the President, was a person who actually brought a number of good suggestions into this. And I dare say that, with all these debates, all the amendments, whether they've been dealt with one way or another, this law has been improving. And I dare say that this law can never be created under the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. The reason is simple and simple: because this Ministry has not dealt with this since 1995, when it was the first time to deal with the basic things that are in this sport. And now I'm gonna say what's really important about this, and please feel me a little bit. Since 1995, a register of sports organisations and people who work in sport has been dealt with. It is worth noting that even last year more than 10 million athletes were registered in this register. Please tell me how 10 million athletes can be listed in a register. Now that we've actually put ourselves into this in the past few years to show the record normally, we haven't even reached the number of $2 million. This means that at this point, there is already a great deal of disproportion in relation to certain justice in the distribution of funds. A colleague in front of me said that young people are now roughly three quarters according to the new register, so I don't say an inaccurate number, so we don't agree, roughly three quarters of a million. Yes, but there were more. There were more of them than there really are in that age category! [[emphatically]] [[Attention from the diaper.]] Because, of course, the most - I'm going to moderate, thank you. So in this case, we realize that there were more children than we have. And, of course, those grant titles were directed in the way that those who had more children were also given more funding. I'm so glad we got to the number eight grant title, which is my club. However, I mean, it's the only grant title that works well. And that's where we get into a situation where some clubs can't reach it, or virtually. they're going to have to return the funds now. I think it's gonna be one of the things that we're gonna have to deal with, because I already know from the field that a number of those who worked on it, my club didn't somehow bring these things to an end, and that number's probably gonna be very high. And I'm just thinking, we're here looking for justice in the distribution. I don't think there's ever gonna be 100% justice in the distribution of anything, but here, if there's a record, if there's rules in this amendment to the law, that's when it means we're getting closer to the fairer distribution. And I can now say that no one here in the sports environment has said the problem of the past to apologize for it, and I will now say out loud for the sports environment: Yes, the sports environment received large funds from Sazka. It was given literally and to the letter of a gift from the state that the money from Sazka went to finance the sport, and this environment succeeded in this gift. Since then, efforts have been to somehow involve this in the state budget. And I just think that even the agency that can come into existence now, and I dare say that it can only arise today to overvote the senators' proposal, so only on this condition can we postpone the financing of sport in any way. I would really like us to walk away from all the side thoughts that are here, and to say that even those who speak against it say: we would vote in favour if there was a Ministry of Sport. What was the effort of the petitioners. The efforts of the petitioners were to make the agency as much as possible comparable to the decision-making at ministerial level. And so, when we subsequently looked for a way against this agency, after we approved it here, it turned out that it was much easier to use certain emotional expressions, which I completely disagree with, especially as regards the attack on the person of colleague Hnilička. And that, don't be mad at me, it's like all the players were shooting at this goalie and taking away his gear. And I'd like you to think about whether his personal skills are less than the skills and education of NHL managers. And please discuss especially those teams that have been successful this year. I would very much like us not to interfere in this personal plane, because I believe that the sports environment also wishes, among other things, that a person who is from a sports environment and who has a good name in a sports environment should be at the head of such an agency. And I completely disagree that this person is irrevocable, on the basis of the amendment tabled by fellow pirates with this aim. And I ask you to think really well about the exact text that is there, and to realise the responsibility of this agency. This agency is accountable to the government. And I dare say that, based on what you read in this material, it is thanks to the amendment of fellow pirates that this person is called off at every government meeting. Try reading it, try comparing it. And I dare say I'm right about this thing. Such a real one. I'm not going to debate how the code of ethics comes into being here, but I know that if there is a code of ethics, it can't exist without a direct supervisor who is the government, virtually. the prime minister of this country, whoever he is, so that such an ethical code is written differently than the government that is in control at the moment. That is why I would like us to really let go of our emotions here and realize what we are going to decide. We will decide whether or not there will be a change in the sports environment. And if anyone at the moment thinks that a team of people is making that decision, the subsidies aren't making that decision. It is decided by officials and decided by the Minister of Education. I dare say no one else decides. So I would ask that we compare all the things that have been said here a little bit and say to each other: is the situation that is at the moment appropriate to what we wish for? It was said from you here, collectively, whatever side you were on, that you weren't, that you weren't happy with it. And I'm asking if this agency is going to come into existence, if that's better. And I'll say - I think it could be better. Of course people always matter. But I'm just convinced that it could be better, because I think it can't be worse than it is right now. [[17.30 hours]] Therefore, allow me to ask you again, and all of you, no matter how much you've spoken here from any side, to free yourself from those emotions, to look at it completely factually and try - or I hope that today we will overrule the Senate's veto. I hope we don't regret it and see for ourselves, that's for sure. One thing -- on the other hand, if we don't vote for the Senate's veto today, we're not going to do anything about sports in this parliamentary term. And I would very much hate for the situation in sport not to shift, both in the area of youth and in the area of our representation. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u53	Mr Novák's point of fact follows. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, dear fellow Members, I thank my predecessor very much. I'd just add, because it was said here that we have 10 million children who are sporting slowly, which is three to five times, and it wasn't completely explained why, so that you wouldn't think that they're cheating so much in sports. Please, it's not like that. It's just that Dad wants a football player, Mom wants a swimmer, and the boy goes to athletics because there are pretty girls there, so he's registered to three clubs with one kid, and then these three clubs take a grant. It's about how the grant is written. It's not about the fact that there's some kind of cheating under the subsidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u55	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me just add to my honourable previous speaker, Mr Juránek, who was here in favour of this proposal, that he probably forgot to draw attention to his conflict of interest because he is the chairman of the Eagle's body organization and, as such, has an quite eminent subjective interest in it. [[protest voices from the left side of the hall]] I think it should be heard. I mean, he said when he talked about Sazka's company, that the state here gave some extraordinary gift to the athletes when he allowed them to use the proceeds of Sazka's company. I dare say that's not true. The State did not give any gift in this case to athletes, because Sazka had already belonged to sports unions in the pre-November period, and Sazka had taken over the period of post-November, and Sazka had never been a state since November 1989. Sazka belonged to sports associations, including the Eagle Sports Organization. If I recall correctly, the predecessor in the position of President Eagle Juránek was Vice-Chairman of the Sazka Supervisory Board, then different body associations had their various shares there. It was never a state company. It always belonged to the athletes. And the athletes really took advantage of the proceeds. Logically, each owner makes use of his company's revenues. And athletes took advantage of their own company's revenues, which I'm sure you can't call a gift from the state. It was none of the state's business. The athletes had Sazka, it was theirs, and they took money from her. Athletes have done something that deserves a record entry in Guinness's record book. The athletes robbed Sazka themselves. Whenever the state tried to warn them, they stood on the back and said, "Don't talk to us, that's our company, and what you're gonna tell us about how our company is supposed to manage." And the state has always acknowledged that there is a rule of law, that it has nothing to say to them, that it is theirs. So they managed there so successfully, they had it stolen. sazka came from the country, and in the course of the execution, someone bought it, today it is a private subject of someone other than athletes. But historically, she was athletes, and athletes took her exceptionally bad, and I would say often by corrupt management, they just let them steal it quite normally. The state was powerless because he never had any ownership. So if anybody's responsible, then just the physical unity of the Falcon, the Eagle, the Association of Sports Unions, all the shareholders of Sazka, but definitely not the state. It wasn't a gift from the state. And the moment those athletes had it stolen under their hands - I emphasize with my own people and their own people helped it significantly in the body of the company - so suddenly they started screaming "state, promote sport!"which, of course, is a legitimate challenge because the state must promote sport. We have been looking for various forms of the most transparent way to really promote sport, to promote sport and sports with several advantages, not the advantages of the heads of the unions, such as Juránek, who is President of the Eagle. I don't want to touch him right now, but he's one of those Babiš he's touching, because he wants to touch that amount of money and then tell his own eagles: look at me, look at me, look at me, Hnilička at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me. Well, that's how Babiš and Hnilička made a deal with all the buffoons in the sports unions. That's why they support it. [[There's noise in the left side of the hall.]] Therefore, it is not a system for promoting sport, but it is a system for creating a sports agency and mutual support for sports squirrels. That's just the way it is. I'm sorry that you're told by a guy who's just been working in public budgets for 25 years and who, I admit, has never found the right and transparent way. He never pushed him, even though he tried. And I know that what you're proposing right now is nothing more than entrusting 6 billion of taxpayers' money to a tight group of squirrels who lay down their own rules, so it will no longer be threatened by criminal reports and investigations, because it will go exactly according to their rules. Find some rules in the bill. That's where you'll find the agency's gonna do it and that it's gonna do it right. And you want to give them the $6 billion? Please don't do this. If the former excellent hockey player, who played in the NHL and represented the Czech Republic, asks you to do so by the head of one of the body organizations, the Orla movement, I dare say that what you now wish to approve is simply a simple stealing of 6 billion in favor - [[Members on the left protest loudly and bang into the benches.]] What you're about to approve now is a simple theft of 6 billion in favor of - [[More loud protests from the left.]] Let's do it again. What you are about to do now - what you, dear colleagues, are about to approve is a simple theft of 6 billion from public budgets in favor of a very narrow group of squirrels who have made the body a business, but certainly not a mission. [[Once again, the MPs are protesting loudly and banging into the benches.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u57	Thank you. Mr Juránek will now respond with a point of fact, followed by Mr Svoboda, with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have listened well to my speech, I have made it very clear that Sazka's sports environment has really succeeded. And to be clear, it was a joint stock company in which the Eagle had a share of 0.89%, exactly. That is, just so we know exactly what size and the degree of responsibility this is. And I was talking about it on purpose because there really was a big chance. The chance was not given by the fact that the money belonged to us as a state, but in any case Sazka and similar things in other states are in the hands of the state. And the state didn't take it after 1990 and left it to the sports environment. [[17.40 hours]] So there is some sort of distribution of the 6 billion crowns at this time, and given that the very things I've been talking about in terms of the register are set in the long term, that's why this is being divided unfairly at the moment. On the contrary, at the moment someone - and I will not talk about it, try to assume it, or try to calculate it, look. Everyone, like me, could see how the money was distributed. So you can see who gets more money than those parameters that are needed in individual unions. And I dare say at this point, once again, that as far as the distribution of this money is concerned, it will be fair. By the way, what Eagle gets out of this is due to the share of 19,000 members that Eagle has, compared to maybe two million that we can work out within the agency. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] We haven't gotten to them yet. Please take this into consideration in your vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u59	Thank you. President Stanjura apologizes until the end of today's day for work reasons. It is Mr Klaus who is next in the general debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, good day to the new week. I would like to begin by wishing to Mr Hnilička for today's holiday, and of course I apologise to other Members not to be biased - because there was such a accusation that those who are attacking this law are attacking poor goalie Hnilička, so I am not. On the contrary, I will say that the person of the goalkeeper and the MP is the best thing about the law. Now, the second thing that's heading over there, this time from Mr. Kalousek to the left of those rows. You're slowly beating your head against the counter that Prime Minister Babiš is in for a conflict of interest, and subsidies, what a terrible thing it is, and everything has to be dealt with immediately, and you have to deal with the newspaper. And at the moment when there's a grant law coming into the House, a law for the creation of a new office, Simsalabi, it's no longer so. It's okay. We're gonna touch the subsidies, too. This is where I heard Mr. Juránek's previous speaker. Odeea has a free vote, so it's not as principled as it used to be. And all of a sudden, things are different. So I'd say for us, for Trikolóra, there aren't many of us, yeah. [[Laughing and applause across the hall]] But I've already got one poll, there'll be more of us. Well, I'd say for us, this is just a new office. And otherwise, there's nothing going on in this sport. So we'll be against it, absolutely calm. If it's the law that the taxpayers' money gets to the youth coaches, I'm here with you for any improvement. But this is just the emergence of an office, away from that power, money, from people who are elected to some agency. I've been fighting this for a long time. So that's why we're not gonna support the law. But some of you think about yourself a little bit. But it's impertinent of me, I'm not your mother. But yet I appeal to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u61	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský apologizes from 17.45 a.m. to the end of the day for family reasons. With a factual point of view, Mr Válek is registered. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u62	Through Mr President, I just wanted to apologize. Now, as the debate is here, I realized one terrifying thing. And I don't look it. I'm one of those guys who's responsible for ten million athletes because I'm registered in five sports clubs. Well, if they're taking my funding, you've got to do something about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u63	Thank you. I have no further written application for the debate. I don't even see anyone in the O.R. checking in. So I'm done with the debate. Is there any interest in the final words, please? [[- No. Senator Štohl: Yes.]] Mr. Senator is interested in the final word. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u64	Thank you for the floor. I won't keep them long. It was just from one of the speakers that the Senate did not act in a creative way. I would simply add that if the Senate does not agree with the bill, there are only two options. Either make an amendment or reject it. We were really discussing whether to make an amendment. We discussed this with the Senate Legislative Department, we discussed it with the members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, and we agreed more or less that one or two amendments would not change the situation. That is why we finally decided to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u65	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Bartošek. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Before the final vote, I would like to take a half hour break for the KDU-ČSL club by 18.15 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u67	Yes, I will grant this request. So I'm declaring a break for the KDU-ČSL MP's meeting until 18.15 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 18.15 a.m., the time for the KDU-ČSL meeting has ended and we will continue our negotiations. Let me introduce you to my apologies. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes until the end of the day for reasons of work, Mrs Markéta Adamová has been apologizing since 17.45 hours for personal reasons. We have finished the debate. The final words have also come up, we can proceed to the vote. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. Please set the necessary number of votes. Thank you, it's done. There's a checkout request. I've checked you all out, please log in with your voting cards again. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House press 241/7.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 949 registered 168 Members, for 101, against 36. [[the joyous cries of the Coalition Members]] The motion was accepted. [[Scandalous applause. After a while, the messengers report. Black.]] Excuse me? Madame, who...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u69	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I object to the vote, to the previous vote. On the high road, I have said that I voted in favour, but I voted against it. I question this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u70	Yes. Mrs Černochová is questioning the vote. Mrs Vrecionová is also voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u71	Thank you. I, too, am voting. The same thing happened to me as Mrs. Mrs. Černochová. I voted against, and I have a say in high school, so I, too, question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u72	Yes. Mrs Černochová, Mrs Vrecionová is questioning the vote. We will therefore vote on this challenge. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the number 950 vote, 172 Members signed up, for 164, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote once again on the approval of the proposal for a law on the promotion of sport. We're ready for the vote. Initiating vote. There is a request for withdrawal, which was made when I started the vote, but I will comply with it. I've checked you all out, and I'm asking you to rejoin your voting cards. The vote is, of course, invalid. We are now ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the 952 vote, 171 Members voted in favour of 104, against 45. I state that the bill has been passed. [[The joy and applause of the Coalition Members.]] There's gonna be a vote check... To the vote, Madame?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u73	Yes. I question the vote. I voted against, and I got high. So I question this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u74	Yes, I understand. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can hear what is said from the speaker's desk. The honourable Member is questioning the vote. There is a proposal to challenge the vote that I will now vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 953, 174 Members voted in favour of 162, against 1. The motion was accepted. We will vote again. I hear an application for check-out. I checked you all out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We're ready for the vote. We will vote on the proposal for a law on promoting sport. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 954 171 Members signed up, for 102, against 48. [[The joy and applause of the Coalition Members.]] I state that the bill has been passed. I thank the Senator, thank the appellant, and I conclude on this point. President Kalousek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u75	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I would like to ask Mr Hnilička's petitioner not to take my comments personally. In his case, I have no doubt for a second that he thinks he's doing a good thing right now. Nor do I doubt for a second that they will find out in a few years that they have damaged the Czech sport. But it'll be too late.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-18-ps2017-030-09-006-010.u76	Thank you. I'll introduce you to other apologies. From 18.15 to the end of the day, Mrs Šlechtová apologizes for family reasons and the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons. The President of the House of Vondráček apologizes from this moment to the end of the day for working reasons. We're going to go with point number
