ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 30th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first check you all out and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I'm really going to ask you to take care of this and always apply. It happened to us last week that a few people didn't come forward, and then we have to do it again, because there is no more written presentation, to find out why you were absent, so that you wouldn't have to be absent. So far, I have a report from Mr Oklešťek, who will vote with replacement card number 11. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the meeting: Ondřej Benešík - foreign travel, Jiří Bláha - working reasons, Stanislav Grospič - family reasons, Tomáš Hanzel - foreign travel, Martin Jiránek within 16 hours - working reasons, Jana Levová - working reasons, Jakub Michálek from 18.20 - working reasons, Mikuláš Peksa - working reasons, Olga Richterová - family reasons, Karla Šlechtová within 19 hours - working reasons, František Vácha - personal reasons, Jiří Valenta - foreign travel, Ondřej Veselý until 14.30 - working reasons, Rostislav Vyzula within 16 hours - personal reasons, Jan Zahradník - foreign travel. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] Members of the government apologize: Lubomír Metnar within 16 hours - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons. I'm gonna ask you to calm down so I don't have to shout over you. Thank you. I'll ask you to settle down in your seats. I would first like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. We propose to adjust the course of the negotiations on Wednesday, June 5, as follows: we would start the morning part by discussing points from the third reading block, up to 14.00. Then we would discuss the voting points, which are now fixed at 12.30. That's paragraphs 184 to 191. Then a lunch break would be announced within 16 hours. At 16 o'clock, we would begin the afternoon part by discussing points that are now fixed at 14.30, and these are points 43, 122 and 41. Furthermore, on Wednesday, June 19, we propose to include the following points at 14.30 following the already fixed points 39 and 94. It's called. opposition window. Point 96, House Press 375, is an amendment to the Administrative Rules, a proposal by Members under the direction of Martin Kupka, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others. Then paragraph 115, House press 422, amendment to the Act on Air Protection, this is the proposal of Radek Holomčík, Dana Balcarová, Jan Zahradník and others. Then, paragraph 108, House press 401, the proposal of Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others, is an amendment to the Civil Code. Then, paragraph 47, Parliamentary Press 152, the proposal of Members of Stanislav Grospič, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Pavel Kováčik to issue a law on legal aid. Then, paragraph 34, House press 267, the proposal by Members of Vít Kaňkovský, Radka Maxová, Jan Bartošek, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Olga Richterová, Alena Gajdůškovášková and others on the provision of benefits to disabled persons. Finally, paragraph 83, House press 313, amendment to the Act on the change of seats of some state authorities, proposal of Members of Jan Farský, Vít Rakušan, Věra Kovářová, Petr Gazdík, Jana Krutáková and Petr Pávek. So, that's all from the Gremia side. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. And now we're going to focus on the agenda of the meeting. Here I received several written applications before the start. So Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is signed in first, then Minister Richard Brabec is signed in - sorry - that is correct - to the agenda. So, Prime Minister, you have the floor. I already found a website. This is a sign-in with priority rights. There will now be five priority rights, or six. Additional applications for the agenda, if possible, please in writing. Thank you. Okay, I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u2	So thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all know that the main point of today's House will be the audit case. This is where we learned from Friday that allegedly because of my conflict of interest and because of my former firm, the Czech Republic is supposed to be returning some money. I want to make it clear that that's not true. And I'd like to ask the media not to say it and repeat it. I understand that when we were sitting here on Friday and Mr. Kalousek solemnly announced that the audit had arrived, and all the media began to overtake who would publish it first, and everyone published it, even if it was confidential, but I guess it doesn't matter, so I don't mind. And then they started to overtake the amount to be refunded. Which, of course, is a lie. Because the audit is very dubious. And I consider the audit an attack on the Czech Republic. For attacking the interests of the Czech Republic. For destabilizing the Czech Republic. So they were overreacting to what amount. First 250, then it was 451 and today one diary - which was also mistaken that there were supposedly 4,000 at the demonstration in Brno - was there a thousand - so he wrote that he was going to return 900. And now everyone's chasing who they're gonna lock up! He's already publicly criminalizing who's gonna be locked up. I don't know what it's for. [[14.10 hours]] I just want to say that there's no money coming back because of Agrofert and me. And I would like to say that in 15 years of membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, we have returned - and now listen to citizens - the taxpayers - 35 billion crowns. And have you ever heard of the media writing this? 35 billion in 15 years! And not just that! I'm gonna get to that, of course, and I'm gonna talk about it for a very long time, because I think the citizens need to know. And they've also detained $17.8 billion. The European Union is already holding on to us on the basis of a mistake - 17 billion! So 35 billion is gone, that's what you taxpayers paid, from your taxes thanks to traditional democratic parties, that's their result, 35 billion. But you didn't pay anything for Babiš and his old firm, and I guarantee you, you won't pay anything at all. Because the balance sheet of Babiš and my former firm towards Mrs Schillerová and her budget is that the Czech Republic has received 50 million for Capi's nest, and the company that was entitled to it has returned it, so the balance is plus 50 for me and my former firm. And this is where they cost you $35 billion! [[Laughter from the opposition.]] And I'm going to be very specific about it. Let's get back to the audit. The draft audit report shall be non-standard. I say it is a dubious audit - already within delivery. The draft report was sent to the Permanent Representation in Brussels only in paper form, not electronically, which has always been the case before. Therefore, the permanent representation in this case had to scan the report. For example, as opposed to any other such document, this one came in without a accompanying letter, it is not mentioned who drafted it, nor is it at least formally signed by anyone. So theoretically, if someone faked the head of the European Commission and put a number on it, delivered it at the reception somewhere on Wednesday afternoon, called ahead about something important coming up, it might as well be a forgery, but I don't expect it. So, as important as everyone refers to it, the official document does not have the essentials and is only under the general heading of the European Commission. So it's really very unstandard. Of course, there is an atmosphere here - last night the Czech Television kept repeating it, and since Friday it repeats itself, the half-truths, the conjecture, without anyone waiting for the reaction of the Czech state, Czech officials, civil servants under the service. Because what does it say? And I thank all the media that I could find out where the message was. It says clearly, and now everyone listen carefully, the European Commission writes: This report sets out the provisional findings, conclusions and recommendations of the Commission's auditors, which may change in the light of comments and other information received from the national authorities. This report should therefore be considered confidential until the follow-up is completed by the final conclusion. If the whole or part of the report is transmitted to the persons concerned by the audit in order to enable them to submit comments, make sure that the information referred to in this paragraph is transmitted at the same time. - That's the clause. So confidential, preliminary. And we had this case where everyone said they were coming back 22 million in March 2017, and then they didn't come back for a year and a half. And I understand that this is actually going to be an opportunity, and today is a demonstration again, and a hundred times repeated lie is probably true for some media. So once again - a dubious audit, an attack on the Czech Republic, and I repeat that nothing will come back. And 35 billion have returned, and I'll get to it. So let's go back to the beginning of how it all came about. I've been accused of conflict of interest all along. Chamber of Deputies - you have adopted Lex Babiš, a special law against Babiš. Because, of course, if you can't beat us in the election - and we won the sixth election seven years since the movement started - and I thank again all our voters who weren't afraid - if you can't beat us in the election, you're gonna smear us. They want to disgust us. Well, we didn't, we won again! I'm sorry. So I've been accused of conflict of interest all along. So Lex Babish. And I was based on Lex Babiš, who then caused the problems to the mayors, then everyone forgot that it was Lex Babiš, founded two trust funds in order to avoid alleged conflicts of interest and separated from property, namely, 100 percent of Agrofert's shares, a.s., which I owned. I left Agrofert at the end of January 2014 when I became Minister of Finance. And here - Lex Babiš - I followed the law as you accepted it here. In September 2018, the Czech non-profit organization Transparency International lodged a complaint against the European Commission that there was a violation of EU law and conflict of interest. Of course, in a touching match with the Pirates, even though Transparency International still doesn't call itself a political party, but the whole argument is based on data in the Slovak register that I am the end user of benefits. So that I am the real owner under the Law on Legalization - Attention - under the Act on the Legalization of the Income from Crime and the Financing of Terrorism and that I actually continue to control Agrofert, a. s. Absurd! So according to the law on the legalization of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism, I was supposedly in control of society. The whole structure is meaningless both in fact and legally. The Act on the Legalisation of Income and Financing of Terrorism logically affects completely different situations and this corresponds to its terminology, which cannot be mixed with normal commercial legal situations. The law isn't interpreted as appropriate. In our legal order, we apply basic interpretation rules of law. And I just want to go to Transparency International, why I'm talking about her so unkindly, I think she's corrupt. Who does she serve anyway? Does he serve anyone outside of Czech interests? Because when you look at the money they got, they got almost 15 million from the Ministry of the Interior in 2009 to 2017, 14 million from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the European Commission gave them 9.2 million. So who is it? What is it? Open Society Fund, this is some Mr Soros, who gave them $9 million. [[Laughter from the opposition.]] And OLAF gave them 4.2. The ODS is laughing, but it should remember when the Czech Railways were tunneling here under the ODS, and you remember it well, how your crooks in the Czech Railways were covering for CZK 1.3 million at the time. So I would like to say that that's when the European Commission started to look into it. Mr. Oettinger and I exchanged letters. 17. 12. 2018 was also handled by the government. There has been an exchange of legal views on the interpretation of the article of the Financial Regulation on conflicts of interest, and at the same time, while I still insist that I am not in conflict of interest, I am as a helpful step to avoid any doubts, resigned from the ESI Council, which is the Board on Funds. And I am not involved in discussing the government's point of reference to the ESI Funds. Of course, you can look that up in public records of government negotiations. [[14.20 hours]] The whole time, there was talk of violations in relation to the Brussels Regulation. However, this audit speaks of a conflict of interest within the Czech law. So according to the document, it appears that the auditors of the European Union copied from the Pirát and our legendary corrupt nonprofit Transparency International, or just the same Čech kept writing it. And by the way, that psychopathic informer, he cost us $800 million in corrections, respectable citizens. That's what we had to return when he turned us in under the MMR, and the police and the Financial Administration didn't investigate anything. Of course, I can assume that the audit is a Czech matter - by the way, two auditors were supposedly Čech, but they didn't write in the report, they're not there, and one Polák, and I don't want to speculate that it's an attack on the V4. That because I am there criticizing and abolishing quotas with Viktor Orbán and criticising the European Commission's inhospitability, that the European Parliament is costing us EUR 2 billion and that it is costing us EUR 877 billion. I don't know. I hope not. I hope not after the V4 is a problem. In Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. I almost don't want to say it. And, of course, that's where the government changed after massive demonstrations. So I firmly believe that's not true. I'm sure we'll find out in that opinion. So it is strange that instead of Brusel dealing with the relationship with the Czech Republic, which was dealt with in December 2018. And you remember that Friday night, the European Commission's internal document escaped. Got left-wing immigration Guardian and Le Monde. I woke up Saturday morning with 50 texts. Internal document, some, for someone, I don't know why he escaped. As it is now. Confidential. Everybody's got it. So I am surprised that instead of Brusel dealing with the relationship with the Czech Republic, they are discussing whether I have acted in accordance with the Czech law. In doing so, I did all of this to comply with the Czech law, which you accepted only because of me. That's why he's called Lex Babiš. And no one's responding to the constitutional complaint yet. Agrofert, I put in a fund based on the fact that the Czech legislation told me that if I want to be in politics - and this is mainly about me not being in politics, which is why what's going on is happening, I cannot own or control this company. And I did it exactly under the law of Lex Babiš, so it was approved by the Czech Chamber of Deputies. The preliminary draft audit report states a pointless claim that I should be in conflict of interest by being the real owner and controlling Agrofert through funds. The whole thing is based on an absurd design made up or copied by some European official who please interprets our Czech law nicely. So Brusel is telling us our laws, and it completely rules out the application of the European regulation of conflicts of interest. So at first in December 2018, they spoke that I had a conflict of interest, that there was a European decree, and now the auditor is telling us the Czech law. So what I'm saying is that the correction, that means that someone would take the money from us because of the traditional parties here, I repeat 30 billion, the correction cannot be based on the Czech conflict of interest. When auditors themselves say that the European conflict of interest under the 2012 Regulation does not apply in the new Financial Regulation and in its adjusted conflict of interest and its infringements have not even been mentioned by the auditors themselves. European officials are here to interpret Czech laws instead of European legislation? So Europe will be what? They've already dictated who we're supposed to take, we're supposed to take migrants, then they're imposing money on us, what programs, and now they're going to tell us Czech laws. European auditors. Moreover, it is still contrary to the basic legal structures on which the Czech legislation stands. So let me get this straight. Not only do they interpret Czech laws, they still misinterpret them. And I'd put it like that. The European clerk despises Czech laws. Brusel advises the Czech Česko how to interpret its own law. And at the next European Council, I will ask how it is. Is this the European Commission? Yes, I don't know why that is. My wife's watching a show, a game called... [[A clue from the diaper.]] Game of Thrones. I'm not looking at it. But now we're playing the game in Europe and the throne, that's the President of the European Commission, that's the spitzencandidate. Some want a spitzencandidate, some don't want one. Well, I hope it's not part of the game. Someone said they didn't put it before the election to influence, but it's interesting. Interesting. So it's game time. I can assure all commentators that we are regularly in contact with the premieres. I'm going to Portsmouth tomorrow, and I'm going to see some European prime ministers there, and I'm going to talk to them about it because I think it's scandalous. That I am in conflict of interest and influence decisions on European subsidies. Yes? This is how he interprets the European clerk. The present system of granting European subsidies to the Ministry of the Environment and the State Environmental Fund is fully in line with Czech and European legislation, and at this time there is no reason to change it in the light of the above. OPŘP is one of the Commission's programmes in the past repeatedly examined. However, after a very preliminary examination of the documents that appeared in the media, we can now say that it is hard to believe that the published documents are indeed the official result of several months' work by the auditors of the European Commission. Only on the basis of publicly available resources can it be demonstrated that the draft audit report contains false information in relation to the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Environment, and the claims made therein are clearly fictional. I consider that absolutely scandalous what they say about Minister Brabco. Total nonsense. And I assume he's getting off. These are the first rapid findings and the first factual verification of the super-perfect and brutally devastating audit. How everyone says it's overwhelming. Babiš is devastated. I'm devastated by the audit. I'm not crushed. I was looking forward to finally getting off here, and maybe people will, too, because the lies that are in the audit. It went off again last night. And why wasn't there an opinion? Why didn't they ask? Why don't they wait for the position of Czech officials? No, the ministers aren't gonna do that, and I'm not gonna do that at all. Our officials will do it. Ours. And the accusations against Brabec are unbelievable. I think it's really for some legal action. The statements made by the auditors on all these points are completely false - quite false - although it was actually easy to verify and, from the point of view of one particular department, create serious doubts about the objectivity of the whole proposal. So there's gonna be an audit, unsigned, just weird, but our media's got it all figured out. He'll be coming back. Lie, nonsense! We were returning $35 billion, respectable media, but you forgot to write about it. Who we were returning for. But I'll get to it. So, of course, I understand if anyone here from Friday to night from Friday, the whole weekend, last night, is trying to tell people that Babiš took something again, that it's causing hysteria and that it's manipulating the public. And, of course, they probably think that's their job. And, of course, I'm glad it doesn't work because people can find out the information and find out it's not true. [[14.30 hours]] In grant policy, there is no system of Babiš, as Mr. Ondráčka of a corrupt nonprofit tries to falsely claim. In the audit itself, the audit proposal, there is no evidence that I, as Prime Minister, would influence the decision to grant European subsidies. And the Prime Minister can't. And I would never do such a thing. I'm not crazy! I won't give you a chance to catch me. I've never done it. And I work free for people, from morning to night, paying for everything. The fact that it's hurting my firm, my ex-wife, and my family, I don't think anyone cares. In the squares, everyone's screaming - Babiš to prison! The Attorney General, who, I don't know what he's coming from, is already clear to everyone. Everyone will be prosecuted. Well, it would be good if Mr. Attorney General looked at the 35 billion that our traditional parties have wasted here, 35 billion. They're already looking at some, but the ROP Northwest, like 1.8 billion. So it would be interesting for them to know that I don't just feel that in our country there is an interest only in prosecuting Babiš and his family and his former firm. So again, I would never do anything against the law. And if our citizens notice, they know that the opposition, the media, have nothing on me in politics. They're just digging up some old things that are, of course, untrue. I would never dare to influence the only decision that would have been made for my firm, my ex-boyfriend. I'm not gonna make anybody so happy. In this context, it is important to mention the fact that the Commission itself admits that the preliminary draft audit report may change, but our media do not allow that. That's the thing, the headlines, the famous Cypriot company - the headline "He's coming back, he's coming back, he's closing" Absurd political chase. So the Commission admits that the preliminary draft audit report may change. And I'm convinced he's gonna change anyway. And I'd like the others to at least admit it. And we have - here was actually a proposal for an emergency meeting or a point, so we have met on the basis of a draft which the European Commission itself does not comment on. Even Czech civil servants didn't get the chance. And they said they only saw it preliminaryly, and we'll see how the ministers would perform. So I must say that the audit does not concern ministers and officials from the ANO Resort. Not at all. And it's not -- and it's not even a matter of time when I was Prime Minister. No. The audit goes much further. And it's auditing projects that have been applied for and that have been awarded since 2013. But the audit is back until 2007. So there are supposedly specific errors in the ministries and in those ministries mostly, except for the Ministry of the Ministry, there wasn't even an YES movement. So it's really a dubious, misguided and untrue message that has the marks of an attack. An attack that is actually being waged against the whole Czech Republic. So it is not an attack on a Babiš, as everyone would like, but it is a threat to the Czech Republic, a threat to Czech companies. And that is why we must reject this nonsense that has arrived from Brussels - and, of course, the media will live on it now for weeks, months - on the basis of hard facts and data. Because interpretation, for example, about the MIT, about some program for energy subsidies and allowances - if it were true, as if it were a lie, too many Czech companies would be affected. That's why I say it's an attack on the Czech Republic. So what happens now? The Czech Republic and the competent authorities will now analyse this draft and subsequently take an opinion on it according to the standard procedure. The analysis shall be carried out by competent accredited officials who are specialists. They're people under the law of public service. So talking about the ANO movement is total nonsense. We must wait according to the procedural rules for the Czech translation of the draft, which will be ready within about one month, and then all the managing bodies and providers, i.e. individual resorts, will join the commentary and debate. The final audit report should then be completed within three or four months. So, of course, I have no doubt that even though I'm calling on the media not to lie and say that something is going to come back - and they can deal with it, you could do the analysis of the 35 billion we've lost in 15 years, you taxpayers, irreversibly. Well, that would be interesting to do a show like that. So it is not true that feedback on this draft is only going somewhere in a closed circle under ministers for the ANO movement, as they try to speak up the opposition and the media. There is a standard legal regime and this process will certainly be followed. Everyone's already commenting on the contents of the draft without any previous analysis. Unless we count that the journalists have translated and interpreted this technical legal text in their own way at a time when even the Czech competent authorities themselves have not been able to comment on it. So a clear word - I did not break either Czech or European legislation on conflict of interest. Personally, I fundamentally reject the conclusions and justifications of the draft, the audit. The Czech Republic will not refund subsidies. There's absolutely no reason for that, as I said before. So we can go back to 2017. On 21 March 2017, reports began that the Czech Republic should return 22 million crowns of subsidies. I've already talked about this. The suspicion of conflict of interest also concerns Agrofert, of course, because Faltýnek was sitting in an agricultural intervention fund as a member of the supervisory board while working in the management of Agrofert, allegedly. Petr Kudela, former KDU-ČSL Member and Ladislav Velebný, also sat there for ČSSD and they were all investigated by Brusel. And then Mrs. Vrecionová said that Faltýnek should pay for it himself. Well, how'd it go? It turned out that after a year and a half of the report on 30 August 2018, so a year and a half after someone claimed that the Czech Republic had to return 22 million, so what the report said, the European Commission says: In the view of DG AGRI, there was a financial risk at the time of the initiation of the investigation as a result of a possible conflict of interest, but the examination of the information provided by the Czech authorities did not reveal any evidence that the risk would be fulfilled. In addition, corrective measures have been taken. Therefore, no financial correction will be proposed in the context of the above investigation. So once again, March 2017, everyone says that the Czech Republic will return $22 million. August 2018, a year and a half after that - nothing returns. And I'm convinced that's how it's gonna turn out in this case. But, of course, the process will take time, and certainly the selected media will still say that something will come back. It won't! So what's very important is that some of the media kept it a secret. Audit processors point out that the final conclusions may differ from the preliminary conclusions. As I pointed out to you about the translation of the intervention fund, it's nothing unusual. So, at the end of this part of my speech, I want to say a much more important thing. There's no tangible evidence in that document, none, not one. There's just no proof that I signed anything, that I ordered something, that I could be privileged! Or have someone show me that kind of evidence. I'm happy to wait for him! [[14.40 hours]] Now I'd like to talk about the corrections. I must say that I am shocked by the balance of traditional democratic parties, which in 15 years of membership of the European Union have cost us taxpayers 34 billion 753 million. You're hearing well; 34 billion 753 million. And 17 million in custody, 17 billion in custody. [[dissenting response from the diaper]] Well, we can look into it. To the right, the biggest package. When was the correction? Commission Implementing And I don't know if it was for which minister, whether it was for Mr. Stanjura or for Řebíček - 14 billion. That's where the whole system was modified. Well, we remember well how the construction companies said they had to pay 4 to 7 percent of those highways. The whole system was -- we paid it, we, the taxpayers. Fourteen billion. Unbelievable. I would recommend that we have a special meeting for this, because it's a long story. ROP Northwest, billion 886. That's like the only case in court. But perhaps the Attorney General will also analyse this, the 35 billion spent in the history of our country, the wasted European money that we had to pay, us taxpayers. ROP Moravia-Silesia, ROP Central Moravia, Northeast, Southwest, Central Bohemia. I had to laugh, today even the pirát announced that they allegedly stopped some subsidies from Prague for Agrofert. I don't know why they say that when no one ever asked for anything from them, so complete nonsense. So let's take a look at this, let's have a special meeting, and we can talk about it, how about who took the taxpayers' money from here. No? Let's try to have a meeting, and I agree. I think the point that the communists have here, the privatization atrocities, that was a good point of how it worked out here. But, of course, our media doesn't care. But I think it'd be good to see who stole who's money from here. And the psychopathic informer, when he reported that day, I was the Minister of Finance, the Czech Republic for investigating the start of the audit of the MS2014 system, which was being investigated by the police, investigated by the Financial Administration, and found nothing. And that cost us 800 million, folks. Eight hundred million. This is the person who has the contacts, and if it's just an action of Czech structures, it would be good to know. So this guy's talking about some kind of criminal responsibility today. So it would be good to really go back to that, and to make sure people know who took their money. Of course, I'd like to talk about my old firm here for a while, because it's still here that my old firm lives on subsidies. And, of course, the media that publish it only spends their money on income tax. And social contributions are resources for pensions, respectable pensioners. Resources for pensions. And health insurance is for health care, for hospitals. So I just want the media to label it, because, of course, in general, the Czech companies are rising their personal costs and profits are going down and they always show up purposefully as far as my former firm is concerned, as it is. So only for the media, if you'd written. In 13 years, my former company has taken 33 billion 470 million into public budgets and received 4.22 from the Czech budget. And in 11 years of investment, she invested 101 billion, and the investments, the subsidies from Europe and the Czech budget, are 3.3 percent. [[Voice from the right: so little.]] Yeah, so little, 3.3 percent. And these, of course, are things that can be traced. But I understand, before the election, everything was going on here. Toast. No scandal! That someone here invested 517 million in a toast line and got a grant of 100 million, they employed a lot of people. No? You're still driving, you're still attacking. You just forgot that my old firm saved a bunch of businesses that you guys had leaked and went bankrupt! Olma, Synthesia, Church sausages should long after death, Lovochemie. [[Laughing and screaming from the right side of the courtroom]] Well, you're welcome to laugh. The ODS used to challenge me here all the time. Sausages. I had church sausage last night, Mr. Chairman Fialo. And they had 90 percent of the meat, and the ham is 92. [[laughter from the right side of the courtroom]] [[Restlessness and noise in the right side of the courtroom.]] And you guys were making a video here. And it would be good if you did a little research, because those chains decide whether to buy the sausage where there's 90 percent of the meat or ham, where there's 92 percent, which supposedly costs 54.90 or javořice, there's only 40 percent of the meat. [[Laughter.]] And they're the ones that sell the chains most. And you know why? Because it costs 27.90. So please don't talk about the food industry here. And I think that I'm here to gossip about my former business where ten thousand families work in the grocery store, and they work under difficult conditions, because of course I did the stupidity of going into politics, and they're suffering for it, so I'd really like you to get a little familiar with it, a little bit, how it really is. So let us go back to the European Commission, how it actually works, and why I stand at the European Council, and when we all say for premieres mainly V4, but another one is that the European Council is to take the lead. The board? So let's take the detained 17.6 billion crowns. Well, why does Mrs. Schillerová have a deficit of 50 billion? Well, because the European Commission has detained CZK 17.6 billion since April 2018. Since April 2018, the European Commission has held back CZK 17.6 billion. And the question is, do they not do it on purpose, because -- but I'm sure there was something wrong. And in September and October 2018, the European Commission and the Ministry of Industry agreed with the finance ministers, and they sent it to the European Commission on an action plan to actually get the money. And in January 2019, the European Commission wrote that it did not agree with the action plan and the correction set. They sent a letter to stop certification. So now the action plan is being dealt with with by the European Commission. And last week, the Commission sent us information that there would be another audit reportedly. So they're holding back our money. They're basically acting like they're acting. It can happen in Czech, yes, if we were to have the money already, the 17.6 billion, we could have it at home, and then the budget would look completely different. Although, of course, the expenses, the expenses, are considerably higher, because we really pumped the money into people. [[14.50 hours]] So I'm really glad that this is on the table. I think that we should look into this, and I think that the Treasury should definitely put all historical corrections on the table and on the government, that is, where you added money - to make people understand it, traditional democratic parties here - and it would be interesting to know where there was some responsibility everywhere, we don't know that either. Because today we only have the atmosphere that - allegedly - the Czech Republic will lose money. It's a lie. So I just repeat that I consider this to be a dubious audit, it is an attack on the Czech Republic, and I believe that our civil servants are so skilled as to protect taxpayers from these pointless ideas of the European Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u3	Thank you. Allow me to offer an apology. Mr Jan Bartošek apologizes throughout today's day for health reasons. There are a number of other priority rights under Section 67 of the Rules of Procedure. So now Minister Richard Brabec, Minister Havlíček will prepare himself. For your information, there are nine priority rights. We're still talking about the agenda. Then there are two or three applications for the agenda. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u4	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that when I flew through the preliminary and unsigned version of the audit report on Saturday morning, which somehow happened to appear in some media, I almost fell off my chair. And although I'm quite a calm person - and we've known each other for a while now, so maybe you can confirm it to me - I really pissed off. I stress that I will now not respond to the whole text, as many experts will carefully examine and comment on it in the coming weeks and months. And so is the right thing to do. It's a preliminary text. And I'm convinced from that first weekend reading that we're gonna find a lot more mistakes in the end. But let me stop at one claim that many journalists have already quoted widely, so it is not my response now to the audit report, albeit preliminary, but also to the speculations that have appeared in the media. Not to mention the fact that some journalists didn't even translate the text well from English, so they mistook the words "lasts" and "promote" but it doesn't matter at the moment. This claim is also well understood for the lay public, and it is also found in the part where it allegedly suggests a conflict of interest between Prime Minister Babiš. In layman's terms, I would translate it something like this - and so did some journalists: Brabec, as a former employee of the chemical industry, is supporting the chemical industry dominated by Agrofert. I believe that when I finish my brief speech, at least some of you, as I do, will incredibly ask what the person who wrote this text was actually going to say if he really wanted to know the truth and why you were unable or unwilling to verify the easily available data. In the beginning, I'm going to tell you a few numbers that, in my opinion, would have been enough to blow this whole completely senseless structure into atoms. From European funds, and please listen well, specifically from the programme of the Operational Programme Environment 2007 to 2013, I stress, in the Gesture of the Ministry of the Environment, i.e. before the entry of YES into Mr Babiš's policy to post - at that time - the Minister of Finance and my accession to the Minister of the Environment, which was in January 2014, so before this period, the applicants from Agrofert were registered, subsequently approved European Union subsidy support for more than 40 projects in the amount of approximately CZK 800 million. And it was under the ministers of Bursík - he was under the Green, Official Government, there were even four ministers born - Miko, Dusík, Šebesta, Bízková, then there were some ministers for the ODS - Drobil and Chalupa, and then there was Minister Podivínský in the administrative government; 800 million for these ministers. Two projects have been approved from the Environment 2014 to 2020 programme, the setting and conditions of which have already been prepared for my ministry, to companies from Agrofert holding - so compare: more than 40 and two - worth of subsidy support of CZK 86 million. Let me repeat the figures again: 800 million crowns, almost, before Babiš and Brabec for Agrofert and 86 million from the new operational programme 2014 to 2020. Isn't this a pretty clear argument about how I supposedly support the chemical industry and Agrofert? But if it's not enough, I have another firecracker for you. In 2014, - already under my direction - the key negotiations over the negotiation of the new form of the Operational Programme Environment 2014 to 2020 took place. The European Commission approved the new operational programme on 30 April 2015. From the previous programming period 2007 to 2013, during those ministers Bursík, Drobil, Chalupa and many others, subsidy support in the field of air protection mainly focused on the environmentalization of industry - and into the household or crown. Now, imagine that Brabec came from the chemical industry, and what did he, the villain, do? Since 2014, he and his team have made the European Commission believe that for the first time, most of the funds in the area of improving air quality have gone - where? Well, households, folks! Nine billion went to pot subsidies! So I took nine billion of the industry -- and before that, tens of billions went -- and I put them in households. Well, that's like an amazing piece of evidence of how I keep up with industry. I don't have to introduce the boilers. A very successful project, which I am really proud of and which is now considered by the same European Commission as a model case of good practice. It is recommended by Poland, Slovakia, Romania. And for all the other subjects that are thousands, including the environmentalization of the industry that the other ministers have spent tens of billions of crowns on, there are less than three billion left. So roughly from the 12 billion crowns that went in the Operational Programme Environment, in the priority axis number two, on the air, so that Brabec, the industrialist who is supporting the chemical industry, or industry in general, took out 9 billion crowns and gave them to a hundred thousand households! Maybe half a million people who have a new boiler that not only improves air quality, but saves money. That's a great piece of evidence of how I keep up with the chemical industry. And I'm asking - even if you have a lot of imagination, if I was put on the Ministry of Industry to meet industry and want to give some of these businesses such an awful advantage, can someone explain to me why I would do that right from the start? This is unimaginable! Now let me -- but we're still at the beginning, but don't worry, it'll be short. And I'm sorry about the emotion, but this accusation is just unheard of and unbelievable. Now, let me take a closer look - but it will be really short - through the text concerning the Ministry of the Environment and myself on page 20 and 21 of the audit report. I'm stressing that this is an unofficial English translation, because the official one will come in about a month. So I'll quote freely. In 2016, a transfer of funds of CZK 2 billion from the Operational Programme Transport to the Operational Programme Environment began to be discussed at the level of the ESIF Council, even though - according to the statement by the auditors or auditors - the Transport Programme was in better shape from the point of view of the exhaustion of funds than the Operational Programme Environment, and despite the fact that the Ministry of Transport did not agree to the transfer of funds. However, the arguments put forward were not answered and the transfer of funds between programmes was nevertheless approved by the European Council and the Government. Moreover, the transfer of funds from the Operational Programme Transport proposed to divide the MMR in proportion to 50 for air quality and sewerage, and the Minister of the Environment, as former manager of Agrofert-owned company, insisted on moving more money - 75 percent - into air quality at the expense of sewerage. Realization favored projects of the chemical industry dominated by Agrofert in the Czech Republic. [[15.00 hours]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, come take a look at the facts. So above all, there is absolutely no truth that OP Transport was in better condition than OP Environment in 2016. On the contrary, OP Transport had serious drawdown problems in 2016, and we have, of course, the evidence for this, and the Ministry of Regional Development has repeatedly not convinced that it can exhaust funds in the following years. If they had not been exhausted, they would have returned to Brussels in these years. The Ministry of Regional Development has repeatedly tried to get some specific projects from the Ministry of Transport to confirm and guarantee that the programme is exhausted. And that the representatives of OP Transport, as the auditor claims, were not enthusiastic about the transfer of funds? Well, for God's sakes, it's perfectly natural that no ministry will agree completely to the relocation of funds. But I must say - we have verified this - that Minister Took finally, of course, because the government decided to do so, approved the transfer of funds. And, of course, he's got the charts. Two. In view of the readiness of projects located in the tanks of the OP Environment project and the overall lack of resources in the programme caused by previous governments, because we had dramatically less money than in the previous period 2007 to 2013, we have actively announced - and this will not surprise you - that hundreds of specific projects will be implemented for them, the construction of water supply and sewerage in municipalities and projects in the area of improving air quality, namely in the field of greening of many businesses' operations, and I will get to that where demand was a significant overhang in the long term. I even received a letter from the President of the Transport Union, which I have at my disposal, of course. I even think, and we're going to find out that this was also dealt with by tripartite, which also called on me to move more money into the atmosphere. Thus, the proposal to move funds in proportion to 75 per cent of air and 25 per cent of sewerage was completely logical and legitimate and is based on an analysis of interests. And it's not a decision by the minister, folks, or a proposal. This was the decision of specific officials on the basis of a demand analysis. Because we had a large overhang, a hundred percent overhang, in terms of improving air quality and slightly smaller, about 50 percent, overhang demand in the area of sewer construction. But most importantly - I'm sure many of you know and I assumed that such simple and publicly available information would also be able to obtain an auditor, that the Czech Republic still has problems with air pollution, and since 2010 the European Commission has been leading proceedings with us for breach of the access agreement, so-called. Infringement, and is constantly logically asking us to support it with other and other measures that we are putting into the field of air protection. And since air quality is an absolute priority for us, of course, we are trying to get as much free resources as possible. But what is important, and obviously the auditor did not notice it either, or was unable to find it, after negotiations with the ESIF Board and even after negotiations with the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Environment agreed to use funds from OP Transport 50 to 50, i.e. 50 per cent for sewerage and 50 per cent for increasing air quality. But listen carefully. Even if the ratio was completely different, or 75 to 25, nothing has changed at all. Because all the projects were supported anyway, even those that were in the so-called a project magazine. More specifically, it was 67 projects, and the table is, of course, publicly available. First of all, it was a reduction in the emissions of heat plants, coke plants, ironworks and others. Now, please, folks. Neither the company's project belonging to Agrofert nor any part of the chemical industry, which, as the relevant auditor claims, is dominated by Agrofert, has been financed from the funds acquired by the Ministry of Environment by the transfer from OP Transport. [[with emphasis]] [[with emphasis]] Why wasn't he? Well, because there wasn't one. Was that so hard to trace this in the chart? The chart of the projects that the auditor had at his disposal? And even in the following years, any project submitted by Agrofert was not financed by the transfer of funds. Well, that's that. I suppose you don't blame me that, like, I believe, some of you lead me to the following questions: Why has the auditor not been able or willing to verify the facts available from public sources? Or why didn't he ask about them? How is it possible in the European Union's audit report to create unsubstantiated speculation that has damaged the environment, its employees and, of course, to personally accuse me of some kind of dark suspicion of haughtiness to anyone, even if it was the insistence of industry as a whole? It's based on philosophy: It doesn't matter that it didn't happen, that there's no evidence for it. On the contrary, the whole logic, if anyone had done a little work, is completely against the conclusion. And I believe I've given you some pretty crucial arguments as to why the logic goes against that conclusion. We simply specify the principle which does not apply and where we grow up. Wishful thinking. If it's used by the opposition, I'm not happy about it, but it's politics, and unfortunately, that's part of it. If it's used by the media, it's similar. But if something like this appears in the official, albeit preliminary, report by the European Union, I am in shock. And, yes, I am angry - and perhaps you understand that I want to defend myself, although I should probably keep the perspective that, as you know, I usually retain. And you know why I'm so upset? And I already told it downstairs at the press conference. Because this is far from just about me. Because it throws poisonous saliva at a lot of decent and high-quality people who work at the Ministry of the Environment and the State Fund today. People who managed to save tens of billions of crowns threatened by the miserable drawing of past management of the Ministry of Environment, especially from the time of ministers under the ODS. And by the way, as a deputy at the Ministry of Environment at that time, the current Member was also working for the ODS Vojtěch Munzar, although I must say correctly that he was not in charge of drawing European funds. But he was there at the time when he was so miserable. Because in this context - and I must remind you - we returned CZK 7.5 billion to Brussels in 2013, which we did not have precisely due to the miserable management system of the OP Environment. Do you know how much for CZK 7.5 billion would be sewerage, drought measures, or floods, how much we could put in the municipalities? And we, folks, put them back in Brussels because those incompetents before us weren't able to run the program properly. And in the years to come, we haven't returned a penny. Why? Because the people who are being attacked today and the audit are clearing out the pigsty. They cleared out and rescued tens of billions threatened from the European operational programme. That's why I'm upset. But I'm also concerned because, dear colleagues, I just have to keep asking myself what motivation could possibly be such a baseless and pointless accusation and why someone put it there, even in a preliminary audit report. And I don't like all the possible answers to the question that I'm thinking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u5	Thank you. Another priority right, Minister Havlíček, then Minister Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to recapitulate the situation that is taking place at the Ministry of Industry and Trade under the so-called 'Industrial and Trade'. a preliminary proposal. I think there are some important things that I think need to be emphasized and that we need to think about them at least. I'll describe what happened in those last hours, virtually. In the last two or three days. First of all, I note that the preliminary proposals that come from the European Commission are not entirely extraordinary. There's a lot of them. They go to significantly larger amounts, they sometimes go to smaller amounts, and it is, say, a standard process where officials from the Ministry of Industry, I note without the influence of the Minister, it is without government influence - it is a governing body - they express and to some extent either oppose, contradict, or simply agree with similar preliminary proposals. [[15.10 hours]] However, this time it went very unstandardly, for the reason that the report, which is as always so-called confidential, means a message that is confidential, came into virtually all the media on Friday, passed around all the social networks. However, at that time neither the managing authority nor the relevant workers had it. This means that we were under some pressure when journalists immediately started calling us, which is probably quite understandable for us to comment on this report, which we really could not, because if something is confidential, I cannot comment on it, nor can officials. On the other hand, everyone saw that the report was just pretty much everywhere. It is also worth noting that one server the same day before the officials had the opportunity to see and see it, he already wrote about them that they would be driven to criminal responsibility. I'm pointing out that it's one of those servers we all know, it's the attack server for practically everything the government does. That means those people were in such a situation that without having anything in their hands without knowing what was official and what wasn't official, it was already bowing down who would go to jail in quotes or go to jail. So it was considered that during the weekend, the first analysis of this English to English report was done, and the first insight was done at a speed. And let me say at least in a hurry what happened after the first insights on, I say repeatedly, the preliminary report has taken place. First of all, this concerns the years 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017. It was years ago when my colleagues Mládek and colleague Jiří Havlíček were at the Ministry of Industry, however responsible I am today. It was definitely the coalition government, but it wasn't the people who would somehow be in Agrofert's fan club. That means they were people who couldn't even have any major influence on it. I mean, it was obvious that there could be no so-called positive influence on those who worked projects at some professional level, not to mention independent evaluators. The first so-called error is that it was a conflict of interest. Here I point out, and it is very important here to say that it was 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, at a time when the only interpretation that our officials, who could have been accused of, even of going to prison, was the interpretation of Czech law and, of course, it was not available anywhere. They requested it through the Ministry of Regional Development, which requested it from the Ministry of Justice and the result is that the expert group reached a clear conclusion, which is written, and that is that everything is in line. In other words, the official, who, whether he could or could not, wanted or did not want to have any view of the matter, followed clearly Czech law and the Czech law clearly stated that he acted completely in harmony. This means that it is not possible to blame him today because another right at the time was not that there was some lack of a conflict of interest. Let's look at the next one - and obviously I can't even say the company names here right now, I can't go into too much detail here, but on the other hand, if someone is speculating that everything is wrong today, it's understandable that I have to defend our officials and, of course, not just our officials, but our companies. Because if we were to judge individual projects with this interpretation, it is not even an attack on officials, as it is not in itself good, who are trying to do the job responsibly and honestly, but obviously it is an attack on every other applicant, because by this subway, if we should continue to measure or evaluate it, we will lose tens of billions of crowns in our economy. What else happened there? One fatal error - simply and simply is a project, and within this project it has been done, and here let me have a little detail, but it is necessary to say it because it illustrates the whole situation - that the company in question cannot draw or must return resources, because it was under emission allowances in the so-called regime. That's pretty important news. And yes, if that's the case, he really can't, that's the truth. The problem was that the company and the product weren't. It happens that someone misses it, there is nothing extraordinary about it, simply an audit authority official did not notice that the company is under emission allowances, but the project, which it concerns, was not only not under emission allowances, but was not an incinerator, but it was a project that, on the contrary, modernised and behaved precisely the other way around with regard to the environment. This can happen, I don't even blame it, if it was a bad intention or not, I'm just trying to illustrate that even though there's a proven preliminary proposal, it doesn't mean everything's okay. And once again, I'm just showing that the normal process would be that the officials who read this will oppose it, send it to the audit authority within two months, and the audit authority will most likely decide that there really was some oversight. It's not an extraordinary process, it's just a normal process. Another important thing is the question of certain interpretations. To put it simply, if we want to catch someone, we always turn to innovation. Innovations are a very sensitive topic for all OP PIK Structural Funds, because tens of billions of crowns are thus redistributed within the priority axis that is aimed at this. I don't want to go into the essential details here, I just want to make a little comment about what's going on in the current media, that if there's a product, and that product is somewhere identical, it's not innovation. Well, that's about the same as saying there's a car somewhere and I'm developing another car, and that car doesn't fall under the innovation regime. We all feel intuitively that the car has some properties. And that's exactly what this project was about. That means it's how the car gets here, if it's 500 km, or 1000 km, what design it has and so on. And that was exactly the innovation in this particular product. That's not what I'm saying, that's not what our officials say, that's what independent experts say. And now there can be a debate, I'll take it with the audit authority, if that's how he feels about it, if he doesn't see it that way. And that innovation is always very speculative, very debatable, and once again it has to be clarified in some way, and it usually ends in the way that if the audit authority recognizes it this way again, then the Czech companies are judged. That's just a pragmatic way of saying it. We can go into even more detail. And I don't want to downplay everything here right now and say that the audit authority has made mistakes about everything. All I'm saying is that if we're talking about the little things of character where the audit authority writes and accuses the clerk of my department that it wasn't a random selection of evaluators, and we have proof that the evaluators were drawn, I don't know what more random selection of evaluators than a classic lottery ticket. On this detail, I'm just showing again that not everyone can be right about the first shot. Here we are even convinced that most of the complaints that are, are without a problem, argumentable and can be built on them from our point of view by a very serious opponent and very serious decomposition. This will, of course, take several months. Why am I saying all this? I'm saying this because we're doing an account without an innkeeper without having anything translated into another language without even getting a slightest look at it from the other side. We condemn everyone, condemn officials, set an example for all our other companies, so that they do nothing of the sort, if possible, because who has ever done innovation and read in the newspapers that they will not recognize innovation because it is a product that is already someone else's, even he himself, although he does not look at the properties of this product, so logically he will not go into this program at all. All I'm saying is that for relatively common things that happen over the course of the year, I don't say tens, but four or five of these audits just go through. So every two months it can be documented that it is simply a marketing ban, it is a purely purposeful discussion and communication. And I recommend one thing, and don't take it really politically at this point: I recommend that everything be properly read, everything properly argued, waited for a feedback, and the moment that the reaction will be, then we can make some preliminary conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u7	Thank you. Minister Schillerová has the floor, then Minister Dostálová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the fifth day, we have been discussing the details of the report that is preliminary. We speculate on its content, though it should be confidential at this stage. We're drawing conclusions, we're inventing scenarios. I have heard legal interpretations that do not have the value of a second-grade primary school student's report in the subject of the basics of social sciences. The reasons why, at least mostly, the draft audit reports of the European Commission should be referred to as preliminary, are quite clear. The Czech Republic is normally given many audits to settle, only in recent years they were tens. If anyone believes that the proposals for these audits and their final wording after comments and explanations from competent authorities are identical, it is a big mistake and does not know anything about this issue. [[15.20 hours]] Why should these preliminary audit reports remain non-public? Why does the report begin with a warning that it should be considered confidential until the process is closed and the final findings are issued? Why is the European Commission not expressing itself and repeatedly declaring that it will not comment on the report despite the undoubtedly intense insistence of the Czech media? We will probably not suspect the European Commission of wanting to cover the Czech Prime Minister with this silence. I think we agree with the opposition. The real reason is obvious. The worst that can happen, what can disrupt an impartial and independent audit, is political pressure and media pressure, misinformation, misinterpretation, prejudice, in short, all that we are witnessing on the fifth day. The system of European subsidies in the Czech Republic is not based on political will and political decision on their allocation or not, but on a system of clearly descriptive legal ties, control mechanisms and clearly defined competences. These competences belong to professionals, government officials, have been set up - and now beware - in close coordination with European institutions and European institutions is also continuously supervised. Audit procedures shall be carried out strictly in accordance with the Regulation laying down general provisions No 1303/2013 within the time limits laid down in this Regulation and, where appropriate, in the context of the relevant practices and shall be carried out by the relevant departments in substance. These departments are the audited person. Moreover, state officials included in the response process are currently bound by the provisions of Act No. 234/2004 Coll., on the Civil Service, in particular the obligations of civil servants as defined in Section 77 and the Staff Regulations of Deputy Minister of the Interior for the Civil Service No. 13 of 2015 laying down rules on the ethics of civil servants. To put into reality the considerations that are mentioned here that perhaps the Czech Republic's comments on the draft audit report should be written by one or the minister, depending on his political affiliation, would be nothing more than an unacceptable political interference that would lead to damage to the Czech Republic. Moreover, I do not know how anyone who has not been audited could respond to individual findings of auditors. In this context, it should be recalled that the opinion on the draft audit report to the European Commission will be shared primarily by individual providers, namely the managing authorities of specific programmes, which alone have the competence to do so. If you are going to anticipate what conclusions the final version of this report will contain, or want to know the steps taken by the competent authorities on their basis, you are, in my view, on a thin ice. And I believe that this is definitely not in the interests of the Czech Republic. Personally, I have no reason to doubt that the relevant officials will proceed professionally, impartially and in accordance with the best of their knowledge and consciences. And if the incompetence of any expenditure is confirmed, the Czech Republic has tools to recover it from the beneficiary, if the legal prerequisites for this are met, whether it is a withdrawal procedure or a tax procedure before the Financial Administration authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as you really are concerned about the fiscal interests of the Czech Republic, I call on you to allow the proper completion of the audit process, to stop questioning the work of independent expert teams and to await the results. I would like to stress that the deadline for the Czech Republic's statement has not even started at this time, as the delivery of the audit report in the Czech language is at that moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u9	Thank you. Minister Dostálová has the floor, then President Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am really a little scared of the media environment, but also of the comments of some fellow Members, and it leads me to conclude that it is not really known how the whole process of preparing and implementing the programming period works in the Czech Republic. So if someone is jumping to conclusions without knowing all these processes, it is really misleading. So let me just give you a little field trip, a little introduction to how it works with us. It is also fair to the public so that she can draw some conclusions herself if she gets to such media outputs as the leaked preliminary audit, and, of course, they should know what they're reading about. As regards the negotiation and approval of programmes and the methodological process itself, the process of preparing programmes has taken place since the beginning simultaneously at the level of the European Union and at national level. The preparation and negotiation of the Partnership Agreement by the Government resolution was entrusted to the National Coordination Authority, as well as to the preparation of future programming periods. The programming period started in 2014 and ends in 2020. The new programming period will then start in 2021 and end in 2027. This process, which means before 2014, began to prepare informal programming documents and informal negotiations with the European Commission first. Then formal negotiations began with the European Commission, when the Partnership Agreement was first approved in April 2014 and then all operational programmes were approved by the Government of the Czech Republic during June 2014. At the same time, the preparation of the methodological environment began when the concept of a uniform methodological environment was first approved, which represented a document which identified the basic strategy for the preparation of the methodological environment for the implementation of programmes and the provision of support from European Structural and Investment Funds for the programming period 2014 to 2020. Individual methodological guidelines and methodological recommendations were then approved in individual packages, which set rules for ensuring proper and effective implementation of programmes in the programming period 2014 to 2020. The rules are laid down both by legislation and methodical documents and are transferred by the managing authorities to their management documentation, i.e. the operational manual, which constitutes the basic framework of the management body's procedure, as well as the guidance manual for applicants and beneficiaries, which sets out the basic rules for implementation from the level of applicants and beneficiaries. The competence and responsibilities of the managing authorities are due to the so-called European General Regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council, if you want to write down a number, it is 1303/2013, issued 17. 12. 2013. If the public is constantly hearing structures in the media, the managing authority probably doesn't know how many operational programmes we actually have with the structure of the managing authorities. Okay, here we go: Operational Programme Enterprise, Innovation, Competitiveness, whose managing authority is at the Ministry of Industry and Trade; Operational programme Research, development and education, the managing authority is at the Ministry of Education; Employment Operational Programme, Managing Authority at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs; Operational Programme Transport, Managing Authority at the Ministry of Transport; Operational Programme Environment, Managing Authority at the Ministry of Environment; Integrated regional operational programme, managing body at the Ministry of Regional Development; Operational programme Prague - pole of growth, managing body Prague City Hall; Operational Programme Technical Assistance, Managing Authority Ministry of Regional Development; Operational Programme Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Programme, Ministry of Agriculture. Here you can see for yourself that there are a lot of operational programmes, and therefore the role of the National Coordination Authority has been determined, so that, of course, the management bodies are coordinated with the methodological environment. [[15.30 hours]] As regards the process and selection of projects, the aim is to select transparent quality projects that will meet the objectives of the programme based on the results of project evaluations. The managing authority shall declare a call for supported activity and following the submission of the project, the evaluation and selection process of the projects shall be carried out. The process of approval itself must be clearly described in the programme's management documentation, including the definition of deadlines, roles and powers of the persons providing the activities. Nothing's anonymous. The managing authority shall develop a methodology for the evaluation and selection of projects and criteria for the evaluation of projects on the basis of which the quality of the projects and their contribution to the objective of the programme will be assessed. The criteria must be comprehensible, evaluated, the effectiveness, need, efficiency, cost-effectiveness and feasibility of the project must be verified through the criteria. Those criteria and methodology shall be approved by the Monitoring Committee. The monitoring committee shall be composed of representatives of the managing authority, representatives of applicants, partners, non-profit organisations, the national coordination authority and the European Commission and subsequently published on the programme's website, of course. So everything is transparent. As part of the methodology, the managing authority must determine who will provide the evaluation criteria at each stage of the evaluation and selection of the projects, whether internal or external experts in the area will be used, or collective bodies can also be selected, i.e. evaluation and selection committee. All evaluators and committee members shall sign a solemn declaration of independence, impartiality, bias and ethics before the start of the evaluation. As part of the evaluation, the four-eye rule is always respected, which means that two independent persons are always involved in the evaluation. The condition for the selection of projects is the fulfilment of the specified conditions and the available funds for the activity. Following the adoption of legal acts, the implementation of the project, including reimbursement and billing of eligible expenditure of the projects, shall be followed by requests for payment by beneficiaries where the managing authority checks whether the beneficiary's claims are justified. The managing authority, with the exception of the Rural Development Programme, which is managed under the common agricultural policy through the paying agency, whose role is played by the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, the other managing authorities after payment and the payment claim are submitted by projects with funds in the so-called aggregate applications for payment and certification bodies which subsequently certify such funds. The certification of expenditure shall be carried out before each application for interim payment for the programme is sent to the European Commission. A request for interim payment shall be sent to the European Commission after the certification has been carried out. The European Commission subsequently cashes it into the account of the Ministry of Finance. During the whole process, the required expenditure may be corrected, whether by the managing authority, the payment and certification authority during certification and, at the end, correction by the European Commission is possible. As far as the audit itself is concerned, what will actually follow. Indeed, the audit process is nothing unique in which the Czech Republic would have no experience. This is done by sending a letter containing a draft audit report to the Permanent Representation of the Czech Republic to the European Union. The English version is sent first. Subsequently, a letter is sent to the state representative in Brussels with a draft audit report in the Czech language, where the deadline for the Member State to express itself is specified. The deadline for sending a reply is usually two months after delivery of the Czech version. In the case of this proposal, there is no time limit yet. This is a preliminary proposal sent by the European Commission. However, I must say, and I would like to draw attention here to the very non-standard procedure in this case by the European Commission. The draft report was delivered to the Permanent Representation only in paper form, not electronically. That's never happened before, which, of course, the electrical version is common practice. Permanent representation scanned this paper form and sent it to the Czech Republic using the system. The report is not signed by anyone, at the moment we do not even know who was involved in the processing of the report. The addressees shall also not be indicated. This is really a very special way of communicating and I hope that this is indeed the first and last renonc on the part of the European Commission. The National Coordination Authority will subsequently draw up a timetable for the preparation of the Czech Republic's response and, in cooperation with the other authorities concerned, prepare a response to the draft audit report. Once the response is completed, it will be sent to the state representative in Brussels, who will transmit it diplomatically to the European Commission. The European Commission will then draw up a final audit report in which the reactions of the Czech party should be taken into account. The final audit report is crucial for the national coordination authority in terms of assessing the impact of individual findings. There is no exception - and I underline here - that the auditors of the European Commission will adjust the text of the report on the basis of the comments sent. I would also like to point out some things here that, of course, as far as the content of the report is concerned, I really stress that according to the information provided by the National Coordination Authority, all the procedures set out and the methodological arrangements for providing subsidies to the Czech Republic are in line with all the legal requirements. I stress that methodological regulation cannot regulate obligations beyond or tighten them up. The actual control of the granting of subsidies is within the scope of the management bodies of the individual operational programmes. The Ministry of Regional Development or the National Coordination Authority is not an authority that exercises control over the granting of subsidies by the managing authorities. The audit shall be carried out in particular by the managing authorities themselves, the audit authority, the European Commission and, where appropriate, the European Court of Auditors. In this context, I believe that there has been no doubt about the credibility of setting up the system of the Czech Republic. I would also like to say that the programmes underwent so-called "programming" during this programming period. by auditing the design, or by auditing the conformity, and this means that the European Commission has also carried out individual reaudits of these audits. Since the beginning of the period, further audits have been carried out by the European Commission, which, among other things, also audit the evaluation process and selection of projects. In none - I repeat in none - of the audits that have been carried out so far, the European Commission did not identify errors in the set-up of the grant process. As regards the old programming period 2007 to 2013, the Czech Republic again passed so called. by auditing conformity, or by auditing design, and by a large number of audits again without such findings. In addition, the so-called 2011 was introduced. the action plan by the European Commission, because it has already been said that we have had problems with some of the programmes of that time, that is, 2011, 2012 especially for transport, which has introduced stricter conditions for the Czech Republic than in other EU countries. One of the measures put in place was, for example, control sheets which were subject to the approval of the European Commission itself. If you don't mind, I must say, on the basis of information from the media, of course, what I read in the media that some of the proposals for this report are really inaccurate, misleading and, unfortunately, sometimes false claims. Let me give you just a few examples for the idea. The draft report, for example, states that the conclusions of the Council on the European and Structural Funds are subsequently met by individual ministers. That's nonsense. That's just not true, because counsel can't impose anything on anyone. The Council is an advisory body of the Government. Furthermore, of course, the question is whether, as defined by the conflict of interest law, this proposal actually calls for an improvement in the management and control system in terms of preventing conflicts of interest. However, there is no indication of what such systemic improvement should be. [[15.40 hours]] And now let me just give you a little bit of controversy so that we all realize the absurdity of this whole proposal. The conflict of interest law is clear on the Czech side in terms of the definition of public office, while the European Union's financial regulation is very vague and contains a sentence that - in quotation marks - all persons involved in the implementation of cohesion policy should prevent conflicts of interest. This is a very vague formulation in which everyone - in quotation marks - can fit, for example, an official of the managing authority, who lives in a panel, in a heated house from EU funds. Acknowledge for yourself that this is, of course, very absurd and that it deserves the European Commission to actually come up with an interpretation of terms and clearly specify these parts in the area of implementation and conflict of interests. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that much of the claims contained in the draft report will be explained by the auditors of the European Commission. I've tried to illustrate some examples here. I've been trying to illustrate the whole process as it goes. Everything is, of course, published on the EU subsidy web portal. And I'll allow everyone, especially the media, to ask us to let the officials work, it's their standard procedure. I believe that all these things around this audit report will be explained in favour of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u11	Thank you, Minister for Regional Development. Good afternoon, honourable Members. We'll continue with the draft agenda. Now with priority rights, President Ivan Bartoš. A colleague of Okamura will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, Mr President. I would really like to speak on the draft agenda for this meeting. I would like to propose one point at which ministers have probably already come forward. This point was discussed on the Gremium this morning. It is a point based on our Friday meeting of representatives of political parties and parliamentary clubs in the House, where were Pirates, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09. Through the club presidents, the ČSSD and the communists participated. There were representatives of STAN. I think we should open up a debate where individual Members can also speak. Do not use the time that is intended for the agenda of the meeting. So I would like to propose as the first item of the meeting a point called the Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the preliminary draft audit of the European Commission. It is also the name of the point on which there is agreement between the opposition parties in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u13	Okay, thank you. And now Vice-President Tomio Okamura, also on the agenda. A colleague of Kalousek will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u14	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The SPD movement proposes a point entitled The discussion of the risk of possible financial losses from the Czech Republic in connection with the preliminary report by the European Commission on the investigation of conflicts of interest of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. I propose that he be placed as the first item at the Chamber of Deputies meeting today. At the same time, in this context, we will propose a resolution in the wording, which the House will, of course, decide by voting, if the item goes through: "The House of Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development in connection with the preliminary report by the European Commission on the investigation of conflicts of interests of the Prime Minister to consistently defend the interests of the Czech Republic. In the event of financial damage caused by the Czech Republic by violating Czech laws, we ask for the liability of the culprits." At the same time, I would also like to propose, on behalf of the SPD, a second item entitled The Discussing of a Reiteral Physical Attack on a Member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, Ladislav Jakl. And if we were to get away with this point, I would ask that it be included as the second point today after the first point that I have already mentioned here. Within this point, we would have proposed essentially without any long discussion of a one-year resolution. "The House of Parliament of the Czech Republic considers similar attacks to be an unacceptable threat to democracy and freedom in the Czech Republic." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u15	I thank Vice-President Okamur. I ask all the plaintiffs to give me the exact text of that point, as they call it, so that I can replicate it precisely in the vote. Now, President Kalousek. Mr. Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I originally thought that, on the item of the draft agenda, the proposals on the agenda would really just fall. Since the Ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic have spoken with a rather broad interpretation of what has not yet been approved, and I fear that it might not be approved either, so forgive me for using my preferential right to respond to the words of two of them, namely the Minister of Finance, Vice-President of the Government of Mrs Schillerová, and the Prime Minister. The secretary of finance here told us that this must be a strictly expert trial. That it will be followed entirely by law and that politicians must not interfere. It has its procedural time limits, it has its order, which I completely agree with. But then, Madam Secretary, how should we explain the authoritarian statement of the Prime Minister, who said on Sunday that the Czech government would reject the preliminary draft audit? So are politicians interfering, or aren't politicians interfering? And then, after the Prime Minister's speech, the individual members of the government, whose authorities will be processing comments on the preliminary audit proposal, are saying what nonsense it is, what a lie it is, what a crucifixion it is, and that the experts will now process it. Ladies and gentlemen, my professional CV contains eight years of civil servant work and twenty-one years of parliamentary policy. So I know how officials behave when their ministers have these authoritarian public statements. Not that politicians can't interfere - you've already intervened! You have intervened in this with your clear statements, you, Prime Minister, you, Madam Secretary of Finance, you, Vice-President of the Government of Havlíček. You're the officials, you don't even have to tell them in your offices! You sent it to them through the media and from this pitch. How he must write that opposing statement, or woe to them! And of course those officials are just acting like one. That's pretty normal, and it's hard to blame them, and it's like that all over the world. You did the pressure on the state administration! You, as people who have them in your naming power, who write them rewards and who can or may not initiate disciplinary proceedings against them. You were blackmailing them through this rhetorical site where you were performing now! And then you want to make completely cynical public fools and say that the government is independent. Well, I mean, it's not! It's not. It's because you're performing the way you're performing. Because you keep them from being independent. And that's why I repeat again. I'd appreciate the party, Madam Secretary, if only those ladies could talk to me. [[Two members of the ANO movement]] I'd really appreciate the Minister if she could explain to us the contradiction in her statements and statements of the Prime Minister when the Minister... when the ladies talk in front of me... Of course I'll wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u17	I, Mr President, will certainly be happy to give you peace of mind for your speeches, but I think that my colleagues can certainly transfer their debates to the frontstage, like all the others who are not following the debate on the agenda of our meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u18	Third time, if the ladies have already spoken to me. I would very much like to ask the Minister to explain to us the contradiction in her observations, when she stressed how purely expert and without political influence it is. He's been saying that all Friday, all Saturday. And on Sunday the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic will perform and say: It is all nonsense and the Czech government will reject it. He probably already had that expert opinion at his disposal. Otherwise, we did not have to wait for the monthly translation or for the two-month expert report of our officials, which according to the procedural deadlines of the Czech institution is available. Do you realize the contradictions in your statements? Do you realize how cynically you try to make fools of the Czech public? I'm just pointing out the contradictions in your own statements! That's all I'm doing right now. I would very much care for that explanation, although I believe there is no reasonably intelligent one. [[15.50 hours]] Madam Secretary, you also said that you remember as a minister who answers to the national certification body that it is quite common that the preliminary proposal differs from the final decision of the European Commission. That, of course, is true. We remember a lot of cases like this. It happened that the auditors proposed 25% correction and the Czech government through...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u19	I would ask my colleagues in front of me to hold discussions in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u20	Thank you. That is, of course, true, we know many such cases. It happened that the preliminary proposal of the auditors of the European Commission proposed 25% correction and the Czech state administration through the certification body managed to agree on 15% correction. It happened that some partial cases were able to agree that they were not affected. But when you spoke of your experience, Madam Secretary, about your experience of the Minister of Finance, let me also talk about my experience of six years of the Minister of Finance, during which I was also allowed to be President of the Council of European Union Finance Ministers, when I had never experienced any Member State of the European Union being able to reverse the proposal of the audit authority to a 100% correction. I just don't know a case like that, if you do, get me out of this mess. And I certainly consider it completely excluded that this could be reversed in the findings that this preliminary proposal contains, which we can discuss, which we can comment on, but which just happened. Now I'm gonna take a heretic sentence. However I claim that I consider it appropriate that the comments be guaranteed by a member of the government who is not a member of the ANO movement, whose chairman is the one who has the conflict of interest, I will express my conviction that it does not matter in terms of the final outcome. Even if the comments were written by Agrofert's lawyers, they might actually write them, and anyone signed them, so when the comments arrive at the European Commission, European auditors will re-examine them and assess them again. And unlike most members of the government, they are not subject to Agrofert, and they will judge it by law. Under Czech law and under European law. The Prime Minister here was indignant: What the European Union dares to interpret Czech law! Well, she dares because it's her money. She has never interpreted Czech law when it came to our national resources, but if we even violate our own regulations when drawing European money, it is a lot of it, because it is European taxpayers' money, hence ours. And since the auditors of the European Commission and the legal service of the European Commission will judge this by law, not by the way Babiš and Agrofert imagine it, there is simply no doubt as to how the final process will end, and you, Madam Secretary, know it. You've even worked for years as my subordinate to the Financial Administration. You have worked in the Financial Administration, you know well what is a violation of budgetary discipline, you know well what is also fraud and a violation of the European Union's financial interests, you are well aware of that. And you know there's no escape from this report. You know how it's gonna turn out. You can play for a few more months, so maybe by November, by December, but you know that the final decision of the European Commission could be 280 million, it could be 400 million, it could be 950 million, I don't want to argue about that money right now. [[Highly:]] But you just know that it can't end without losing the flower, that it will end with a statement that your Prime Minister is in conflict of interest and that Czech taxpayers... when the gentlemen have arranged before me... [[He's waiting.]] And that Czech taxpayers will simply pay hard for the conflict of interest and the greed of their Prime Minister. You just know that, even if you say no a thousand times. To that extent, I know your expertise. And now you're just playing for time. And so you know you're left with nothing but the enforcement, because then you'd only be playing for your own crime. I'm kind of wondering what you think is gonna happen in that time, Madam Secretary. I'd appreciate it if you could answer that. And so I'm turning to the other member of the government, the Prime Minister, who said there was nothing going on here, how we weren't going to go back, how it was all a lie and campaign. Prime Minister through Mr President - perhaps you are not here. You know that, too, as your secretary of finance. If I've ever suspected you of anything, it's that you have a good legal service, a good legal advisor. You know it can't be any other way. And yet you resist, yet you play for time and take the whole republic, all its citizens as your hostages. Now, I'm going to beg you, I'm authorized to do this through TOP 09, but I believe I'm speaking through a whole bunch of other people, so don't take the Republic hostage. We won't be able to undo the material damage. They just happened, the decision will be made, we'll have to pay them, and I sure hope we can get them back from Agrofert, too. But we're not gonna undo the intangible damage. Each day, when a proven robber of European money heads the government of the Czech Republic, the disgrace of the Czech Republic, all its citizens in front of the public, decreases the seriousness of the Czech Republic in front of the public. [[Laughs from Members YES]] There's no way out of this, I can guarantee that based on my 30-year experience. The decision will be made and the Czech Republic will pay. But every day, the time limit you will extend increases the material damage to the Czech Republic, and I appeal to you not to raise them. The only way to end the increase in the damage is if you just stop being Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and there is no conflict of interest. There's no other way. I want to believe that if you don't like the Czech Republic, that you like at least a few people who live in the Czech Republic, and they will all pay for your recklessness, they will all pay for your self-centeredness. And I want to ask you not to take that Republic hostage, because every day, when you will continue to lead the government and we will put the shame on ourselves that our Prime Minister is the European Union's money robber, so every day we increase the shame and reduce the seriousness of the Czech Republic in the European Union. This responsibility, Prime Minister, is borne next to you by all the members of the ANO movement, which I am also willing to turn to, all the members of social democracy who still believe in the coalition project, but not with the Prime Minister, who is at the end of the process at which the decision on his conflict of interest and damage will be counted to the Czech Republic and to all others who want to support this Prime Minister. It is about the honour of the Czech Republic and how long you want to prolong the shame. Ladies and gentlemen, it's on each and every one of you's conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u21	My colleague Kalousek didn't suggest a point. He took advantage of his priority rights. Now with priority right to the Marek Výborný agenda, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u22	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I have been here for an hour and three quarters in vain, wondering how the litany from the government ministers and the Prime Minister's mouth is related to what is at the beginning of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and that is the discussion on the agenda. I had no idea that even a seasoned matador like my colleague Kalousek would fall for it. I will therefore return to what really belongs here, and I would like to ask the House to include a new item at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a point which is called the method of financing social services in the Czech Republic in 2019. This is consistent with the very spirit of the resolution approved by this House last Wednesday, and please place this item on Friday this week as the first item in the 9.00 meeting. I expect the information to come from the mouth of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Finance, as stated in the resolution, so that we can move very quickly away from this matter in order to calm the public in the context of the financing of social services and to be able to really focus on the programme, as is the case at the meeting on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u23	I thank Mr Výborný and we will continue with the proposals on the agenda, by expressing Mr Václav Klaus, then Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u24	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I will come forward with a proposal on the agenda, and that is to say, I propose a point called "Bread and Bread Lines and what the subsidies arise from" on Friday 7 June as the first point after the fixed points. My position, or our position on this subsidy case, is somewhat different from that of both sides. Riches arise from work, not from subsidies and benefits. Half the House here is angry that Babiš's bakery had, or she got a hundred million crowns on the toast bread line. But if another businessman got it, would that be okay? It's not okay in either case. Grants are evil, subsidies are corruption, subsidies are created by taking money and taxes from hardworking people. The same applies to European subsidies, only to them can you get a European audit, but the government's majority cannot be surprised. You are a pro-European government, so you have a European audit. We really live in a country where one entrepreneur gets 60 million for his hotel and the other one doesn't, and now they're supposed to compete. We live in a country where one company receives an investment incentive and the other Czech company is sucked out by all employees. We subsidize bread in production, on the production line, and then for about a third of consumers, many of which could work. This perpetuum mobile really can't work for long. We do not support the government, and I speak for most of the non-attached Members, because the ANO movement and Andrej Babiš are doing a social democratic policy that people do not want, and that is what they repeatedly say in the elections. This is a subsidy policy - and I will translate it as a sustenance policy. So I challenge you, let's talk about how to return the Republic from subsidies to work on Friday, because it's normal to work and not draw. How to return the country to people who work, pay taxes and raise children, and how to cut subsidies from public space. This will contribute to the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u25	Thank you for the suggestion. And now, Mrs Pekarová, Adamová, too, on the agenda for the meeting. Marian Jurečka will be ready. Madam, just a moment. He apologizes between 15.45 and 19.00 for working reasons, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u26	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to ask you for a new point. This time, it does not concern the subject which is currently the most discussed, but also the support, so that we can actually implement our resolution, which we have approved here at an emergency meeting on the financing of social services. It is resolution 643 of the last meeting which took place here on 30 May last week, and as one of the parts that has been adopted, is also part number 7 and, in particular, point three, that the Chamber of Deputies asks through the Government of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on Tuesday 4. 6., this is today, she informed the Chamber of Deputies about the date on which she would send the necessary funds to cover the financing of social services in 2019. So that point would be very simple. I don't think it should be long at all and we shouldn't spend too much time with him, because it's really supposed to be relatively simple information. I'd like to call a point. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs' response to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the financing of social services. That's the name of the point. I would like to place it as a second fixed point today, so that it does not disturb the debate that is already being held here in the House, and I believe that the Minister, whom I do not see here, is seeing her again, because I have noted that she has given the information at the press conference, so it is good that we should implement the resolution and we have the opportunity to hear this information right here in plenary, as the resolution that we have largely approved assumes. Therefore, please support this point so that we can see how it will be with the financing of social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u27	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Mr Marian Jurečka and then Mr President of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek on the agenda. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u28	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to propose a new point at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which would respond to a situation that has also flashed in the media in recent days, namely that a law is being prepared in Russia as part of the negotiations of the Russian Duma, which would formalise and legitimise the entry of USSR troops into Czechoslovakia in 1968. This view will become an official interpretation, which will be freshly supported by the law of the Russian Federation. Because the Russian Duma parliamentary factions agreed on a bill that will grant soldiers who participated in the occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1968 the status of veterans of the armed forces. In addition to the social benefits for these members of the occupying army, the law also speaks - and this is important, I quote here - about the legitimate entry of the legally invited USSR army in the territory of the Czechoslovak Republic in August 1968. I think that, even in view of the fact that we were here last year on the anniversary of the 50-year occupation of the Warsaw Treaty army and the subsequent temporary stay of the Soviet Union armies adopted a resolution in which we clearly say that the Chamber of Deputies declared that the invasion of the five States of the Warsaw Treaty in August 1968 into Czechoslovakia was an act of invasion and subsequent occupation and was contrary to international law - this is what we said in our resolution, in which 145 of the 156 Members present voted for this motion for a resolution - and, above all, out of respect for the victims of August 1968, but also of subsequent years, when the armies of the Soviet Union, in particular, were temporarily on our territory, we should not be silent about how the Russian Duma wanted to report on these matters at the level of law. I think the Chamber of Deputies should comment on this. [[16.10 hours]] Therefore, I propose directly a point bearing the name Statement of opposition to the process of the Russian Duma, which wants to legitimize the entry of the USSR army into the territory of Czechoslovakia in August 1968. I would also like to propose in this regard a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies rejects such a move of legitimisation and calls on representatives of the Czech Republic, the Prime Minister and the President - the Foreign Minister, as the only representative, has said that he does not agree - to reject such a step. Thank you for supporting this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u29	I thank Mr Jurečka. Since these were all applications that could have been discussed on the agenda, now Jaroslav Faltýnek with priority rights. [[Messenger. Falty speaking off the microphone.]] I've got five marks on this place. 6th as the first point in the afternoon. Jaroslav Faltýnek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon. I would like to raise the counter-proposal on the agenda of the meeting on the proposal made by President Výborný, I do not remember exactly the text, but it was the financing of social services - information. And my counterproposal is basically the same as the one I said this morning on the grémium. Yes, let's talk about it, but Friday afternoon and I'm making a compromise proposal on Friday at 1:30. Friday at 1:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u31	I add that this is a counterproposal for a proposal that was tabled within half an hour of the opening of the meeting, so it is possible to vote on it. Unless no one signs up for the agenda... or with priority rights, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček reporting. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u32	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, before we vote on proposals to amend the agenda, allow me a few words for social democracy. I will be brief and I will not abuse priority rights, but I presume the House deserves to know the position of our MP. I will comment on two points, I will not speak on all proposals, but I consider it important to comment on two. The first is the Government's information on the procedure for examining or addressing the preliminary audit report. I believe that the Chamber of Deputies deserves that information. As much as I could get acquainted with this document that wasn't actually officially published - I have the information from the media, but I suppose, and through our diplomatic service, we have verified that the document is real - so however I may consider its content to be serious, however I may consider certain wordings to be conditional, because there is a lot of talk about maybe, it seems, and so on, and however I consider it to be a preliminary report, I do not want to evaluate it. What the House deserves is to be assured that the Government of the Czech Republic will respond to this document in a perfectly standard way. And I believe that the only standard way is to wait for the official text in the Czech language to be delivered to us, and then the Czech government will draw up an answer. I believe that this afternoon we will have a lot to discuss, how to verify the results, how to ensure that it is completely independent, and I believe that there are ways. As a social democracy, we have talked about the Supreme Audit Office as an authority which, from my point of view, is absolutely indisputable and has already dealt with issues of conflict of interest in the past. We are also prepared to discuss how, if the House wishes, to involve the Chamber of Deputies in this process in the form of a supervisory committee. But from my point of view, there is no other procedure. We have to move within the law, and if we cross the law by one millimeter, we have a problem. I therefore believe that the conclusion of this day will be a clear report to the Chamber of Deputies that the document, when it arrives officially, will be discussed in accordance with the law. The second thing I want to talk about is my colleague Okamura's performance. Of course, I'm sorry that there was another physical attack on a person because of his opinion, let's say. I condemned the incident immediately after the incident. It goes without saying that the police are working on this thing and, of course, they're going to investigate the whole thing. Even the police contacted Mr. As she said, if she wished, she was prepared to deal with the matter in the form of temporary protection. So I want to reassure the Chamber of Deputies that we are not taking such an incident lightly, condemning it, and investigating it by the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u33	I thank the first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček. We can therefore proceed to the vote on the individual proposals to amend the agenda. First, a proposal from the Gremium, which was on the weekly agenda. We will decide in the vote number 432, which I have begun and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 432 of the 186 Members present, for 174, against no one. The motion has been approved. Now, therefore, individual proposals. First of all, the proposal made by Mr Ivan Bartoš. Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the preliminary draft audit of the European Commission. We'll decide the number in the vote... [[Member's application for withdrawal.]] Yes, I'll check you out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And once the number of entries is settled... We will decide in the vote number 433, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 433 of the 181 Members present, for 72, against 52. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the proposal from Vice-President Tomio Okamura. First of all, the item entitled The discussion of the risk of possible financial losses of the Czech Republic in connection with the preliminary report by the European Commission on the investigation of conflicts of interest of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. We will decide in the vote number 434, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 434 of the 182 Members present, for 175, against no one. The motion was accepted. The second proposal by Vice-President Okamura is a point to discuss a repeated physical attack on a member of the Radio and Television Council. We will decide in the vote number 435, which I have begun and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 435 of the 182 Members present, for 170, against no one. The proposal was also accepted. The third proposal is a proposal for the approval of a new item on the agenda, the method of financing social services for 2019, as the first item on Friday at 9 a.m. Against that... [[Ambassador Faltynek is objecting.]] I'll finish my sentence. Against this is the amendment to be the first point after 14 o'clock. [[Member of the Faltynek: 13.30.]] At 1:30, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. So first, we're going to vote on this point at 13.30, which is counterproposal against... [[Members are still arguing.]] Okay, there is an objection to voting first on the amendment, or first on President Excellent's proposal for nine o'clock. I've started voting number 436 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 436 of 184 Members present, for 67, against 20. The motion was not accepted. [[16.20 hours]] Now, a proposal to include a new point. Nobody questioned that point, it didn't veto that point. So the point is going to be placed, now it's when. Or it won't be included unless we vote in favour, but it's a proposal. That is, to include this item The method of financing social services in 2019 at 13.30 pm on Friday. I've started the 437 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 437: 184 for 183, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[The President's meeting with the President of PS Vondráček off the microphone.]] We voted on the new inclusion of the item. Nobody questioned, there were no vetoes, no vetoes, no 20 Members, and it was a proposal that was comprehensively including time. [[From Mr. Faltynek's post: Yes.]] No one questioned the President's procedure, so I had it voted. First, 9 o'clock, it didn't go through. I've put this item to a vote at 13.30 hours, it's passed. If you question the President's procedure, please suggest it and I will put it to a vote. Mr. Marek Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u34	Mr Vice-President, I am not questioning your procedure. I just think President Vondráček is right. There should be a vote on the inclusion of the item and then on the possible time for which it is to be included. This time we voted both at once, but it was a mistake. Let's just say it and let's not do it next time. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u35	All right. Now another point, and this is Mr Václav Klaus, Bread and Bread Grants, as the first point after the fixed points. So, first of all, if we want to include this point, which Mr Václav Klaus has raised. So I've started voting order number 438 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 438: 183 for 69, versus 8. The motion was not accepted. This point has not been included, so we will not decide on its firm inclusion either. Now here is Mrs Pekarová Adamová's proposal, and it is called The reply of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies is about financing social services. So we're going to decide on this point first. I've started the 439 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 439: 184 for 83 against 5. The motion was not accepted. So we're going to deal with the situation under another point on Friday. Mr Marian Jurečka - A statement of opposition to the position of the Russian Duma. With priority rights, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u36	Good afternoon, colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have a little request. I would like to convey the opinion of the Foreign Committee President Luboš Zaorálek, who has applied, wanted to do so, but either he has made a bad statement or you have not seen him, Mr President. But they have this point, which is exactly what it sounds like, on Thursday at the Foreign Committee, and the Chairman of the Foreign Committee considers that it would not be entirely reasonable to discuss it here in plenary on Wednesday, that is, the day before it is discussed on the committee. His great request and my great request are that we have nothing against putting this point on the House program, on the program of the plenary, but we believe that the Wednesday as a term is unhappy, and whether we could agree on any other term, even general. That means it wouldn't be Wednesday, but just some other time after the committee's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u37	Yes, thank you. Now with priority right Chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club, then Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u38	I have a request for the President and, if necessary, for the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies. Firstly, we are in the week when the Chamber of Deputies is sitting. The Foreign Committee, the Security Committee's meeting in the House of the Week. I don't think that's acceptable. It's a different week for that. Don't do this. First of all. Second to that point. We don't need to bring that up on the committee. I don't think we need to put this point on the committee, it's not complicated, it's not politically heated, it's very clear. Let's do it on Wednesday and you can cancel the committee on Thursday and attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and not the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u39	Now Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, then Chairman of the Social Democracy Club, then President of KDU-ČSL. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u40	Thank you. I have a polite request to my colleagues in social democracy. Today should be dedicated to one particularly fatal topic. I have full understanding that the Foreign Committee Chairman Zaorálek has gained many new knowledge, know-how and processes in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. But I have a big request. Let us not transfer this knowledge to parliamentary processes in the Czech Republic. Let's save it for another time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u41	Chairman of the Social Democracy Club Jan Chvojka. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u42	Thank you. I no longer want to respond to the subject, to the substance of the proposal, but rather to the fact that committees meet as necessary. Things are urgent, things are less urgent, which will last for a committee meeting for a week, but this is what the Foreign Committee President thinks is urgent. The committee is due to meet before the Chamber of Deputies meeting at 8 o'clock, so I would say that the objection of President Stanjura through Vice-President Filip was a little out of order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u43	Thank you. My colleague Výborný now. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor. I think that thing is pretty clear. There's no need to meet here at the level of the Foreign Committee. We want nothing more than for the House to support the position of the Secretary of State, the Minister for Social Democracy. So there is really no need for a foreign committee to meet, and we insist on what our colleague Jurečka suggested, to include it at the House meeting and to sign up for the position of our foreign minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-000-000.u45	Okay. Either way, we will decide on the inclusion of this item in the 440 series vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of Mr Marian Jurečka's proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 440: 185 for 164, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the inclusion for the time proposed by Mr Jurečka, there is no counterproposal, and that is 5. 6. As the first item in the afternoon meeting, that means tomorrow afternoon. We will decide in the vote the order number 441, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 441: 185 for 161 Members present, against no one. The motion was accepted. A new point in this meeting was therefore placed. [[16.30 hours]] By doing so, I have exhausted all the proposals that have been made here, and we can therefore embark on an approved agenda with the necessary changes. So now we're going to discuss the point that's been placed as the first point that's
