ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members, as amended /German press 410/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Jan Hamáček, Vice-President of the Government and Interior Minister, will state the bill. However, I have a mandate here that the Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček will represent him. So, Minister, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a proposal for a law amending Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members, as amended. The reason for the amendment of this proposal is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which takes place with effect from 30 June 2019 to repeal Section 48 (1) of the Constitutional Court. 2 of the Law. The aim of the proposal is to lay down the conditions and restrictions for the performance of other gainful activities of members directly in the law. So far, these conditions and restrictions are regulated by internal regulations, which the Constitutional Court found unconstitutional. A member of the Security Council will be able, with the approval of the official of the service, to engage in other gainful activities, provided that such activity does not result in a conflict of interests between the personal interests of the service, a threat to the good reputation of the security corps or a threat to the important interest of the service. If the official of the service finds that the circumstances under which the consent to pursue another gainful activity has changed, he or she shall be obliged to revoke that approval. The proposal also defines a range of activities which the member will be able to perform by law, i.e. without the above-mentioned consent of the official of service. These are mainly activities that can be carried out without consent within other employment relationships - for example, the management of own property. The proposal is the result of a compromise that arose from the work group consisting of representatives of security forces, trade unions and the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to conclude by stressing that, if, by the end of June of this year, the legislation laying down the conditions for the exercise of other gainful activities of members is not approved, the members will be able to pursue any other occupation without restriction, which may lead to a significant risk of conflict of interest and potentially also to security risks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u3	The proposal was ordered at first reading to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as the House Press 410/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, at the 20th meeting of the Security Committee, which took place on 21 March of this year, after the opening speech of the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček and the report presented to the Vice-President of the Committee by Dr Ondráček and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to amend Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the service of security forces members, as amended, the House Press 410 has given its consent; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Good evening, early evening, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Let's keep going. I am opening a general debate in which I have three applications at the moment. Mr Ondráček is the first to be logged in, then Mr Žáček will be prepared. I ask the Member for his proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u6	Thank you, Mr President. After the debate that took place at first reading and then at the Security Committee, I would like to turn your attention to the amendment that I have put into the system and which deals with two matters of service. It is partly based on the House's 399, which is here in the Chamber of Deputies, but which has not yet been discussed and concerns the same law. The first amendment concerning the service is the appointment to a higher rank in memoriam or former member. You know that in 25 years of the existence of an independent Czech state, that means the emergence of the Police of the Czech Republic, but also the Army of the Czech Republic, we have died in 25 years of service either abroad or even in training several soldiers. These soldiers of the Army of the Czech Republic have the possibility under their law to be promoted in memoriam to a higher rank than they had before their death. It is also the case with soldiers who have completed their service to the Czech Republic and are already retired. These soldiers too can be promoted to higher ranks. Police, virtually. This is not the case with the security forces, because there is a problem of rank and rank, where there is a duplication of rank, and that is the commissioner, to whom the rank mark of lieutenant or lieutenant corresponds, the chief commissioner, to whom the rank mark of captain or major corresponds, and so on and so forth. Therefore, it is not possible to promote this in memoriam in the case of members of the security forces who die in service even after the end of the active service to a higher rank, because this is not possible under the existing law. But I would also like to say that over the 25 years, more than 120 members of the security forces have died in the line of duty, substantially, several times more than the soldiers of the Czech Republic. This first area of adjustment, which would be newly conceived in § 8a, gives the opportunity to a member who died in the task of the Security Corps to be appointed to a higher rank than that which belonged to him at his last rank. Appointing a higher rank in memoriam would be decided by the Director of the Security Corps on a proposal from a staff official with personnel powers. It is without any burden on the state budget. It is simply a symbolic evaluation of the fact that someone performed their tasks in the protection of the security of the Czech Republic and even fulfilled the promise he made, which means, for example, the commitment of his own life. So the first area is symbolic. This option was still 12 years before this law was adopted 361, and it was a steady practice both in the first Republic and until 2007. And the second option is to promote a former member of the Security Corps who continues to work and name the security body to which he belongs. Such a place would be decided by the head of the Security Corps, the police president, the general director of the Fire Rescue Corps, the general director of the Prison Service, and it would be on the proposal of the association that brings together these former members. This is the first area and I think it should be our thanks and thanks for the work of members of the Security Corps who did not hesitate to defend and protect life and health of citizens of the Czech Republic to put our own lives on the line. The second area of adjustment, which I assume should be particularly interesting for the Government of the Czech Republic, is to level the basic tariffs for members of the security forces, which the government sets by its annual regulation. It is a regulation pursuant to § 115 para. There is also a key in the Act of 8.5% increase between individual tariffs and classes. And we are at this stage, when we have long heard from security forces, police managers, or security department managers, that salaries, in particular the starting salaries of police officers, firefighters, members of the Prison Service, are undervalued, are uncompetitive on the labour market. If the starting salary of a police officer with a risk premium here in Prague is 24,000 and the salary of an officer of the Municipal Police in Prague is over 30,000, as my dear colleague Jana Černochová said, which is therefore absent, or if you are driving means of public transport, you can read that the Prague City Transport Company is looking for a tram driver and offers a starting salary of CZK 35,000, so a police officer, firefighter, a member of the Prison Service or a Justice Guard is joining its security force for CZK 24,000. This is also due to the basic tariffs. And the difference between the starting salary in the second or third grade, the grade, is very different from the eighth or ninth grade, or the tenth grade, where the difference is up to 100 per cent, and more than 100 per cent. At the current average of salaries for members of the security corps, where for 2019 the average salary of 45 000 CZK is gross for the police, for the members of the Fire Rescue Corps it is CZK 47 000, that is the average salary for which, of course, 80 per cent of the members are below, so that if they set new tariffs for the following year and allocate the amount of money to the salaries of the security corps members that they could better and sensibly divide this money between individual grades and grades, but so, I note, that we do not come to any opinion that I want to give everyone the same, or that they should all have the same with the police, firemen and prison services, but so that the principle of merit is maintained. This means that the difference between the different levels of salary, between the individual rates of salary, must be maintained. It's just that - to translate it into numbers - if the government decides to add CZK 2,000 per head, it currently adds CZK 1,300 to those in the second or third grade and adds CZK 3,700 to those in the ninth grade or CZK 3,000 to those in the ninth grade. There would be an opportunity to add the 2,000 in the basic tariffs and those in the higher tariff classes for example 2,200. [[16.10 hours]] The difference between the levels in ten years, or more than ten years, 11 years of the law's effectiveness is so great that it will mean nothing, and we can, by that or we as legislators, stabilize the security forces and in some way attract new applicants for service for the Czech Republic. So I propose only these two areas that are, and they are in the Houses of the Press, to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. Now I'd mention business and non-business. I am sorry that the Minister is not here, because I would very much like to discuss some things with him here at this speaker's counter, because - and I believe that colleagues who are enrolled in the general debate will still be discussing this. I do not want to take this from my colleague Žáček, who addressed the Minister of the Interior, who answered him today, virtually. yesterday in a written reply to six pages, but if the Minister were here, I'd tell him that the answer is very vague and very bad. [[Minister Hamáček sits in his bench.]] The Minister is here, so that's good. Minister, what you basically answered here to my colleague Žáček, so you didn't answer anything, but I'll leave it to him because he's signed up for this debate. We're talking business and non-business. I don't know to what extent you're familiar with the state of the police, but I'm going to give you an entry from one of the regional director's meetings of January this year, where it says: Information from the Regional Director's meeting - and I'm not going to say the county. Information from the Police President's meeting. Personnel area. Information on police participation in the filming of Prima Police TV in action. You probably know that on a weekday morning after the endless MASH series, the Police are doing an action where real police officers play and show the work of the police with the camera behind their backs, the individual situations that normally come and happen in the police. These police officers have been contacted by Prima TV and are carrying out this activity. It says here that five police officers are involved in the project, you may know more, but other police officers are already out of service. Because they were filming, they were taken away. So he's already working with the city police today. The participation of members is against the will of the police, but it is an artistic activity and the police officer cannot be affected for this. That's the current concept of the law that's here because it's an artistic activity. All the equipment, it means uniforms, cars, radio stations, etc. they own the TV, the policeman only plays the role of a policeman. In conclusion, the content cannot be influenced and the policeman punished as the scenario is given from television. In the case of similar projects, it is necessary to deal with police officers and try to discourage them from participating. I ask you, dear colleagues, what is so bad that a police officer is showing the police work on a staged series. We're punishing him for that. We're firing him from the police? We're gonna fire a firefighter who's gonna show someday the severity of the firefighter's rescue crew's work, what these guys have to do, what they're coming to, and where they're all running from, where the firefighter's going? Is that what we're gonna throw them out for? We are now preparing and may be approving the Service Act, where it rotates and where we basically say you can do almost everything, but what we won't allow you to do. But it is clear from this example that the matter, which is now in accordance with the law, and how it is dealt with in the security forces, that the will for a police officer to perform any other occupation is very, very strong, and I fear that no matter how much he wants to pursue any gainful activity, there is a reason why he should not do business and should not have an occupation, he will always find it. I know you can't exactly write a catalogue of activities that a police officer could do, because something else will be for a traffic police officer, something else for a criminal police officer, something else for a firefighter, something else for a prison officer. I'm afraid the Minister may have mentioned in this letter, which he wrote, that it would not be a problem for a policeman to be a bus driver. You know, if he's gonna be a bus driver and he's gonna be driving for public transport or some traffic company, and they're gonna tell him he's got a catalogue plan or a list of events, he's probably gonna be hard to come by and say, you know, I'm gonna have to go on mandatory overtime tomorrow or I'm gonna have to take precautions because. Because if he was gonna be a bus driver, he'd probably have to be on a line or something. Or if we're expecting someone to buy a bus and wait for a phone call, if there's no free bus driver and there's no free bus at the house, I don't know to what extent a policeman can afford to buy a bus. So I don't know what this release will bring. I know that this is a response to the opinion or opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'll be very interested. I will be happy to hear the comments of my colleagues in the Security Committee or of those of you who want to deal with this issue, and then, in a detailed debate, I will sign up to the amendment on the two items I have read and ask for your support at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Before we give the floor to the next speaker, I have some apologies. Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes to us today from 16 a.m. to 17.30 p.m. to 21.00 for králíček of work, the first Vice-President Filip apologizes to us z not neúčast part in the meeting between 16.00 and 17.15 for reasons of work, Mr Jan Bauer apologizes to us from 17.30 to the end of the meeting day and tomorrow all day for reasons of foreign travel within the OSCE; Mrs Dana Balcarová apologises to us today from 18.30 p.m. for personal reasons; Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes us today from 16.30 p.m. to the end of the meeting day for working reasons. Well, hopefully we can arrange it. Now, then, Mr Žáček, for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I will not describe and remind you of the whole genesis of the problem that the executives have overlooked for quite a long time and which the current government wants to address with the amendment of the law. As I have already said in discussing the proposal for an amendment to the Committee on Security, there are a number of risks that will bring about the adoption of the law in this proposed form. In part, the government is opening a taboo, locked-down Pandořin's box, which may be the starting point for the future questioning of the benefits that security forces have today. Just a reminder, we are not only talking about the Police of the Czech Republic, although it is the largest but also about other security forces. Members of the Security Councils shall have a number of responsibilities resulting from their status as officials who must carry out their duties impartially, properly and conscientiously. They are obliged to comply with the service discipline, to obey the superior's orders, to perform the service at the time of their leave - this will be important for the next presentation - and to fulfil other obligations set out in the laws and regulations. In addition, refrain from acting which may lead to conflicts of interests of the service with personal interests, deepen your expertise and maintain your physical fitness. Another important point: to perform the ministry so that it is not influenced by their political, religious, or other beliefs, and not to endanger the good reputation of the Security Council. For this, they have advantages which compensate to some extent the damage that the performance of the duties brings. That's the last point. The following benefits are: They are granted a six-week leave, paid full salary for incapacity to work, after 15 years of service they are entitled to a two-week stay and after the service the pension rights. Cops also have working hours reduced to 37.5 hours a week. I'm afraid some of the benefits might be lost in the future by the security forces. Why also make exceptions when they are earning and doing business? It is logical for the members to think that there will be another person here who will feel like reaching out to his pension. We are currently having a debate on one of these proposals on the Committee on Security, respectively in subcommittees. [[16.20 hours]] Overall, the government's proposal is an unfortunate solution. Instead of exceptionality and exceptionality, there will be a claim if certain conditions are met. The right to do this inadequately on the side business and the opportunity to mess with the security forces. The official will then have to prove that there is a conflict of interest in the case, a threat to the good reputation of the Security Council or an important interest in the service. If a ministerial servant fails to do so, he must allow the activity to take place. And all this won't affect the state budget, as the explanatory memorandum states? In doing so, it should go the other way around. A member should demonstrate that his other gainful activities will not result in the predicted negative consequences. This in the case of admission will be the first standard since the emergence of the Police of the Czech Republic, which puts an integral command power on the head. But there are a lot more risks and I will allow myself to outline them briefly. As I have already mentioned, the authorisation of a particular member of staff will be decided by the relevant official, with the delegation of personnel powers depending on the decision of the head of the Security Service. It may therefore be the regional director, the head of the territorial department, but even the head of the department, while individual service decisions of the official will have to honor a similar view of what can be regarded as a conflict with the interest of the service, which will place far higher demands on them. While in many cases the opposite is true. Education claims are reduced, there can be no talk of coordinated management. In order to unify application practice, regional directors should decide on this at least. I can certainly agree with a number of you that talk about some kind of regional law is unacceptable, especially if it comes from some of the leading representatives of the security forces - here I refer to our discussion with the then-to-be director of GIBS, Mr Dragoun, in the negotiations of the Security Committee - and yet the amendment indirectly supports this regional law. If there is such a thing in practice, it should be fought against it and not go on the other hand by changing a similar negative practice across from it. However, what has been expressly prohibited until now by law and could not be legally circumvented will now be permitted by the official of the service, unless he finds strong arguments for the non-approval of such other gainful activity, not to mention the absence of case-law, and even if only a methodology which the official of the service could and should follow. Although it was said at the committee's meeting that a sort of unifying order was given, it would not be binding, since the amendment does not provide for any blanket clause. Thus, reference to him is pure alibiism. Newly, in the context of the authorisation of business, an appeal will be admissible against decisions in proceedings in matters of service, which will be decided by a senior official. Subsequently, an administrative action may be brought before the Administrative Chamber of the Regional Court, and also an appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Before we know the first judicates, it will take about five years and until then some members of the security forces will be happy to do business, although they will be in conflict of interest. Moreover, will we again wait for the Constitutional Court's decision to learn that this really cannot be done? I refer to the explanatory memorandum to this amendment proposal and its allegedly zero impact on the state budget. Let us not forget the very serious risk of privatizing security. I can imagine a situation where there is a real threat to the use of security forces within the commercial security service or any other involvement in ensuring local public order matters, as if it were the case with municipal police officers. Yes, a member could, if necessary, perform part-time work as a part-time assistant, even a municipal officer, or even a security guard, detective, and other activities for private security agencies. I dare say this is not the goal that we colleagues want to achieve. Is it? It will certainly be surprising for some, but the Service Act allows members to work part-time. This completely rotates the sense of service in the Security Corps. In the end, it could be that a cop is really just gonna be on a side job, and he's gonna be providing security like a mess. That's the government's goal? Is this the declared attractiveness of the work in the security forces he's calling for? In other words, citizen, you will be able to enter the Security Corps and, in addition to service security, you will be able to do business. Is that what we want? In some security forces, especially the Police of the Czech Republic, there has recently been a very clear attempt to re-enter the service of former so-called civilized personnel, informatics, economists, lawyers and other service professions outside the direct performance of the service. Probably to report success either from recruiting old-fashioned members or for spending recruitment contributions. But proving that their private personalistic, economic, legal, or informatic activity is in conflict with the interests of the service, let alone that they are unacceptably tired of attending the service, will be more difficult. In order to defend the need for a service law for members, this trend is directly deadly. I repeat, the explanatory memorandum does not indicate any impact on the state budget. Such a claim cannot be accepted. It will only be a matter of time before countless double-instance service procedures, including any judicial review, arise. At the same time, the amount of individual considerations of service officials will not lead to a reduction in the corruption risk. Finally, even a key figure in the area of security oversight, such as the head of GIBS, will have to allow what anyone, for example, permits in the district. You can often hear a declaration about the attractiveness of service, competitiveness and so on, and I will leave it to your judgment, colleagues, whether you consider it to be that way, when the attractiveness of the service will increase, the more extra-service activities will be permitted by the service officials. However, the quality of the service will be quite logically the opposite. Speaking of performance quality, I'm gonna say it all the time. A fireman, a police officer or a member of the prison service, a guard, a guard and so on, cannot come to work tired of any other activity at any cost. Otherwise, he doesn't have to be in the service. Yet, according to the government's proposal, no official will forbid the work of a lumberjack, a height work or a driver of anything, because he will not be in conflict of interest according to the official's office. It is necessary to define clearly what the conflict of interest is, and to realize that in the case of the service of members of the congregations, it can also be fatigue. Let me give you some model examples. A police officer who once worked as an accountant or personalist in the Security Corps was long ago logically civilized because he did not need a uniform or a gun or any other authorization. But then the past government of the ČSSD, ANO came up with a recruitment contribution and inability to carry out recruitment, and so the former member helped and returned to the service. He took a recruitment allowance and subsequently asked for business after this amendment, because there can be no conflict between an accountant and a personalist, and on that occasion he will move to Prague because the housing allowance is coming. At least there's been a debate about him for years. If he lives in Prague, the risk will undoubtedly be higher for the accountant, and so will the so-called risk contribution be a little higher. And yet the same accountant, personalist, and so on can be in civilian life somewhere near a computer in the Blue Sea for a whole year and may even be much more beneficial to the congregation. Fatigue is a flagrant and unacceptable conflict of interest for security forces. It is unacceptable for service officials to allow activities such as ambulance driver, municipal officer, organizer or bouncer, taxi driver, forester, engineer and so on. What causes fatigue, we could see recently in railroad accidents. Suppose the so-called nightclub organizer or taxi driver ends up on his brigade at 6:00 a.m. and takes up duty at 7:00 p.m. And we're sure in cases like this, the officer won't get permission? On the contrary, in any case of business, will every ministerial servant require a minimum of 12 hours' rest? I'm sure there's no mention of that in any decisions. Is that correct? A member of the Security Corps is still obliged to perform the service at the time of his leave. A police officer is de facto a police officer 24 hours seven days a week. So what's it gonna look like if it's allowed to go into business for example as a taxi driver? What if a taxi driver sees an illegal activity? How's he gonna act against a person? As a taxi driver or as a police officer? Are we gonna have, like, taxi patrols? Carpenter patrols? Ambulance car patrols or public transport? I contacted the Home Secretary in writing, also the head of the Security Corps, but they did not have time to provide me with the information requested, even in order to shorten the deadline for discussing the draft in the committees, in order to complete some information that we did not have time to discuss on the Security Committee. Unfortunately, yesterday's Minister's reply could not satisfy me because some problems were not answered. I am therefore forced to ask these questions again here. Nobody wants to patronize you, Minister, but you should be clear about what you want as a promoter. Will police officers be allowed to engage in other gainful activities in the form of a personalist, accountant, constable of municipal police, organizer of social events, sitting in court, shooting range administrator, trial commissioner, driving school, obtaining a license or taxi driver? Will firefighters be allowed other gainful activities in the form of ambulance driver, accountant, personalist, taxi driver, public transport driver, forester, person performing height work? What and what other gainful activities do you consider to be a threat to the good reputation of the Security Corps? [[16.30 hours]] In one of your replies, you said that the principle of administrative proceedings would not be violated in the case of similar cases. But you're right that what might be permitted to a member of the Prison Service may not be permitted to a member of the Police of the Czech Republic. But who and how will ensure consistency of interpretation and authorisation if the authority is delegated to a lower duty officer, such as the Police of the Czech Republic? What if a ministerial official in one county allows something that is not possible in another? By the way, this practice has attacked the Constitutional Court with its findings. Among other things, this was why I asked you to give examples. This is followed by your further answer to my question when you referred to the fact that mechanisms should be created within the organisational structures to ensure unity. But how? Is there a methodology? This is not a new problem. The courts have dealt with the problems of the repealed provision for years. So why didn't the Home Office or the Security Corps come up with such a methodology before? Why aren't they ready, and why are they so surprised? On the question of authorising a short-time assignment of members of the security forces, you said that it is not expected - at the same time, it does not exclude - that it will be used in connection with any other gainful activity of a member of the security corps. It is, in fact, possible. If so, what are the rules? You have stated, Minister, that fatigue is not a conflict of interest to you. In my opinion, yes, and even very dangerous. You said directly, among other things - I quote: "The fact that a member will be tired one day after self-employment does not mean that this will always be the case. " On the contrary, it does not mean that it will not be more frequent. Then why risk it? That a member may be tired of sports performance or gardening, limps. After all, this is not a regular other gainful activity authorised by the Security Corps. In addition, the security service is designed as a full - time job, including rest time, not extra time for further business. If members of the security forces are ill, it is primarily the fault of the government's inability to stabilise and ensure that the members of the security forces have the conditions for serving. It was a pleasant surprise to me that the Ministry of the Interior and its subordinate security forces did not register the numbers or the type of other gainful activity of the members. While it is true that there is no obligation for members to report, it also admits that today there is virtually no control over who does what for another occupation. So if it comes down to someone doing something wrong, that's a coincidence? Does the member rely on the internal act of the proceedings of the Director of the Security Corps to be followed and that's the end of it? Of course, I know that you are not a contractual official in the sense of the amendment to the law, but I assume that you have addressed similar questions to the Director of the Security Corps as the law's promoter, so you certainly know the answer. Continuous efforts to approximate the service of security forces members with a classic employment relationship are inadmissible. Although the government knew for a long time about the problem, it postponed its solution at the last minute and subsequently submitted something that could hardly be accepted without comments and adjustments. The government should redo its low-quality proposal, but it's too late for that at this point. The ODS will not support an adjustment that goes against the original meaning of the service of members of the security forces. But because we are constructive in this area, Jana Černochová and I offer a helping hand to get out of this situation. Did the government realize that soldiers also have the possibility of other gainful activities regulated in their law? Unlike this government proposed regulation, it is tested in practice and without any problems when it eliminates some of the above mentioned risks. The approximation of the service of security forces members, of course, in some cases, with the service of professional soldiers is possible and to some extent is the only way to avoid constant efforts to avoid absurd approximation of service with employment, which would certainly be confirmed by colleagues from the Defence Committee in particular. In addition, unlike professional soldiers, members of the security forces, police officers, firefighters and so on are deployed in direct service to carry out activities every day. In quotation marks, they are said to be at war in the streets every day, while soldiers, with all due respect for them and their work, are being deployed to defend their homeland exceptionally, and their task is to prepare for the possible danger and defence of their homeland. For this reason, my colleague Jana Černochová proposes, in her amendment under the number of House document 2616, to use the good application practice set out in Act No. 221/1999 Coll., on professional soldiers, when it is clear that this is an entirely exceptional institute for authorising other gainful activities for professional soldiers. Moreover, this removes the proposed regulation, which in practice could lead to a number of interpretation problems. It is also proposed to specify the level from which it will be possible to decide to grant an exemption in the position of official. This will prevent potential problems in the form of disunity of the decision-making of individual service officials. I will, of course, sign up for this amendment in the context of a detailed debate. The reasons for the amendment can be found in the system. However, I would like to point out that neither the Constitutional Court's finding nor the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court on which we are actually discussing this amendment indicates that the current practice of service of members of the security forces, professional soldiers or other servants of the State without administrative proceedings, or proceedings in the field of service, would be inconvenient. It is therefore unnecessary to introduce this very costly procedure. Again, this would create inequalities between service conditions, which, on the contrary, the Constitutional Court criticised. At the same time, it should be noted that this is not a decision on matters directly related to the service, but an assessment of whether the conduct and conduct of a member at a time off duty is contrary to the interests of the employer. Therefore, the burden of proof should rest on the part of a member who should demonstrate that he will not be in conflict of interest, will not endanger the important interest of the service or the good reputation of the Security Council. In the event of proceedings in a matter of service, this would be the other way round, and if the competent official did not provide sufficient evidence for which the application could be rejected, the consent would become enforceable. However, this is certainly not in line with the principles of service or in the interests of the service. According to the proposed adjustment, the relevant official would only justify the withdrawal of consent, if necessary, on the basis of the findings of the new information. For example, a member is given consent to the repair of vehicles and it is subsequently found that he is repairing the car to faulty persons. It would certainly be appropriate here to withdraw the consent and to justify, on the basis of the facts found, that the good name of the Security Council is being put at risk. On 1 July 2019, the Constitutional Court annulled Article 48 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 of Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the service of members of the Security Corps to whom their right to any other gainful activity is restricted, except those which allow the internal act of management of the Director of the Security Corps, stating that this right can only be restricted by law. In December 2018, the Ministry of Interior proposed an amendment based on this finding. Unlike previous arrangements, it directly defines the activities which a member may carry out without the consent of the superior and, in the case of any other activity, whether in employment or self-employed, requires proceedings to be carried out in matters of service for the decision of the official. But not many of us have noticed that another part of the provisions fell out as a bonus. It is a provision or a passage about receiving the remuneration of members in supervisory and administrative boards. Therefore, in accordance with Article 48 (2) of the Treaty, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union is not in a position to rule on the application of Article 108 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the extent that the Court of Justice of the European Union is not in a position to rule on the application of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Court of Justice of the European Union'. "Competent authority shall not be a member of the As a representative of the Czech Republic, he is obliged to promote his interests and must not receive remuneration from the legal person concerned, unless otherwise provided in the specific legislation. The remuneration referred to in the first sentence may not be paid to the member even after the termination of his service.' End of quote. However, there is a new change when § 48 para. 1 is read: "The competent authority may not be a member of the management or control bodies of legal persons engaged in business activities, except where it is posted to those authorities by the official of service, and with the exception of membership of the management or control bodies of legal persons whose founder or founder is the State. A member seconded by a service official shall act in these bodies as a representative of the Czech Republic and shall be obliged to promote its interests." End of quote. In my opinion, as well as my colleague Černochová's opinion, there is no reason for a member to receive additional salary for membership of the management or control bodies of legal persons whose founder or founder is the State. A member seconded by a service official shall act in these bodies as a representative of the Czech Republic and shall be obliged to pursue his or her intentions and to carry out his/her duties in his/her due working time for which he/she has already received his/her remuneration. I wonder, and I'm certainly not the only reason for this change. I also asked the Minister, of course, and in my reply yesterday, those answers were at least evasive. Unfortunately, the Minister has not provided me with information on how many members of the Security Corps are concerned with this provision. He only stated that these are units of cases. In addition, it did not provide a list of legal entities in which he is currently a member of the security forces. At the same time, he should have such data at least with the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps. In addition, the Minister stated that the current wording of the law also allows for the payment of the remuneration in question. Okay, then I'm asking: If that's the case, then why does it want to change today? Why doesn't he give names and identify legal entities, some of which, by the way, are even found on the web? If these are really units of persons in control bodies, why was it difficult to provide this information when I asked for them? I rightly believe that they were even persons who took part in our meeting with the Security Committee. In this context, I am certainly asking for a supplement. [[16.40 hours]] In the very conclusion, I would like to criticise the fact that the Minister introduced an amendment to the system today at 11.30, which is an amendment to his proposal, which is, of course, spicy in itself, but, above all, not another one, during negotiations with us on the Committee on Security. I also ask whether this amendment is based on the Constitutional Court's finding, on what we have been informed that this amendment is coming out, or a mere lobbyist label. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u9	Thank you, too. And before we continue the debate, I have a note here. We apologize to Mrs Válková between 16.30 and 19.00 because of a doctor's visit. There. At this point, I have no applications for debate. I'm asking if anyone's reporting from place to place to debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. The Minister is interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u10	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, first of all, please apologise for not being present at the start of this point. I was a member of the President's delegation to the meeting with the Prime Minister of Vietnam, where we also discussed the issues of the security and cooperation of the interior department, so I apologize for that and thank the Foreign Minister for representing me at the beginning. About what happened here in the debate. We had a lot of things to talk about on the Security Committee. I understand that this is not enough and that the arguments need to be repeated here in plenary and on the microphone. But to Mr Ondráček, who quoted here, that is what I intercepted when I arrived, from the alleged minutes of the Regional Police Director's meeting. I know the material, too. It's an alleged report from a South Moravian police meeting. I'll ask Mr. Police President to check if the material is authentic, and if so, Mr. Police President, if so. Colonel Tržil a few things will have to explain. To Mr Žáček. He got off here for a relatively long time. He repeated the arguments he said at first reading, said them later on the committee. I don't want to compete with him in the length of the performance. I have sent him an answer that I consider sufficient, and I understand that there are always other reasons to criticize the position of the Ministry of the Interior. However, I consider this debate redundant for one simple reason. That's the material all the heads of the security corps have agreed on. The MP was present on the Security Committee, where Mr. Police President, General Director of the Fire Rescue Corps, was there Colonel Koudelka of the Security Information Service, there was the Director of GIBSu, there was Mr. Chief of the Prison Service, etc. There was intelligence. And they all agreed that this is how the text suits them. This text has also been discussed with the trade unions. It was a union match. And I'm just looking into what the problem is when everyone agrees with it, and the only one who has problems with it - Mr. MP Žáček, possibly. Colleagues from ODS. I can't come up with a document that's better than the one on which all those who are responsible for those security forces have agreed in the finals. I just don't have another alternative. Therefore, I say that we have put forward a quality material that we have all agreed on, and I have no room to improve it anymore. Not even by cataloging what we don't allow, what we don't allow. Mr. Žáček clearly heard Mr. Police President, who said on the record on the committee that he would be most restrictive. This means that it will allow only the minimum necessary at its discretion. And it certainly does not apply that there will be a regional principle, that in the South Moravian Region, Colonel Tržil will allow something other than Colonel Kužel in Moravian-Silesian. There'll just be a clear methodology of the Police Presidium. And Mr. Police President told you it would be extremely restrictive. As far as the Fire Department is concerned, the problem is a little different. I have noted your reservations here that perhaps firefighters should not drive trucks or that they should not do climbing work. Well, they're already doing it, except we're paying for it, because the engineer, if he's gonna have any habits, he just has to have mileage. And you'll agree with me that those fire trucks don't drive that many miles again. So if you're going to be a professional and you're going to control that technique, then somewhere you're going to have to drive those kilometers. So either we send him to driving school and we pay for it, we pay him fitness rides, or we just let him do it in the middle of his underemployment. Same height work. We have - now we have opened in the Great Poříčí climbing polygon in 70 miles. CZK and there we will train our firefighters, and I believe also foreign, in order to learn how to handle the questions associated with climbing work. Why wouldn't we allow them to do this in their spare time as a self-employment? And once again, Major General Ryba has made it clear to you on the committee. So from my point of view, we are having a completely unnecessary debate about a document that has absolute agreement across the security forces. And the only one who has reservations about this, or the only two, the only two votes that are being heard, are from Mr Žáček and Mrs Černochová. I totally respect that, I understand that this is part of some kind of political struggle. I just don't know how to improve the document when we all agreed on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u11	Thank you, too. That was the plaintiff's final word. I ask the rapporteur for the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, allow me in the final report - thank you for looking at the minutes of the meeting, possibly. another, if you'll read the material, if you don't. You'll be interested, so take a look at page two, right in the first indent. During - and this is quite interesting, because it almost smells like there's some kind of iniquities going on here. During this year, it is desirable to deal with the duplication of systematic service positions, especially in higher tariff classes. In parentheses: The problem is that the Ministry of Finance does not see double SMS during ongoing control, it does not solve them in terms of budget, which is a problem for financing in the process of relationing wage funds to unfulfilled numbers. - Very simply translated, those tables that are, so clone, work, they are waged, which then can be well divided among selected security forces. These are things that are problematic. These are things that we would like to deal with in another House press, which may have caused a certain storm in a glass of water and disagreements between us here, but these are things that should certainly be addressed. As far as the firemen are concerned. I am fully in favour of firefighters not only improving their habits and skills, but to deepen them. And if they also do so and do so in their spare time, e.g. by doing climbing work, or by doing climbing work. He's driving some kind of vehicle. It's going to take the 30-ton tank - or I'm going to ask my colleague, the chairman of the Committee on Firefighters, but about 30 tons of it will have a full tank - for the lighthouses in the traffic that is here, it really requires some specialization and without a lot of mileage, you just can't get the wheel in your hand. And I am in favour of doing so. In case they make more money with it, maybe it's a good thing. So there are activities where I really wouldn't have any problem, that in this case the firefighter should specifically have some kind of gainful activity. And if he cuts down trees in climbing technology or just do anything else, he improves himself while working with the chainsaw, which he uses quite often at exits, works in climbing technology, tied up, I think it's nothing against nothing. And that officer can still make money on that low salary. So I wouldn't see the problem there. I guess time will tell the problems that are going to happen. And the individual administrative decisions, if any. The courts that are going to happen, and I expect them to happen, because the performance of the activities of individual security forces and individual members is so broad-spectrum that they really create a table where it says "you can do this, you can't do that" that it's just not in the power of the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u13	Thank you, too. Those were the final words. We would therefore now proceed to the vote. As far as I know, there have been no proposals that should be voted after the general debate. So I am opening the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be duly justified. And first, please, Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u14	Dear colleagues, colleagues. I won't do it again. The original amendment, which I tabled in the general debate on the possible appointment to a higher rank in memoriam or to a former member, was described and justified. Likewise, the possibility, or possibly, of unleashing tied hands for the government, to be able, within the framework of its regulation establishing basic tariffs for security forces, to distribute better the funds allocated to the chapter of each security corps, but to maintain the principle of merit between individual tariffs and, of course, the level. You have this material as House document 2452 and I fully refer to it. At the same time, Mr President, let me read one more amendment, which is not in the system, and I would therefore ask you for more attention...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u15	I understand, I also wanted to ask the House for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. If you need to discuss anything other than the current law, please do so in the foyer. Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u16	Thank you. In Article 3, "1 July 2019' is replaced by "the date of its publication'. Grounds: According to the Government, the draft law is to take effect on 1 July 2019 and this date follows the decision of the Constitutional Court PL.US This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of Act 361/2003 Coll. At present, it seems almost unrealistic and threatens to fail to adopt and publish the bill in the Collection by the end of June of this year. Account must be taken of the expected length of discussions in the House, today's second reading, guarantee committee, third reading, sent to the Senate and so on, the President's signature and the length of time-limits - the Senate, the President of the Republic. For that reason, the proposed entry into force fixed for 1 July 2019 appears inappropriate and could be jeopardised. That is why it is proposed here in the amendment that the bill should take effect as soon as possible, that is the date of the declaration of the law. The entry into force thus established shall be used rather exceptionally. It is used here because it is an urgent matter and the new legislation is relatively brief. The sooner the amendment takes effect, the shorter the duration of the gap in the law caused by any delay in the legislature's response to the Constitutional Court's finding. At the same time, it can be considered that the need for accelerated adoption of the new legislation is known to the addressees, so they should not be surprised if it becomes effective on the day of its publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u17	Thank you, too. Next up, Mr Žáček is enrolled in the debate. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Looks like the House is a little calmer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief, I've already confessed enough. On this basis, I am signing up for Jana Černochová's amendment, which is listed under number 2616 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u19	Thank you. The reasoning has already been made. And now I beg Mr Kolářík, who is logged in. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would like to read here my amendment, which is under document 2687. He's quite simple, one line. By Article 60 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 60 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in particular Article 60 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning This amendment of mine synchronizes basically the Labour Code and the Occupational Soldiers Act, where ordinary employees and soldiers have this reasonable period of time counted for duty, whereas this is not the case with the Security Corps. I think everyone should have it the same way, so it corrects this discrepancy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u21	Thank you. Now, the Minister for debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u22	Thank you. In a detailed debate, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which was to a certain extent announced by Mr Žáček. He's 2677. I just want to turn against the concept of stickers. It's not a sticker. As a government, we suggested that this material be discussed in accordance with Section 90. In that case, no amendments would be possible. The opposition exercised veto rights at its discretion. At that point, the law is open and amendments can be applied. My proposal concerns, firstly, the possibility of introducing a so-called stabilization bonus and, secondly, it deals with the status of former members of the security forces, that is, it is a matter relating to this law, and it is not an adhesive. Detailed reasons are included in the printing or material 2677. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-010-009.u23	Thank you, too. That was the last application for a debate at the moment. I'm asking if there's anyone else reporting for the debate from the scene. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words of the Minister or of the rapporteur. Doesn't look like he's interested in closing words. In that case, we should vote on proposals. However, I believe that no proposals for shortening deadlines or similar have been made. So I'm going to end the second reading of this proposal, and we're going to move on. I thank the rapporteur and thank the rapporteur. So the next point is this point right over here.
