ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-004-031.u1	31. Government bill amending Act No. 29/2000 Coll., on postal services and amending certain laws (the Postal Services Act), as amended, and Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended / House print 555/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that this law is proposed to vote pursuant to § 90 para. 2, this means that we pass the law at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček, whom I welcome at the table. And my colleague Leo Luzar is at the newsstand as well. I have the right to register, after opening words which I cannot interrupt, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. Prime Minister, I will give you my word as soon as the crowd before you dissolves and you have a decent enough environment to discuss. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-004-031.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, the proposed amendment amending the Postal Law on postal services and amending certain laws is an adaptation regulation to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on cross-border parcel delivery services. This Regulation was submitted in the framework of the so-called e-commerce package and the Regulation itself obliges parcel delivery services operators, inter alia, to provide national regulatory authorities with all information on their services, numbers of consignments, their prices and the like. In essence, this regulation is already being implemented in practice, because information on prices of selected services is provided to the postal operators under this Regulation to the Czech Telecommunications Authority, so there is nothing new. They are then published on the European Commission's website, so that, in fact, all European customers, including e-shop customers, can choose the most advantageous service provider for them. The bill, as I said before, has an adaptation character and represents the so-called minimalist implementation of the regulation. The proposal does not foresee any impact on the state budget. This proposal has already been approved by the Government on 15 July 2019 and given its minimalist nature and simplicity due to the date of adaptation of the sanctions provisions, we propose that the Chamber of Deputies agree to the proposal at first reading. I therefore ask for the support of this from our point of view of the non-controversial proposal and its approval at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-004-031.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček for his opening words. I will now ask the rapporteur to present his intelligence report. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-004-031.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said here by the Minister, this is an implementation of a European directive which, in my view, is quite necessary because it regulates or regulates rules in the context of cross-border parcel delivery. It is the terminus technicus resulting from the directive, which has quite a significant impact on the unification of the European market in electronic commerce, especially in e-shops, as has already been said by the Minister. This implementation is designed in accordance with Section 90, or approval at first reading, with the fact that the implementation of this regulation is really the basis plus the determination of responsibility for the Czech Telecommunications Office, the Czech Trade Inspection in the framework of the control of this Regulation. Among other things, and I will admit that, as rapporteur in the report, this has been slightly confused, finally explained in the context of the discussion with the petitioner, the amendment to the text of the original proposal in the framework of the legislation of the wording of this Act, which is valid at the same time, when the shift in the sections is regulated, although the text remains preserved. I was told that this is in the context of clarification, when in the introductory provisions of Section 1, the point is deleted, in point 2, which is then included in the definition of the basic terms in the original version. From this point of view, of course, I think that if this law starts to apply at first reading, we are able, I suppose, to reach the Christmas market, when a huge amount of supplies, packages from cross-border cooperation within the European Union can already be protected from abuse by this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-004-031.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open the debate in which I have the priority right to apply to Mr Miroslav Kalousek, and I record Mr Dominik Feri's application. I will also note that according to § 90 para. The proposal may not be discussed in accordance with paragraph 2, if at least two Members' clubs object to it before the end of the general debate, i.e. before the end of the general debate, or 50 Members. I do not have a document, so I expect a statement on this matter. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-004-031.u6	Yes, you predicted correctly, Mr President. Allow me, on behalf of two clubs, ODS and TOP 09, to veto the proceedings under Section 90. For TOP 09 I add that we have nothing against the implementation of this standard into the Czech legal system, but we do not see the reason why it should be discussed with the 90th. We want a proper hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-004-031.u7	Thank you. You've made my job easier, Mr. Chairman. It is therefore clear that we will proceed in the standard way to three readings, i.e. in the general debate, not only legislative technical adjustments or changes of effectiveness will be presented, but a common debate will be held. We can therefore continue to do so by speaking to Mr Dominik Feri. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-004-031.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not gonna make a point, I'm not gonna make a point, I'm not gonna do a hearing. The ministers are trying. They're always gonna give it all to the 90s, and they're hoping to get away with it. But there are nine deputies here. What are the chances of this going through, if the clubs don't even talk to them, if some parliamentary newsletter doesn't even come to them and tell them, look, or, best of all, the minister or deputy, but look, we really care, we're there in time, we didn't have time to discuss it. But unfortunately, there's no such thing. I think it would be a good habit if this were simply happening, if we were approached by the individual partials, because then the 90s could go through and it could not happen that two clubs, which, of course, are in a large proportion to those government clubs, can block the discussion, thereby making it difficult for the minister to work. So please, if the members of the government can address us, we can, I think, accommodate us. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-05-ps2017-035-08-004-031.u9	Thank you for the show. I do not have one registered for the debate, but first of all I have to say that the apology of Mrs Lucie Šafránková, who is already present, is further apologized by Jan Čižinský from 16.30 pm to the end of the day. So did Markéta Adamová Pekarová from 4:30 p.m. to the end of the meeting day. So now I have no one to sign up for the debate, and I ask who's signing up for the debate. If no one, I am done with the debate. We do not have any motion to reject or return, so we will deal with the motion on the commandments of committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. [[16.40 hours]] The President of the Chamber of Deputies decided by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Anyone interested in a committee other than an economic committee as a guarantee? [[Gong.]] It's not like that. We will therefore decide by vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will decide who agrees that the proposal submitted should be directed to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I've started voting 211. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 211. Of the 141 Members present for 140, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee? [[Noise in the hall.]] It's not like that. I can therefore say that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Economic Affairs as a Committee on Guarantee, no other committee has been ordered, no decision has been taken to shorten or extend the time limit for the hearing. I'm done with point 31. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. Vice-President of the Government remains at the rapporteur's table because the next item is point number
