ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u1	316. Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the current situation at the Turkish - Syrian border This item was proposed by the Gremies in agreement with the MPs. We agreed with Vice-President Pikal that, although the words should be adopted by the representatives of the appellants whom I was designated, he would first speak as rapporteur, and Vice-President of the House of Pikal, because he has a resolution prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. It really is. I would like to thank both the Gremium and the House for including this point and all those who worked hard to find this identical motion for a resolution, which we were actually able to draw up quite quickly, faster than the House was able to discuss opening hours on public holidays. I will introduce you to this motion for a resolution, and then I will leave room for the other speakers. There was a consensus that there should be only one member of each club. I believe we can keep this up, or we will act until this point is discussed. Motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies 1. Expresses solidarity with the Syrian population, whose majority live in very difficult conditions, millions of people were internally displaced or forced to flee abroad. The Turkish invasion will only further deepen the humanitarian crisis and increase the suffering of the civilian population, including women and children; 2. Condemns Turkey's invasion of Syria as a violation of international law; 3. Welcomes the decision of the Government of the Czech Republic to suspend export licences for military material to Turkey as part of the coordinated procedure of the Member States of the European Union; 4. Calls on the Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, to request that the European Council, at the forthcoming European Council, order the European Commission to draw up a proposal for economic and political measures aimed at forcing Turkey to stop military operations; 5. Condemns the brutal murder of Hevrin Khalaf, Secretary General of the Party of the Future of Syria, allegedly committed by pro-Turkish militants. This crime, like many others, must be investigated and the perpetrators punished; 6. categorically rejects Turkey's threats to the European Union states to free the way for migrants to Europe." Thank you. This is therefore a consensual proposal. I will now take the role of rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u3	I'll ask for a replacement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u4	Good evening. The Vice-President has the floor for the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the House has included the discussion of the Turkish attack on Syria with the aim of brutally attacking the Kurd living here. As a member of NATO, Turkey attacked our ally, the so-called Syrian democratic forces, whose backbone is Kurdish militias. The result of the barbaric bombing and other attacks, according to the UN, is now over 100,000 refugees, as well as the first refugees from the so-called Islamic state that were detained by the Kurd and freed by the Turkish attack. Reuters wrote that in the northeast of Syria, the radicals from the Islamic State had increased their activity in connection with the Turkish invasion and the bombings and other attacks were multiplying. US President Donald Trump has signed a new order that allows US authorities to impose significant sanctions against Turkey. The United States will impose up to 50% duty on imports of Turkish steel and will immediately cease negotiations with Ankara on trade agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to stand either on the side of the attackers or be neutral. Either we are opposed to war crimes, we reject attacks on sovereign countries, we reject occupation of foreign countries, or we approve, for example, of staying silent and staying out of the way. It must also be made clear that we are not afraid of the blackmail and threats of President Erdogan against European countries. The Čech were there when, over 300 years ago, we made it clear where its limits were. Today's modern effort to reincarnation the Turkish Empire must receive an equally clear answer. I propose that the House condemn the Turkish attack on Syria and call on Turkey to end aggression and occupation. Furthermore, under the SPD, we propose that we approve sanctions against Turkey both in the area of arms exports, which the government has already taken on the first step, as well as in other commodities. Furthermore, we call on the Government of the Czech Republic to call on the European Commission to stop payments immediately from the European Union budget to Turkey. We would also like to call on the Government of the Czech Republic to initiate the provisions of the International Court of War Crimes in Northern Syria, so-called Kurdistan. That's basically the SPD's position. I will not read this anymore as a motion for our resolution, because the resolution has already been compromised to pass through the Chamber of Deputies. But for us, under the SPD, we would like Turkey to immediately end the military operations and occupation of all territories belonging to Syria, we would like to be in favour of sanctions on the exports of ammunition and military equipment, because it threatens to be used for terrorist attacks on the civilian population in Syria - the government is already taking the first step here - and we also ask the European Commission to stop all payments to Turkey from the EU budget. And for us, for the SPD, I will also say that we would like Turkey to be voted out of NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u6	Now with priority rights before the Prime Minister opens the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, I have been asked to address this issue here, because this is a very complex issue and, above all, a long-term problem. My colleague Okamura was wrong in the first sentence. Because unfortunately - unfortunately not, it is so, our ally is Turecko. He's a NATO member. I think you've forgotten, Mr. Vice-President. This is the North Atlantic Treaty, April 4, 1949, at the time they had no contracts of 500 pages, as we have today, signed in Washington. [[shows several sheets of paper]] Turkey became a member of NATO as Greece in 1952. So I would just like to say that, of course, the Czech Republic identifies with the common practice of the European Union. When was the joint procedure adopted? Monday, 14. 10 at 8 o'clock the Foreign Ministers sat down and condemned, the European Union condemned, this military operation. It is a great disaster, it should not have happened, people are dying, it is unacceptable, but at the same time I believe that the whole situation could be prevented if the Turkish president of the world powers, including the EU, were actively negotiating and trying to find a common solution with Turkey, a NATO member. [[18.50 hours]] I read here in an anti-Babiš journal that I will explain the statement about Syria, and my colleague, Mrs Černochová, here says that I am actually completely out of my mind and that I do not understand anything. So here I will read to you the part of President Erdogan's speech at the UN General Assembly in 2017, where he calls on all landscapes and international organisations to help him with 3.2 million refugees who are in Turkey. Europe has failed completely in migration, by the way it has failed now, but I will get to that, because we have not actually been able to solve migration, we have not been able to defeat smugglers, we have not been able to stop the flow of migrants from Syria at the time of 2015, and we have resolved this by agreeing with Turkey to give it EUR 6 billion. In this speech, President Erdogan says he's only got EUR 820 million and it's already cost him $30 billion, the refugee stay. So this is the year 2017. Now, please, Mrs. Černochová, concentrate on President Erdogan's speech... [[Note to the messenger. Black guys.]] I'm sorry, but I can address you directly, they said once. But I can through. When 24. 9. and this is Tuesday, the UN General Assembly began. Trumpa was waiting, and then President Erdogan stepped out. What's he saying? Our talks with the United States to create a security zone in Syria continue. We aim to create a peace corridor with a depth of 30 kilometers and a length of 480 kilometers, which will provide two million Syřan with the support of the international community, and if the depth of this zone were extended up to Dajr az-Zaur - Rakka line, it will increase to 3 million, says President Erdogan 24. 9. 2019 Tuesday afternoon. So I don't know if the MP understood that there was going to be any action. I didn't get it. And who understood that? I mean, the whole world heard it, this speech he gave! The whole world heard it! We are determined on this matter, we have already started necessary preparations. We are determined and prepared. I met President Erdogan, we had a reception on Tuesday night. Mr. Trump, he didn't have much time for us, he didn't have much time for any of us, so we said a few words. I asked him why he didn't talk about Europe, why he promised Johnson a great deal, and we didn't, and on Wednesday I had a meeting with President Erdogan, and I asked him, and here in the paper, of course, I read that Ivan Gabal -- actually, what I took. Well, I'll read you the minutes of the meeting that made the protocol at the Office of the Government. Mr. Ambassador Kmoníček was there. AB opened the topic called. safe zone in northern Syria, which also discussed during the meeting in early September, and said that they spoke at the V4 summit plus the Western Balkans in Prague, it was 12 September, and that V4 was interested in the project to talk, and a good opportunity would be to visit President Erdogan in Budapest in November. By the way, the Hungarian government has G to G with Turkey, so they have a joint government meeting on 7 November. AB, it's me, wants to further analyse the project with experts on the region and migration. [[Laughing in plenary]] I want to further analyse the project. Because President Erdogan told me that the zone - I'm asking him, okay, but if you're gonna do it, everyone's gonna say you're gonna be an aggressor, and I'm saying why can't the European Union do it? Build those apartments, houses, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, that we as the EU would do it, that it would be under control, they wouldn't trust you very much. So AB wants to further analyse the project with region experts and migration experts. On migration, President Erdogan added that Turkey has already spent $14 billion to help refugees, while only €3 billion from the promised 6 billion has so far been received from the EU. And now beware - he pointed out that EU money is not going into the Turkish budget, but to non-profit organizations. In response to the question, President Erdogan summed up his idea of a safe zone. It should reach about 30 kilometers inland of Syria and accommodate about two million people who will be accommodated in houses with a garden suitable for growing agricultural crops. It would be the food self-sufficiency zone that would be different from refugee camps. Schools and hospitals could also be built here in order to provide basic services for residents. About the migration question, because I asked him how he was doing, we were all in New York for four or five days, all of us, if he had already talked about it. And President Erdogan says: I spoke with German Chancellor Merkelová, Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Giusepp Cont, about the issue of refugee camps also with UN Secretary General Guterres. And I asked him, "Have you spoken to President Trump yet?" And he says, "No, I'm waiting for a deadline, and if I don't get it, I'll be back. As far as I know, he didn't even get it. As I ended up with President Erdogan, President Macron arrived. France, a member of the UN Security Council, we all know that. So I'm going back to my meeting in Ankara on September 2-4, 2019, because Mr. Gabal here is concerned that... What did he say here? That document that co-responsible for the outbreak of war and all that nonsense. Those are the minutes that make the protocol. The ambassadors are there. So, of course, I went to Turkey why? Especially because of Adulary, that's your inheritance, or we inherited it from you, 12 billion in the wind of the budget, and because we have two people in prison. Those were the main topics of my journey. And, of course, economic missions. Here's the minutes from the meeting in Ankara. President Erdogan continued on the subject of migration. Turkey is holding migrants for Europe's peace, which is unable to agree on quotas. Europe has been experiencing a calm period for the last five years, while Turkey is actively addressing the situation. President Erdogan also appreciated the importance of the V4 and expressed the hope of joint Turkish-Czech projects. He then pointed to Turkey's sensitive theme of moving the embassy to Jerusalem, etc. Subsequently, AB, I was talking here, of course, mainly about economic matters, focused on the topic of migration. He appreciated Turkey's plan to invest in the buffer zone in northern Syria, as everyone did, as the United States has dealt with it for a long time. By the way, on October 26, 2018, it was Friday, Mrs Merkelová was here, I was with Emmanuel Macron last night, and on Saturday, October 27, both of them flew from Prague to Istanbul to meet with President Putin and Erdogan - 2018. So what did they solve? I never knew what they'd done here. [[19.00 hours]] So I appreciated the plan to build apartments and infrastructure. I never thought what happened would happen in my life. Never in my life. Build apartments, infrastructure so people can come back. According to AB, Europe is not united in its approach to Syria, but according to the Prime Minister, Marshallův's plan for Syria would be the best solution. AB announced a demographic summit in Budapest after returning from Turkey, where he will negotiate with premieres Viktor Orbán and Peter Pellegrini and President Vučič. So he can also discuss with them the issues mentioned during his visit to Turkey. So what exactly was the European Union doing in terms of diplomacy? We've got the Mr. High-rep, Mrs. Mogherini. Now, of course, everything's gotten complicated. As a foreign policy of the European Union, it does not exist de facto. Everyone does what they want. When Heiko Maas was here, I ask him - it's great that President Macron will talk to Putin and the Zelenský and deal with Ukraine and Russia. And they say, well, we didn't know about it. So, yes, I am sorry and I am concerned about the safety of our people, the security of Europe and the inability of Europe to address migration. Solve migration. Well, of course we were all in New York. I don't understand why nobody cared. It's actually what the President said here. Of course he didn't tell anyone - and you can't tell me that I'm a complete fool, that it was obvious. It wasn't clear. I said yes, you don't do it, Europe should do it. Well, of course, we can have fun about how it all went down. 9. Unfortunately, it happened. 10. 10th UN Security Council is in session. And the permanent members of the UN Security Council of Britain, France, Germany, Belgium and Poland - i.e. now elected members of the Council - called on Turkey to stop the unilateral military operation. Five European states have also warned that the restoration of fighting will lead to further undermining the stability of the entire region and endangering civilians' lives. Well, then why -- the United States is our ally. So how did we negotiate this? And now, of course, Johnson has other concerns. But I'll ask President Macron what they negotiated. Why did the United States and Russia give the veto? Why didn't we convince the Security Council to stop the aggression immediately? Why didn't anyone fly in? And now I'm going to read to you what NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg 9 said. 10th in Rome. I sat with him at the table. Mike Pompeo was there, New York, everybody was fine. Nobody had time to worry about the situation in Turkey. They've been there for five days. A US ally Turkey is far front of crisis. Has legit security concern about Syria. And Turkey suffered huge terrorist attacks and actually accepted millions of Syrian refugees. I don't know if it's an aggressive state. Why didn't NATO meet right away? I asked our services, no one had any information, no one told us anything. The United States has decided to withdraw the troops, which, of course, in my opinion, is a mistake. And maybe we could have had it from Europe, allegedly, but I did not see that in the past, the United States was offering European members of the UN Security Council to send their representatives there as well. But that didn't work out. So today we're in a situation - yes, it's unacceptable. I'm afraid the operation's still going on. Individual states - we can already see how this Europe works. Everyone said something, everyone called for something instead of - yes, the statement was unified. But about, for example, arms exports... So interesting is the statement of the head of German diplomacy Heiko Maas from 15 October. What's that? That's today, isn't it? The head of German diplomacy Heiko Maas is restrained from economic sanctions. It is important that we have a dialogue with Turkey so that we can influence them. Well, the Minister discovered Amerika. The chancellor was already there in October 2018. And I was one of the few European prime ministers who talked about it in New York. I spoke to Charles Michel, Prime Minister of Belgium last night. And I say, have you spoken to Erdogan? We have to deal with this. There was a Luxembourg Prime Minister, there were other Irish Prime Minister and Maltese Prime Minister. And we were talking about finally having to sort out the migration system in some way. Yes, because, of course, threatening Europe with migrants is wrong. That's wrong. So Europe has huge problems, and it has proven completely incapable of action again. It's a crisis! Someone should have jumped on a plane, gone there immediately! And again, I'll ask the questions. You ask me, I'll ask. Because France is a permanent member of the UN Security Council. And of course, Germany and other countries are now temporarily there. So it's a disaster. Europe has a lot of problems, even if it looks like the Brexit will end. But the Great Britain is leaving, unfortunately. The United States, the trade agreement is not working, we have a lot of problems, we see how the new parliament works. We have seen the revenge of individual political factions on France's candidate for commissioner. That's probably revenge for the spittzencandidate, or I don't know how to read it, that's never happened before. So now we don't know if the new Commission is going to be or if there isn't going to be a new komise. So it's a big problem. And we actually came up with this, V4 - I discussed it with V4, with the premieres. The fact that President Čaputová has an opinion, that's fine. But I'm talking not to the presidents, I'm talking to the premieres. And at first glance, who wouldn't want those people to go home to Syria and live in peace and quiet. Perhaps even the 700,000 refugees who are illegally in Europe and have not received asylum could return to the future. And it's on its way. By the way, I was also in New York dealing with the U.S. Attorney on Syria, Jeffrey. I've dealt with Syria's Foreign Minister because we need to talk to Syria, too. I'm engaged. Well, here at home, of course, it's always for the good of the beggar. Instead of appreciating that the Czech Republic has engaged, I am, of course, the subject of criticism. But, of course, that's normal. So I just want to say it's a problem. By the way, not only is there a problem with Turkey now, but also the Western Balkans, where we promised mountains of mines. Madam Chancellor, Mr. President Macron. Change name, constitution, referendum, everything. And once again, I have signals that we are unable - or France doesn't want to, it doesn't want to start talking to the North Macedonia and Albania at all. Just start conversations that can take fifteen, twenty, thirty years. We can't even do that. And they promised, that's the problem. And the Erdogan promised a lot of things. Then what will happen to the Western Balkans? When we performed at the European Council, nine countries supported, especially North Macedonia, so it was said that the German Bundestag had not yet decided. So now he's made his decision, but now we have other states to prevent it. [[19.10 hours]] So that's how the European Union, the European Commission, the Council, works, and that's what I'm talking about. Because we want to get involved. We want to deal with this, yes. The European Union is not just Germany and France and the President of the Commission. I think the new Commission will be much better. And it is important for us, because we are part of Europe, we have to fight to make Europe united, to solve the problems. And of course I can see it. Who's the closest one today? So who would negotiate the deal with America? Who's the greatest ally? No Poland and Ireland. And so if President Macron negotiates with Mrs Merkelová, with the President of Ukraine's problem with Russia, fine. But we're talking about it - and I was involved in Turkey, too, and it turned out the way it did, because there was no interest in New York. All we had in New York was a climate. Climate change. From morning to evening. Climate change. As if Europe had no other problems, only the climate. The Czech Republic is one of the few that fills the climate. People are demonstrating here, I don't know where everywhere. They're stopping traffic. Let them come. Brabec, Toman and I, we're gonna go with them. We'll explain to them what we're doing. So Europe is climate, we have a green parliament. Unfortunately, even in Austria, there will be greenery everywhere. And, of course, when you spoke about the Presidency - I, Mr Rakušan, voted in favour. I wanted to explain to you how much money is being wasted at the State Department. And now we have the subject - the Presidency, the energy. Core and internal market. That'll be our theme. And of course, I don't want to keep you here, I'm full here - I can show you how much structures cost us. How many people are in charge of Europe in foreign affairs, in the Office of the Government, in Brussels. How much is it costing us? Hundreds of millions today. So I understand that colleagues don't want to save money, but they have to. But that's not the subject. I like... I'm sure you'll interpel me. Or if you want to go to that meeting, I don't have a problem with it. So I just want to say that I'm glad I could get off here, that I could say... By the way, those countries that have therefore declared the embargo, Germany has also stopped France from exporting weapons to Turkey, so weapons supplies to Turkey in 2018 amounted to EUR 240 million, which is 6.27 billion. That's one third of all German military exports. One-third. In the first months of this year, Berlin sold Ankara arms worth EUR 184 million, which is CZK 4.7 billion, making Turkey the largest arms buyer for Germany. And from the V4 we're the only ones who stopped the exports, of course it's some kind of gesture, I understand. But I'm afraid for us to stop what's going on, so instead of someone actually dealing with it right now, to meet like NATO, that's our... That's actually according to NATO, that's our ally. I was talking about it today that maybe after 70 years, we should read what's in there. Whatever it is. What is the security of Europe? I never wanted a European army. But Canada and the United States and Turkey probably have other problems like the European NATO Member States. And I already asked in August 2015 when millions of refugees were coming, that what we had NATO for if we didn't attack those smugglers who made 6 billion euros. So we did Sofia operation, there I was, which is composed from countries other than NATO. Austria is there, too, and that's good. But we should finally think about Europe's security. Because, in short, NATO has rules like the EU. I guess that's what I'm thinking. No one thought about it if, for example, this happened. There's some article 5, I don't even want to read it. So I just wanted to explain to you that the criticism that came down on my head is unfair, that I've never, ever dreamed that it could turn out like this, that President Erdogan has been talking about this zone since 2017. Here he said, a few weeks ago, that we are not a member of the UN Security Council, that there are European countries there to deal with it. That Europe is inaction. Yes, before it all happened. Instead of immediately, it's a crisis to deal with it immediately, that's not what happened. And unfortunately, it will have a major impact on us, as it seems. So I guess it's all for me. I, of course, am going to the Committee on European Affairs tomorrow to discuss the mandate. And sure, you're asking me, I'll ask those who have the paper to be action. I tried. I tried. He wasn't interested in New York. And, of course, what happened is an absolute disaster. And now it's about actually quitting. To stop people dying because it's horrible. And of course we will continue to do this, we will try and call our colleagues in Europe - so let us also act when you were unable to negotiate it. I did not have a European mandate - neither the Council nor the Commission. I did it because I went to Turkey to do other things, and I am of course interested in that view. And so I studied it all. And I hope I gave you a slightly different picture of how it all looks. Although I repeat, this aggression is unacceptable, it needs to be stopped immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u8	There. I am now opening a general debate in which I am the first to sign up with Mr Karel Schwarzenberg's priority right. I'll read two apologies before the MP runs out. Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar apologizes from 19:00 until the end of the day due to urgent work obligations within the Ministry of Defence department, Josef Hájek apologizes between 19:00 and 23:00 due to negotiations. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u9	Mr President, honourable Members. To begin with, I would say that, exceptionally, I have to commend our government, because it has responded correctly. She immediately banned arms exports to Turkey and made clear the Turkish invasion of Syria. It's an incredibly powerful violation of international law. For Turkey has entered Syrian territory and is openly saying that it wants to occupy a belt between 30 and 40 kilometers wide, and the people there are mostly Kurd, that is true, from there push out and replace them with Syrian refugees from Turkey. If that's how people can be persuaded to go into the war zone, I'm not convinced. But the intentions are clear. There are only internal political reasons for all of this. [[19.20 hours]] Turkey has a very strong Kurdish minority. The Kurds are all over the Middle East, in Iran, in Syria, in Iraq, in Russia, in the Caucasus, they are really spread throughout... It's a nation about as big as Polish, about 35 million. That's how many Kurd. But they're unfortunately divided. Unfortunately, during the twentieth century, they were betrayed from all sides. But what is happening now is particularly heinous, because they joined our side when we fought - that is, we Čech least, but let's say the West - against the Islamic State and Islamic terrorism. Those were the Kurd who, to be honest, were responsible for the war. Because Američan and others supplied weapons. They supplied men and women who fought and fell! And they were called allies. The Islamic state is defeated, many of their fighters who were prisoners of the Kurd, yet suddenly the Američan were abandoned. And European states didn't care much for them. What development will be, I don't know. The only thing I know is that a state like the Czech Republic that experienced Munich 80 years ago, which was just as much a story that the superpower requested part of our territory and simply marched in with the silent consent of the other powers and our former allies. That's what just happened to the Kurd. And that this is a warning example for every small country that we have to stick together in such situations that it does not become a habit everywhere. Today, the task of the Czech Republic is to stand on the side of the Kurd and help them as much as possible, as they experience what our fathers and grandfathers experienced 80 years ago. And let's face it, they've behaved perfectly over the last few years at the Middle East. They're big fighters, that's well known, and they were tough fighters, but their greatest allies would swoop in their backs, they probably didn't expect that. Czech attitudes must be clear. On the side of those who are being attacked, on the side of those who are being pushed out of their traditional territories, which is the whole task of this operation, to kick the Kurd out of border areas and to establish any other population that would not be related to Kurd in Turkey. With the suppression or defeat of Kurd in northern Syria, Turkey's problem will not cease, as it is a problem of Turkish state behaviour to its Kurdish minority, which, unfortunately, has always been precisely such as to cause as much hostility as possible over recent decades with small light moments. Turkey is still betting that it can handle this militaryly. It's gonna be hard, and I mean impossible. For a while, the uprising can be suppressed, but the army can barely pull away, it will rise again, and the Kurd will not be able to do it after about a hundred years. So we can only persuade Turkey to solve the fundamental problem of this whole tragedy, namely its relationship with its own Kurdish minority, because the attack on Syria is just the fruit of an unfortunate policy against its own Kurdish minority. We have to realize that. Thus, according to Jacob Burckhardt's famous rule, Turkey does not appear to be a strong state, which President Tayyip Erdogan certainly thinks is Turkey's new power. But in his glorious history, Jacob Burckhardt wrote to Cardinal Richelieu: Strong states determine their internal policy by foreign policy. Weak states foreign policy internal policy. And unfortunately, even this attack on Syria is nothing more than an expression of Turkey's internal weakness, failing to cope with its own minority problem. We can't blame them. We have also failed to cope with our minority problems in the past. Let us be humble in this and take the situation as it is. One thing's for sure. If we do not want this despicable example to cause even greater damage in the world, then let us express it with the solidarity of all nations, all states, and smaller states that do not have power interests in Turkey or Syria, they can help create the pressure of the United Nations, the European Union, but also NATO, of which Turkey is certainly a member to put this attack on hold. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving time to the Kurdish question. It is very important to me because I have often dealt with the Kurd, and I must say that I have had great respect for them, because as they carried the tragic fate of their nation in the 20th and 21st centuries, they have great respect and I greatly appreciate the warriors - even the warriors. We must not forget that there were Kurdish troops who fought against the Islamic State, that they were purely female troops. I appreciate their sacrifices, and today we should try to repay them in any way we can. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u10	So now... [[Applause lasts.]] Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for business reasons until the end of the day. I want to ask - with priority rights, I have Mr. Vice-President Filip, but President Bartoš was a little earlier to be fair. But you originally said that after Mrs. Černochová, I don't know what you agreed. [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Now they're the priority rights. If you were logged in a little earlier than Vice-President Filip. You originally told me that after Mrs. Černochová, but in that case, I don't know what you agreed. If you want to go now, you can go now... [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Yes, the deal was one for each side. But now I'm dealing with priority rights. By the size of the parties, there was a deal. In that case, you'd have priority rights, but if there was such a deal. If there's a deal we're gonna go according to the size of the clubs, regardless of the priority rights. Am I getting this right? So, Vice-President, I apologize to you, and now, Mr Bžoch, in that case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u11	Thanks for the word, I feel like the biggest of the biggest. Ladies and gentlemen, in advance I would like to thank everyone across the political spectrum that we have managed to put together the House resolution, on which we have all agreed. The aim of the resolution is, of course, to condemn Turkish aggression against Syria, towards the Kurd. It is also necessary to condemn the atrocities that are now taking place on Syria's territory, see the killing of a politician. Next thing. It is also with the House, and it is a good thing that it is in this resolution, that it must compensate against any threats, whatever the state is. In this case, it is from Turkey, which threatens us, as the European Union, to make way for migrants. I want to thank once again that we have the resolution, that we have all agreed on it, and that is all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u12	I will now request a performance by Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor. And Mr. Ivan Bartoš will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u13	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to respond at the beginning of my speech to the absent Prime Minister. Yes, a number of us, after learning about the Prime Minister's change of attitude, we welcomed it. On the other hand, I might take back the word that the Prime Minister didn't understand something and replaced it with words that he probably didn't know. On the other hand, admit it yourself if there's a picture on the Prime Minister's Twitter account where he shakes hands with Mr. Erdogan, and there's a text of this type, so what could we possibly think about it? "For the second time in two days, I saw the Turkish President - the driver and so on - and confirmed to him that the V4 countries support the construction of the security zone in northern Syria. Turkey wants to move up to 2 million refugees into it. Build houses, schools. Erdogan will meet President Trump in New York for this." Just when one of us reads this and compares it to what happened there, it affects us so that maybe the Prime Minister thought something, and now the situation is different. But on the other hand, it's understandable that if the Prime Minister didn't explain it, he explained it here to us today, so that we could think something, because it really did today, for example, when I was looking at the Prime Minister's speech on the General Staff, where the anniversary of the General Staff was celebrated, yes, it was understood there. But comparing the information before and then, it's a little limpy. And it's not the first time we've seen the Prime Minister say anything, then he takes the words back, and it's different. If he took those words back, respectively. If he explained that he did not really speak for the V4 countries that support Turkey's invasion of Syria, that was explained. But of course, each of us didn't have the information that we just heard from the Prime Minister here before. Maybe you had them at the Yes Club, but we certainly didn't. And the press didn't have them either, because actually the journalists who asked the Prime Minister didn't even hear what was said here today. But back to the situation. We are witnessing an unprecedented arbitrary process by one of the Member States of the North Atlantic community, which resorted to an attack on another state in order to exploit its weakening and very difficult situation in the region and to meet its own geopolitical objectives. I believe that the invasion of the Turkish army in Syrian territory cannot be justified by any of the arguments that President Erdogan's regime is objecting. This action will certainly bring neither greater security nor greater stability in this region, on the contrary. Only in the past few days can we see that thousands of civilian casualties, crimes against humanity, and other sufferings of people in an area that has been plagued by internal conflicts and war with extremists for many years. In addition, the events of the past days have had even more serious connotations and consequences, including the risk of further destabilisation of this area, the re-enhancing of the positions of Islamist terrorists, other waves of uncontrolled migration and the disruption of Syria. Last but not least, the risk to our own interests is perhaps the strongest, and this is the loss of the credibility of the North Atlantic Alliance, which is one of the major guarantors of world security, and the clearing of space by other powers that threaten this security. I am convinced, and I believe that so do many of you, that this is a development that we must not allow and that we must not stand idly by. We cannot allow ourselves to be blackmailed by the Turkish regime in the sense of "either you all close your eyes and let us fulfill our own interests, or we will open the floodgate of migration." We may be taught by history enough that concessions to such extortion do not lead anywhere, and that in the end these concessions will not do any good, and it will only be a delay of greater problems. I consider the United States' decision to clear the area in the north of Syria and release Erdogan's hands to be a huge mistake, which to some extent has thwarted the efforts of the last few years to defeat the Islamic State, the so-called Islamic State. This step means losing the trust of the Kurdish minority as one of the few allies the West has in the fight against terrorism in the Middle East and effectively betraying them. It is our duty, as NATO and EU Member States, to make a loud announcement in this and to make maximum efforts in the international field, to correct this error as far as possible and to eliminate the unfortunate consequences. I consider Turkey's invasion to be an unprecedented violation of the Washington Convention, which I, like the Prime Minister, have read. Indeed, this Washington Convention in Article 1 obliges NATO Member States to settle their disputes by means of peaceful means so as not to endanger international peace, security and justice, and to abstain in their international relations from threats by force or use of force in any way incompatible with the UN's objectives. Pursuant to Article 4, Member States should then consult jointly on cases where, in the opinion of any of them, their territorial integrity, political independence or security will be threatened. It is quite clear that neither of these commitments has been fulfilled in this case. That is why I believe that the situation needs to be addressed not only at European Union level, but in this regard I welcome the Member States' decisions on the embargo on the import of weapons into Turkey, to which the Czech Republic has joined, and at the same time I say the hope that the Czech Republic will not be alone in this, as it has happened several times in the past, when we have actually cleared those positions and the Němec or the Francouz have come after us. I am pleased that this matter will, I suppose, also be addressed at NATO level so as to eliminate other and other risks that can cause a loss of credibility and, indeed, our other actionability. In addition to the resolution we have here, I would therefore like to call on the Government of the Czech Republic, ladies and gentlemen, and I am sorry that the Prime Minister does not hear this, so that it is active not only in the field of the European Council, where I strongly support another logical step, which must be imposed sanctions, but also at the level of the North Atlantic Alliance. In fact, if NATO resigns to upholding its own principles, it will mean weakening its influence and a blank check for further future violations that we must never, ever, ever allow for our own sake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u14	I will now ask the President of the Pirate Party, Mr Ivan Bartoš, to speak, and the President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u15	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the fact that this point was agreed on this morning on the Gremium that this item will be included in the meeting and that we will also have the opportunity to hear, for example, the Prime Minister and then, as the House, which has a clear and uniform position in a number of matters, to agree on the position of the Chamber of Deputies towards Turkish aggression in the north of Syria. Even before I say gros my contribution to this subject - perhaps if the Prime Minister had not spoken here and let the House approve those consensual statements, he would have done better. From my previous speaker, Mr Schwarzenberg, there were words of humility that we, as a small nation, should be humble in the assessment of some things. I expected that if the Prime Minister made a diplomatic mistake 14 days ago - and I wouldn't call this another way - it was a diplomatic mistake, it was the result of the self-protective policy that his network managers are making, when he takes a picture here with one dictator, the other dictator, it just happened. It was a diplomatic error on social networks, which then spread to other media, so I assumed that it would recognize that mistake. [[19.40 hours]] I'm a little scared, and that's about it, if foreign politicians, our partners, sometimes even selfies, but especially the actors of these negotiations let the prime minister translate speeches in the field of the Chamber of Deputies, they have to be caught by the hair. Not because of what sounds factually, but when Mr Babiš, during his speech, vilified virtually all the greatest European and foreign policies, where he did not recognise his stupid error in social media, while everyone else was to blame. We can take it in the domestic politics of the Pirates, the guilt of someone else, the guilt of the Senate, the guilt of the ODS, the guilt of the previous governments, the guilt of the coalition partners. But I think that for domestic profits, domestic PR maybe the record here on the camera should be treated by the Prime Minister respectfully to the partners with whom he otherwise enters into negotiations. And I'm sorry. So I took the liberty of responding to the Prime Minister's speech, which was said here, and then the Prime Minister left. I would like to say a few things about the situation in northern Syria in Kurdistan. We are really talking about Turkish aggression in northern Syria today. And it's not the first such aggression. The Prime Minister here spoke of how he was the only one who handled these things. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, at the request of President ODS Fiala, we met with Prime Minister Babiš, representatives of parties in the House, and we discussed the direction of Czech foreign policy. It was in 2018 and at that time a smaller but similar action took place in Turkey in the northern part of Syria under the name Olive branch. There were demonstrations in Prague for Afrin. I had the opportunity to participate, but I delivered a letter to the Prime Minister and asked him if he would somehow raise the position of the Czech Republic in this regard in the European Parliament, get it on the ground of the European Union and debate this, because it was one of Turkey's outbursts in the region of northern Syria against the Kurdish population, against the IPG, which in the war with the so-called. The Islamic state played an important role in the allies. I do not know how this letter turned out, whether it was incorporated in the records, but I did not notice that the Czech Republic would play an active role in this issue of the Kurdish minority in Syria. And now we have the cut, and it's 2019, it's a year after that. The Prime Minister was at a meeting in New York, and my previous speaker, Mrs Černochová, has quoted that passage from Facebook through the President. Prime Minister Babiš, or his PR team, supported President Erdogan's plan to occupy northern Syria. I did not notice when I saw the reaction of Czech politicians that the Prime Minister would somehow pre-negotiate this step at the meeting with the Foreign Minister or that he would have a mandate for this meeting if he did not pick it up, which is what we are experiencing here in the Chamber of Deputies, sometimes someone will take a mandate and deal with something. And the fact that it was a clear cover, that performance by Erdogan, an alibi cover to actually move the Turkish army to the northern Syria area, was quite clear. Politicians, diplomacy experts, spoke this way from the first moment. If it was not clear to the Prime Minister at the time, which he confirmed here that he was wrong or that he was appalled at the way this is going, perhaps he should consult with experts on foreign policy so that his foreign policy, like sometimes presidential, would not deviate from the official policy of the Czech Republic. There is an important factor, which we have also pointed out in response to this speech, namely that this plan for the peace zone, which de facto exists in the area, is precisely the territory controlled by the Kurds, is contrary to international law, the relocation of residents on the occupied territory is prohibited by international humanitarian law. And this has also been expressed as a response to the presentation by President Erdogan, to which the Prime Minister has applied. I consider these steps to be a fundamental failure of Czech foreign policy, which is multi-track. We have a foreign policy that is defined here, and it is made up of the government as a whole, and unfortunately, our Prime Minister and sometimes the President are acting against the official policy of the Czech Republic. We have a lot to turn to our partners in the V4 who have also said in turn that they do not agree with this statement and there was no agreement on anything like that in the V4. I welcome the fact that during that week, the Czech Government, in spite of such, say, a more lukewarm statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the beginning and a rather lukewarm statement by the Minister of Industry and Trade, when he said that Turkey did not know how we would do it, with the export, that eventually the government took a united position and actually decided that the Czech Republic, like the Western partners in Europe or the Nordic countries, would stop exporting arms to Turkey. I consider it very important that the Czech Republic join the debate on policy-economic measures as quickly as possible. I am not saying on purpose about sanctions against Turkey, which will lead - and it is the only diplomatic and economic way - to end Turkish aggression against the Kurd. So the government itself has a clear position at the moment, and I would like to ask this honourable House to also speak unitedly and join the Czech Republic with its approved opinions and strengthen the position of the Czech Republic towards this Turkish aggression. And at the end of my speech, I would like to ask you - we have begun today with a minute's silence - if we could not, and it probably depends on Mr President at the moment, if we could not, even after the vote, when we will vote on the various consensual positions of the Chamber of Deputies, end with a minute's silence for Kurdish opposition politician Hevrin Chalafová, who was raped and killed in this unfortunate Turkish operation in the north of Syria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u16	Thank you. Then I'll look into the hall and ask if any of the members of the MPs have anything against the proposal, so I think we can sort it out. If there's no counterproposal, I don't think there's anything stopping it. Now President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip will probably prepare Mr Ondřej Veselý, because we are going according to the size of the clubs, then only Mr Ondřej Benešík. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u17	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I want to be consensual, and therefore I will not make a broad comment about my previous speaker who is disrupting a unified international policy here, and I will not remember the mayor of the capital of Prague who is unable to respect Czech foreign policy or government or parliamentary and represented self-government. I don't want to repeat what was said here. This is a fundamental violation of international law, that has been said here, and we must insist. That is what I think is part of our consensus in the Chamber of Deputies. That this is a violation of international war law, there's no doubt about it either, because it's about civilian targets. There is no doubt that this is a violation of international humanitarian law. Therefore, it is appropriate that the Government has adopted a resolution to this effect. There is also no doubt about what Mrs Černochová said here that this is a total failure of NATO, not merely a violation of the founding articles. But the point is, essentially, the United States of America slammed a wedge between the United States and Europe, precisely by retreating from Turkey and letting another sovereign state in their own way without resistance. The Syrian Arab Republic is a sovereign state, it is a UN state, and it is thrown into chaos by someone who implanted it in 2011. And the fact that after the great peripetia and with the help of the international community, the conflict has not been resolved does not mean that the chaos and the turmoil of war cannot begin again. [[19.50 hours]] What, too, cannot be questioned? There is no question that the territory does not belong to Turkey and that it is not possible to decide on another state by sending soldiers there. But what is also important - I will not call President Erdogan or other statesmen whether they are Democrats or dictators, because I respect Article 1 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, declared as No. 120/1976 Coll., this means that every nation, every state has the right to its own political regime and to its own use of natural resources. That is why I will only talk about what is contrary to international law. And I believe it is our duty to contribute to the return of the principle of international law. That is why I am pleased that in this consensual resolution there is a request for the Government of the Czech Republic to negotiate with those who in the Security Council can decide that diplomatic negotiations will start instead of war. I know this is very difficult, and I am convinced that there are several ways in which the international community and the sole authoritarian body, the UN Security Council, can decide how these negotiations will go and where. There is already a proven centre of Eurasia, this is Nur-Sultan, the former Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan, where the negotiations have already been repeated. Of course, it would be best to start in New York, directly on UN soil, and I would like the Czech Republic to be active in this both at the European Council meetings and in the other bodies in which we are meeting. What fills me with concern? It is the unwillingness of some permanent members of the Security Council to deal with this problem for the benefit of nations on the principle of the right of nations to self-determination. I have said this several times here in the House of Deputies. Kurdish autonomy, Kurdish state was to arise after World War I, after World War II, and never arose. So let us not be surprised at the desire of the Kurd to create at least the conditions for the creation of their own state. The autonomy that arises there does not only threaten Turkey in negotiations, but, of course, it concerns both Iraq and Syria. Of course, this applies to Iran as well. And in this respect, it is necessary to invite these states to act in such a way that the Security Council would organise. I am very upset when the representatives of Parliament are condemned for carrying out a project that citizens of the state want them to do. I mean the judgments of the Spanish courts over the representatives of Catalonia. I don't think it shows any good. I cried Czechoslovakia as my own state, but I respected the fact that the Čech and Slovák were able to find enough strength in themselves to overcome internal contradictions and even find enough strength to choose a common approach to continue dealing with their neighbours, how to continue acting in the international community, and how to even decide at one point how to work together in the European Union. We are an example, and we can give the example in an international forum. Let me conclude: I do not want to raise a conflict, I do not want us to participate in sending the Czech Army in favour of our coalition partner, the Turkish army, to suppress the Kurd in Syria at any request of Turkey. I would have to reject this and, with reference to Article 43 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, at such a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, express my fundamental opposition, even though I knew for many that this would be a violation of our commitment to the North Atlantic Treaty. But I'm saying this out loud here to see how absurd the United States of America has put us in Syria. It's the second total failure of this treaty. The first was to protect Europe's external borders when they said it was not their business, and when it was not manageable, they did not come up with any proposal that would be acceptable to Europe. I believe that the Czech Republic, the Czech diplomacy, must make every effort to enable our actions, our position in the UN, in the European Union and in NATO, to give our vote in favour of diplomatic negotiations against military aggression. Let me make one final point. I believe that negotiations are more than weapons. I am convinced that our vote as the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is even more authoritarian than just the voice of the government, because it is the voice of all those who voted on this minimum consensus that we want to accede to. It is therefore a matter that is in the interests of all citizens of the Czech Republic, and I say this for our voters. Those who will vote in favour of this resolution, I will say that for my constituents. And that will be the power that the Czech government will have behind it. So not only the coalition, not only those who tolerate it, but also those who oppose it. Because this is an important message for the international community. I hope that we will always be able to find that consensus when it comes to such a serious matter that threatens the highest security risk for the Czech Republic. I am not saying for the European Union, but for the Czech Republic. Because here we have to defend our interest in those who have not yet found as much strength as we do. I thank all those who will vote in favour of this consensual resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u18	Now I have one point of fact, so Mr. Jiří Kobza, please, your two minutes. And Mr. Ondřej Veselý will prepare himself. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to supplement and respond to my previous speakers. What didn't come out here is that we have our share of guilt in what's going on in Turkey. Why? The Turkish army has operated with impunity in foreign states for years, especially in northern Iraq, without encountering any opposition or opposition from the European Union or powers. Munich and our loss to Sudeten were mentioned here. I would like to add that we should not forget the 100-year-old Armén genocide that took place in Turkey. And apparently, we have a very realistic view of other ethnic cleansings that will take place in the belt we were talking about in the strip on northern Syria. I thank President Filip, through Mr President, for finally mentioning here the real danger that this represents to us. And I would very much like to call on the Government of the Czech Republic to start preparing measures to face the migration wave that is likely to come. Above all, how to face the aggravated security situation that this migration wave will bring. Because let us not forget that apart from roughly three million migrants in Turkey, there are also 20,000 jihadists who are being held by the Kurd and who, according to their statements, no longer have the capacity to guard. The danger is too real to be ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u20	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I will now ask Mr Ondřej Veselý to speak with a representative of the ČSSD MEP and prepare a representative of the KDU-ČSL MEP, Mr Ondřej Benešík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think I'll be more brief than my colleagues. I am merely saying that if the situation in the north of Syria had not been so trivial and tragic, we could be actually happy today, because it is not often that we would find such a broad consensus in the Chamber of Deputies, and even so broad agreement between the Chamber of Deputies and the Government. There was a broad consensus on the resolution that we were able to prepare and which will be voted on, even I dare say, or dare I say, nine parliamentary clubs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also collaborated on it, so this is really the result of joint work, which is often not happening to us. Of course, we cannot be happy because what is happening in the north of Syria really goes beyond our imagination. Indeed, it is not only a flagrant violation of international law, but there is a clear question of the fact that humane principles are being violated there, there are openly murders of the population. Of course, the Syrian or Kurdish political representative is only the tip of the iceberg. There's a lot more murders out there. I am glad that we have agreed that what the Czech Government will do is a good step, a good direction, in the end that we agree on this, and I am also glad that we have agreed that it is not enough, that what is happening in the north of Turkey really cannot only end with a ban on arms exports, but we should also appeal to those sanctions being far deeper. And while no one can suspect me of being a russophile, if we have imposed extensive sanctions on Russia for what it has demonstrated in Crimea and carried out in the east of Ukraine, I am convinced that we really should appeal to the European Community so that, in a case that is at least from a humanitarian point of view far worse, it is equally harsh and progressed, even if it is a state that is conducting accession talks to the European Union, even though they are now essentially at a freezing point and even if it is a NATO Member State. I believe that the pressure will be great, that it will not slow down and that we can really, to the maximum extent possible, prevent the damage that is caused. It's mainly damage to human lives, it's really moving thousands, tens of thousands, maybe even millions of people, and it's totally unacceptable. And if we keep our mouths shut about this, it may happen to us, too, because history has often seen such things and I believe that we do not want to experience them again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u22	That was Mr. Veselý. I'll read two apologies. Mrs Kovářová apologizes from 19.30 pm to the end of the day... she has been excused, but is already present in the Chamber of Deputies. Sorry. And now, Mrs Helena Válková, today from 7:30 p.m. to the end of the day. I am now giving the floor to Mr Ondřej Benešík, representatives of KDU-ČSL, and Mr Vít Rakušan, representative of STAN, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u23	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. KDU-ČSL suggested that the Chamber of Deputies deal with the situation in Syria. We welcome the fact that this request has been heard and that the House has the opportunity to comment on this urgent subject. It is all the more urgent that the European Council is meeting this week, which will, of course, also address this issue. The European Union has very limited, almost no powers in the field of foreign and security policy. In these areas, Member States have retained their powers and the Union institutions may only act within the framework of a mandate to be defined by the Member States of the European Union. In establishing the mandate of the European Commission, the European Council shall have a crucial say. It is therefore a summit of the leaders of the countries of the European Union, at which we are represented by the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Thus, nobody but the government, and especially the Prime Minister, has a greater chance to influence the common position in foreign and security policy in the Czech Republic at European level. We have therefore proposed that the Prime Minister push for the concrete steps described in the motion for a resolution at the European Council meeting. This is a part of it: the Chamber of Deputies calls on Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to call on the European Council to make a proposal to the European Commission for economic and political measures aimed at forcing Turkey to stop military operations. KDU-ČSL honours the agreement, so it will not propose other parts to the resolution, which did not receive the support of most of the representatives of the other clubs during the meeting. Therefore, allow me to speak only on behalf of the KDU-ČSL. Members of the KDU-ČSL distance themselves from the support of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš of 24. 9. 2019 Turkish President Erdogan's plan to create a so-called security zone in the north of Syria by Turkey. The Prime Minister's support for this Turkish plan, as I understand it, was unfortunate and perhaps naive, but the Prime Minister or his advisors should have known that the creation of the so-called security zone in Turkey was equal to the armed conflict with the Kurd, with all the negative consequences, not only on the Kurdish ethnicity, but also on Europe, and also on the Czech Republic. And the Prime Minister here expressed his support in defending his support, who could have known at a time when he tweeted and posted photos with Erdogan on Facebook. Although I didn't normally plan on it, I'll read you a text that I sent to our foreign and security policy advisor after consulting my colleagues at the KDU-ČSL Club. I sent that text to 25. 9. at 7.47 hours, i.e. right after we found out what the Turkish President's speech was on UN soil. I hope it doesn't offend anyone. Quote: Would you look at the Turkish President's performance at the UN? He's designing a safe zone in Syria. It's pretty dirty with the Kurd. More shit than Greta right now, and nobody even notices. Maybe consult someone. It's not a dramatic rush. In this request to our foreign security expert, I would mention one thing, namely - it is not in a dramatic hurry. Personally, I think that if KDU-ČSL and its substantially, but significantly smaller background could have read this situation a few hours after the Turkish President's speech, as it is currently evolving in Syria, I am convinced that the Prime Minister and his enormous background and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could have known that too. [[raised voice]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr hnilička cancels his apology and is present at the hearing. In addition, a Member of the Rakušan is entered into the debate. Mr Volný Member will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many have been said here, and many of what I myself had prepared, so I will not repeat myself. However, I would also like to appreciate the consensus that has been achieved in the Chamber of Deputies today. We have proved that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we are able to find agreement on important issues of international policy, that we are able to find consensus in the environment of very different parties and movements that are meeting in the Chamber of Deputies in the Czech Republic. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those involved in the wording of the resolution. [[20.10 hours]] We're talking about this political situation here, about who should have done what, violated what article of the treaty, but I'd like to draw attention to the crucial thing that I feel here. Literally millions of people have found themselves in pure despair and inhospitable crazy living conditions. What really needs to be realized today is that in some part of the world people suffer, that in some part of the world there are crimes that we should not hesitate to call war crimes. And we should be a truly active member of the international community as the Czech Republic and stick to the good tradition of Czech and Czechoslovak foreign policy, which has long pointed out violations of human rights everywhere, our foreign policy, which has always been close to helping people and helping them in areas where people are affected. I have contacted many times today mentioned here and in the negative light of the non-profit organization Man in Need. And we need to realise that our citizens, our humanitarian workers are currently in this area, they are working, they will probably have to leave this area, but it would be good if our government and our political representation, our diplomacy were also thinking that these people deserve support, and we should also live up to what the Czech Republic is doing with a good name in order to be able to provide effective humanitarian aid to all suffering. We, as STAN, fully identify with all the items of the resolution on which the Chamber of Deputies will vote, but let me say one sentence after all. I am really sorry that we did not hear in the speech of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic just at the beginning the words that we probably all expected a little bit. This means some description and expression of the international political situation that occurred, expressing regret over the suffering people and expressing great solidarity with the Kurd who were good to us at the time when they helped us as an international community in the fight against the Islamic State. This has not happened here in the Chamber of Deputies. And I really think that we have witnessed a speech that simply was not worthy of the office of Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. It was a speech full of defending one's own person, but it was not a speech of a statesman who clearly and pregnantly defined what horror is taking place in contemporary Syria. I am sorry and I think that this is in a great contrast to the consensus reached today by the Chamber of Deputies and was able to achieve. I think the Prime Minister has missed a huge chance in his words to support this as the chief executive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u26	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Lubomír Volný is entered into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u27	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome the fact that the Presidents of all the Members' Clubs have gathered together and have drawn up a resolution with which we, too, have no major problem with the non-inclusion of Members who were not initially consulted. However, I intend to use my right as an unattached Member for the Unitary Movement to say that we are missing something in the resolution. There is no reason why the Turkish President must weep and weep that he has millions of Syrian refugees in his territory who cost him billions of dollars. It has not been said at all here today that the United States, which abandoned its Kurdish allies, was also illegally in Syria's territory. It has not been said at all here today that Turkey has supplied Islamist terrorists with weapons in the long term and systematically. Even in Turkey, journalists are condemned for giving this honest information. I think it's only going to be a good thing if we come together to realize what led us to this situation, and we tell the world that we know. I therefore propose to supplement our resolution on this text, which I will now read, and then I will read it: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that the current situation in Syria is triggered by illegitimate actions by many states, which have also supported extremist Islamist forces, which have tried to overthrow the legitimate Syrian government by terror. " Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u28	I ask, is anyone interested in speaking in the general debate at this time? I don't see anyone. I have a point of fact. Mr. Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see the seriousness of the situation, I also see the motion for a resolution, which is here, but I still cannot forgive myself for one comment. It may be good for people in the Czech Republic and elsewhere to realise not only the fate of the Kurdish nation and the issue of this region, that is, Kurd in Iraq, Iran, Syria and Turkey, but also that the Czech Republic is a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, and this alliance primarily says that mutual disputes should not be resolved by soldiers among themselves, but by member countries. One state of the North Atlantic Alliance has left a buffer zone and another state of the North Atlantic Alliance, although not officially under the flag of the North Atlantic Alliance, is committing aggression against a sovereign state. And I think that there is a very serious moment that should not be neglected either in the Chamber of Deputies or at the level of Czech diplomacy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u30	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And there is one more factual point. Chairman Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I've had a lot of desire to perform today, no later than after the Prime Minister's speech. I didn't do it because we have all the political parties represented in this House agreed that one person will perform for each club. And this is all about the Communists breaking the deal. So please, next time don't agree to the deal that we all agreed not to put the rest of us at a disadvantage. Again, I had many times the desire to come out and correct the things that were said here, but I did not. And you did, and you broke the deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u32	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is in the general debate. At this point, I see no one. I am done with the general debate. Is there an interest in the final word? rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u33	Thank you. Just for a little while. At the end of the debate, there were eleven Members and Members. I would just like to point out one thing that has been said here. Many challenges have been raised, but these are not proposed as part of the resolution, except for a new provision from Mr Volný. However, I would like to point out one inaccuracies that has been said, and that is that the points would perhaps be approved on the working group by the majority of all present. They all had to agree to the text as proposed. And I will point out that the chairmen of the MPs did not meet, but for each club appointed by a Member. So much from me at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u34	Thank you. I don't see the plaintiffs. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail, which I am opening with this, and at the moment the Volný Member is signed up. The rapporteur then came forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u35	So I would like to read a supplement to the resolution on paragraph No. 7. And now I'm going to load this additional point. It reads: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that the current situation in Syria is caused by illegitimate actions by many states, which have also supported extremist Islamist forces, which have tried to overthrow the legitimate Syrian government by terror. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u36	Thank you. Now the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u37	Thank you. I should read the resolution at this point in time for the matter to be done: "1. The Chamber of Deputies expresses solidarity with the Syrian population, whose majority live under very difficult conditions, millions of people were internally displaced or forced to flee abroad. The Turkish invasion only further deepens the humanitarian crisis and increases the suffering of the civilian population, including women and children; 2. The Chamber of Deputies condemns Turkey's invasion of Syria as a violation of international law; 3. Welcomes the decision of the Government of the Czech Republic to suspend export licences for military material to Turkey as part of the coordinated procedure of the Member States of the European Union; 4. Calls on the Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, to request that the European Council, at the forthcoming European Council, order the European Commission to draw up a proposal for economic and political measures aimed at forcing Turkey to stop military operations; 5. Condemns the brutal murder of Hevrin Khalaf, Secretary General of the Future of Syria, allegedly committed by pro-Turkish militants. This crime, like many others, must be investigated and the perpetrators punished; 6. categorically rejects Turkey's threats to the European Union states to free the way for migrants to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-15-ps2017-035-01-005-316.u38	Thank you. I ask if anyone else in the detailed debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. Mrs Pekarová Adamová apologizes from 20:00 for reasons of work, Mrs Kovářová cancels her apology and is already present. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote. I suppose - yes, there is an application for a check-out that I have just granted. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby one more time. The rapporteur here, in full agreement with me, tells me that we would vote with one vote on the compromise or consensual proposal from one to six. And then, if I understood that, as a possible point seven, we would vote on the proposal of Mr Volný. Is there any objection to that? [[No.]] In this case, I think it is not necessary to approve the procedure. Mr. rapporteur, do you have anything to say about this? [[No.]] Agreed. So please, we will therefore vote on the motion for a resolution - points one to six, as the working group has drawn them up. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 28, 147 Members are enrolled, for 147 against no one, this part of the resolution has been approved. [[Let's hear it.]] And now we will vote on paragraph 7, as the Volný Member has put it. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 29, 145 Members signed up, for 5, against 55. This proposal was not adopted. I note that the motion for a resolution in paragraph one to six has been approved, which has exhausted this item in the meeting and I am ending the item. There was a motion from President Bartoš for a minute of silence for a murdered politician. We have continuously consulted this proposal with the presidents of other clubs. There's no consistent agreement here. I'm not assessing the proposal. It would be good to go back to him in the morning and find a wider match, or pick a solution. Maybe it wouldn't even be so dignified at the end of the negotiations right now, keeping a minute of silence. So thank you all. I'm interrupting the meeting. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. according to the approved agenda.
