ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u1	13. Members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Tomáš Kohoutek, Radek Holomčík, Jan Chvojka, Pavel Bělobrádek, Petr Gazdík, Pavel Jelínek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws / House Print 214/ - second reading I ask the plaintiff of the plaintiffs, Mrs Markéta Adamová, to take the floor and make the proposal at second reading. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u2	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to draw your attention to this press 214, the amendment to Act No. 40/2009 Coll., a criminal code under which almost 80 Members across the entire political spectrum are signed as submitrs. Of course, I do not want to hold back from getting to other proposals, so I will briefly just remind you that this is an amendment aimed in particular at tightening up the punishments for animal abuse, especially for this particularly distressing, for this particularly serious. Another intention of this amendment is to prosecute so-called multiplication plants, to define what exactly the multiplication plants are, and therefore to introduce new crimes that are mentioned and which concern all of them also animals and their abuse. This proposal, given that it has been discussed in committees and amendments have been adopted to it, one very comprehensive one has been adopted directly in the IDA, of course it will still be amended either by this comprehensive proposal or, and I would like to add that in the debate, precisely by the variant of our compromise proposal on a comprehensive proposal. It's a bit of a complicated situation, but I believe we're oriented. In this respect, the purpose of the amendment, which is a compromise and which includes me, is to maintain the original meaning of the proposed amendment and, at the same time, to comply with some of the arguments of the constitutionally-legal committee. It is conceived as a compromise amendment to the comprehensive amendment that came out of the CIP. I would like to present that further in the debate. I think at first we know what we're talking about, so that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press has been ordered to the agricultural committee, and the committee's resolution is delivered as House prints 214/2 to 5. Now, I would like to ask the rapporteur of the constitutionally-legal committee, Mrs Helena Válková, to inform us of the committee's proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u4	Thank you. I'll be quite brief, because something has already been said here. The comprehensive amendment adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Committee is at your disposal. We have taken the view that both the facts proposed and, above all, the criminal rates that are at risk of acting in accordance with the other factual elements in order to avoid the dissonance, the irregularities, the non-systemic solution, where certain offences that threaten life and health, or even the offences to be punishable by acts leading to death, were threatened by the same or comparable criminal rate as animal abuse, because we are based on a general principle, I dare say, a recognised principle, that the most valuable property is the life and health of a person, a human individual, and that means that it is also to correspond to a graduated criminal penalty, which does not at all call into question the need to tighten up and refine. It means raising some criminal rates, making it more precise to respond to the situation caused by animal breeding under inappropriate conditions, so-called multiplication plants, on the one hand, and excesses, which have alerted us to the fact that, with impunity, there must be no abuse of a living creature in the form of an animal, because we have a lot of living creatures, and I do not know whether we would like to modify the footsteps of a fly, and it is also a living creature, however, at this stage of perception of society, what is and should be criminal and not, so I think that the amendment is appropriate, and in this regard I also tend to believe that it is an act that the Chamber of Deputies will certainly appreciate, and eventually we will get to some conclusion. [[What?]] Now, here's how we're gonna fix this. We went as part of the original proposal, which was then adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, with Mr Benda according to the ultimo ratio principle, that is, criminal repression should not be a means that solves everything. We've, uh, been told here, ripped down. I would like to use the term to clear the original proposal that Mrs Adamová here spoke of, through you, Mr Vice-President, and I think we have been relatively successful. Unfortunately, many MEPs, our constituents and citizens and fellow citizens did not think so, so there have been other amendments that they are proposing again, including the so-called 'I'll allow myself to use as a rapporteur who knows the course relatively well because she has to follow it from the rapporteur's post, the so-called compromise proposal, which, unfortunately, is a proposal that, in some facts, is rocking the criminal justice system. If I'm specific, if the perpetrator gets a significant benefit, then in that case, the rates are up to eight years old for breeding under inappropriate conditions, so-called multiplication plants, with the fact that I understand, of course, that it is necessary to have the possibility of wiretaps, but not at all costs. Not at all costs, because we'd have to raise criminal rates elsewhere. So, in relation to the constitutionally-legal committee, I would say that this was a balanced compromise, the proposal was discussed on 26 March, and the resolution was then delivered to Members as a press of 214/3. The hearing was adjourned, we were waiting for the agricultural committee. He discussed 20 at the earliest. 2. but interrupted and then basically waited for our discussion, then 2. 5. 2019 issued a resolution delivered to Members as a press 214 with amendments, and then a guarantee constitutionally-legal committee discussed the bill and issued a resolution delivered to Members as a press 214/5 on 17 June. Then we have some proposals, which, such as Mrs Levová, have been changed and taken back, I am sure that they will make a final statement. [[18.30 hours]] And indeed the last proposal, I have also, of course, also proposed an example there, as I do not think I want to speak as rapporteur about myself, but only in September, or after the summer holidays, and Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, through you, Mr Vice-President, even until 17 October, under the number 3553 of the so-called compromise proposal. It's complicated to convince you now of what you prefer. It is even more difficult to explain to you that if we change the facts this ad hoc way, we will be forced to maintain a fair balance in the criminal code, tighten up criminal rates for some other violent crimes, with the fact that even now, courts are not using the higher half of the penalty rate when they impose penalties, they usually move in the lower half of the penalty rate. So if he's been out there for two to six years, they're moving forward so they're imposing a penalty in the rate of three years, not five to six years when it comes to first-timers. So it will be an increase in criminal repression, perhaps even more or less unsuccessful alternative sanctions, and as a result of fulfillment in the extreme case of already overcrowded prisons. I don't want to be dramatic, but I think we have to deal with criminal repression differently than when we're amending the administrative order, the Civil Procedure Code, the procedural rules, where there's no such thing at all. But it is incomparable, even though we are amending substantive legislation, such as the Civil Code. There really isn't much repression there. Or if we're forcing citizens to do something there, we're certainly not threatening them with a criminal rate raised, possibly, by prison. So as rapporteur, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a very beneficial standard when we then removed the nonsense that I accepted there by co-signing, because I did not read properly the first proposal that the probation officer should run instead of supervising the perpetrator and see how it is with the animals and control on a foreign plot any inappropriate conditions for their breeding, so when we have removed these literally material nonsense there, it certainly is a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, at the moment, we do not have a match on what that step should look like specifically. And as rapporteur, I would point out that the proposal, which is presented as a compromise, has - and here I would like to use the term "only" - 15 signatures, not 50. So it will be up to you to judge fairly, to look into the criminal code, to compare the facts that I have pointed out, for example, not to provide assistance, but there are also various violent offences in the area of battery, and to see if it is right to prosecute someone who behaves in a way that we already consider to be in excess of the criminal law of such a delinquent. If you think it's right and you want us to tighten up the criminal repression, raise your hand for it. If you think that is not the case, then I recommend that you raise your hand in the third reading for the more moderate proposals that do not move so strongly the current version of the Criminal Code, the current criminal system. I do not want to say more as rapporteur, Mr Vice-President. The proposals were... eleven, if I'm counting it fast, because I wasn't prepared to come out here today, that the law would come up, but I'm pretty much pretty well-educated, so I'm sorry I'm counting on the speaker's counter, but there's more than ten of them, and they're going against each other. [[The rapporteur counts them one by one.]] Unfortunately, the consensus has not been found, so it would be good for everyone to come forward at second reading and help me in this intelligence role by justifying the reasons on which their proposals - Mrs Levová, on whom she no longer insists - to have Mrs Jarošová, for example, and to convince you, as Members and Members, to make it easier for you to have it. Voting on this law and its results will not be easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u5	Have a good evening. I now ask the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, to inform us of the committee proposal and to justify any amendments. So, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u6	Good evening, colleagues. I have no amendments to this bill for the agricultural committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u7	You can also inform us about the discussion of the proposal. [[Mrs Balaštíková is looking for a resolution of the agricultural committee.]] I'll put it in your hand, madam. Madam!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u8	I apologize to all my colleagues. In fact, it is the 91st resolution of the agricultural committee from the 22nd meeting and it is on the proposal of the members of the Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Tomáš Kohoutek, Radek Holomčík - I will please no longer read it. And the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after the opening words of the representative of the group of petitioners and my intelligence report and after the debate: firstly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic the proposal of Members of the Chamber of Deputies Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Tomáš Kohoutek and, please, another number 40/2009 Coll., the Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws, the House press 214, to approve in the wording of the adopted amendment - in Article 2 (1), paragraph 1. The term "convicted" shall be replaced by "in possession of the sentenced person or whom the sentenced person is using or where the sentenced person is staying"; and, secondly, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to propose, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department, the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, where appropriate, further necessary adaptations pursuant to Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to familiarise the House of Deputies with this resolution; Fourthly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u9	Thank you. Feel free to bring it to me. You can give it back to me. Thank you. Like I said, we're always ready here. I am opening a general debate in which Members Monika Jarošová, Pavel Bělobrádek, joined. There is a factual point here, but it should respond to someone in the debate, so I would give the floor to Mrs Monika Jarošová, then Mr Dominik Feri to the factual and then Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am so proud that Čech are one of the greatest animal lovers in the world. There may be up to two million dogs and a million cats in the Czech Republic. We are second in Europe in the proportion of dogs to the population. I myself am an animal breeder, and my life would be empty without them. Although we love animals, we are also witnessing a second phenomenon. Veterinarians deal more often with abuse cases. For a number of people, animals are a mere thing and a means to become quite quickly rich today without the greater risk of sanctions or punishment. We've become a business of multiplication. And we can't be proud of that anymore. That's our sad business card. Our SPD movement is the promoter of this bill on so-called multiplication plants and now a similar amendment to the law has been prepared by the government, for which I am very pleased. It was more than necessary. Both laws are a response to increasing cases of animal abuse. I think society has become insensitive, rude, and needs to respond. [[18.40 hours]] This amendment is intended to help change the way animals are treated because an advanced and civilized society is known for its treatment. That is why we should change access to animals and abuse offenders. Any abuse must be properly punished, and the perpetrator must undergo such criminal proceedings, including the main trial, which will have an educational character for him. Today's sanctions system is so ineffective that the owners of the breeding plants and breeders will not be discouraged. They're getting absolutely ridiculous sums. Moreover, a large number of multiplication plants are not easy to detect. Animal protection is inadequate and there are low penalties for abuse. Unfortunately, they do not remember the current laws and, in particular, it is desirable for punishments to be deterrent. I believe that even an animal should have the right to a fair trial, and that is why the laws need to be adjusted so as to eliminate as much as possible the cruelty that is committed on them. Dirty breeding business doesn't just revolve around dogs. His victims are also cats. Because of the nature of these animals, cat breeding plants are rarely able to detect, because cat suffering is painful and quiet. Unfortunately, courts often impose conditional sentences, or generally beneficial work, even for really brutal cases of abuse. I only know of one groundbreaking sentence in Děčín, where the judge there sent the defendant to prison for abuse of Rony's dog. It's an unusual and breakthrough verdict. Most judges in the Czech Republic grant conditions to animal bullies. Thank you so much, Judge. Recently, the public has been particularly upset by several cases where puppies have been targeted by tyrants. Let me give you some examples. In Czech An exhilarating man killed a husky puppy with a kick. The unknown man cut the dog in Prague's Strašnice. Another man from Prachatic tortured a little labrador and still got shot kicking him, strangling him and beating him to the ground. At that time, people demanded the maximum possible punishment for animal abuse, i.e. two years hard. And the punishment surprised the experts. A year in prison with a two-and-a-half condition. Other cases: For example, the owner left cows up to the belt in his own feces without food or water. Or the case of smuggling, when smugglers from Hungary carried 37 puppies stuffed in small cages and boxes for rodents across our territory. Other cases: For example, puppies dumped in Klatovy, left behind in the field with a slim chance of salvation, when out of 11 puppies survived six. The owner said he didn't know what to do with them, he didn't take them to the shelter because he was afraid he'd have to pay. A disgusting case of abuse took place in Decin. A pejsek he inherited from his grandfather tried to shoot a man there. He didn't want to take care of him, so he decided he'd rather kill him. Yes, the punishments today are so ridiculous, he just took the liberty of taking the risk. Or imagine puppies who are sent to fly abroad, where they are paid for a kilo of living weight. Eighty percent of these dogs die in crates. Those are all cases where even citizens called for harsh sanctions, unfortunately, they called in vain. And severe cases of abuse are increasing. The State Veterinary Administration of the Czech Republic has filed eight criminal notifications in this context, which was twice as many as a year before. There's also more complaints from the public. Since 2014, the animal is not considered by law as a thing, but a creature gifted with senses. But even today, in 2019, the punishments for inhuman animal abuse are so many times lower than for petty theft. Two years max, probation, fine. These are punishments for kicking, beating, strangling, heating, starvation, throwing animals out of the panel. It can't be left unanswered. And for these and for many other reasons, it is necessary to harden and punish properly. I believe that most decent people in this country are not indifferent to the fates and lives of animals, no matter what animal it is, it doesn't matter. Animals are as defenseless as children or old people. And there is no way that torture, abuse, or inhumane conditions can be punished as an offence. People who are able to commit such acts on animals will next commit them on humans. Because if, for example, someone is able to put a cat in a box and light it, it's only a matter of time before his anger turns on a person. This amendment is intended to help change access to animals, because an advanced and civilized society can be recognized just by the way it is treated. Our SPD movement will support any legislative regulation that will lead not only to the fight against multiplication but also to the protection of animals against abuse. Because we don't care about the subject. And since Christmas is coming up soon, I would like to mention here that a dog or any other animal is not a gift or toy for children. It is primarily responsibility and large financial costs that remain on the shoulders of parents. And the statistics from shelters are relentless: every year since New Year a steep increase in unwanted dogs and cats in shelters. Therefore, I would like to appeal to the public that instead of buying puppies and kittens without a certificate of origin from sometimes dubious breeders try to visit animal shelters and associations, maybe some of them will fit your eye and make your children happy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u11	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Dominik Feri will be prepared by Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have actually responded to the report by Mrs Válková, for the simple reason that she mentioned the question of overcrowded prisons. And I don't think it's fair in relation to this thing, because this would be a unit of cases per year. Those really are the loudest cases. However, I must persuade my colleague, through Mr President, that prisons are actually overcrowded. That there are a lot of 208 prisoners per 100,000 inhabitants and that we should be dealing with this. After all, in a two-day-old report from the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, it's underlined. And I think we can also address the issue of rates. Because if we raise the rates, some balance of the criminal rates is fluctuating. But it's also a question of whether the balance, as the prosecutors mention, is not actually achieved by the fact that some of the criminal rates are too high, some of them are shot again, and that's already in this state. That the balance is only apparent. And considering that a third of that total length, and I don't mean that, that's a significant difference - a significant number of people sentenced to unconditional imprisonment, for example. for obstructing the enforcement of an official decision and a declaration, or, for example, theft. But if we look at the lengths, more than a third of all outstanding prison sentences are drug offences and the thefts. So we should focus on that, see if there's any way to adjust those rates. I'm just saying that it's not fair to mention overcrowded prisons in this context. But what I think we can look at in the Constitutional and Legal Committee are the rates, if it really wouldn't be worth imposing a shorter sentence, and thus dealing with the problem. For example, a seminar with representatives from the Supreme Attorney's Office would be more than appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u13	Yes, thank you for keeping time. So now Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will be the last so far registered. Ambassador, you have the floor, please. So far, no one else is logged in. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, if I am not mistaken, we are two veterinarians in Parliament. My colleague is in the Senate, and I'm here in the House. So it's not just the education I get from college, it's also the fact that I've been living as an official veterinarian for several years, and one of my agendas was to protect animals from abuse. So in order to do this against my education, I'm certified by the Central Animal Protection Commission so I can do it, so I've done it in practice. And so did my dissertation to protect animals from abuse. So I'm gonna take the liberty of adding the expertise to what was said here by my colleague, Mrs Válková. [[18.50 hours]] It is not always easy to put expertise into legislation and merge it with the legislative side. I have co-signed the original proposal, with some reservations about some of the passages of the original proposal. And then he came, after some time, the complex change, so-called. A compromise proposal. I can say that, in my opinion, it's not compromise, but it's really well done. And all the comments that I have had about this and which I have also consulted at the University of Veterinary and Pharmaceutical Sciences with my former trainer at the Institute, which deals with the protection of animals against abuse both practically and questions of legislation and legislation at all, is what they teach, so I am convinced, even after the consultation, that, as it turned out, it is not a compromise, but it is really balanced, because in the original proposal some passages were actually unprofessionally or not well written, and as the resulting product is, I will say clearly that it is actually well written and that it is well thought out. I also think that there have been some adjustments in terms of rates to the benefit of the matter. What was said here, I'm just going to react very briefly. It's important to remember that animals are not just dogs and cats. Not all animals are as defenseless as kittens. If you have a ton of bull, you rarely explain to him that it would be good for him to do or not to do anything. If that's...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u15	Then I shall ask you to remain calm in the Chamber so that the Member may speak. prosit klid down. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u16	If he's a beast, he's got some manners too. And we know that tragedies happen when dogs bite little children, and that's very unpleasant. There are cases where farm animals and domestic animals hurt not only by breeders but also by strangers. That means let's have...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u17	Then I shall ask you once more for peace so that the Member may speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u18	This means that there are cases that need to be taken very seriously. The same thing to remember is that when you live and treat these animals, you can't have completely human aspects on them, because these animals obviously have different behaviors, they have different physiology, they obviously have different parameters. This also needs to be taken into account at all times. It is also true that we must be careful not to go too far in this legislation. Yes, that mouth that was, that animal is a thing, it was also given historically by right. And, of course, no one denies that an animal is a living creature that feels pain, and it is right that this legislation moves and that perception. But then we can't put humans and animals on the same level, because we could get into a paradoxical situation that we can't guide an animal, because it's against his physiology, that we can't castrate it or that we can't allow it when we see fit. What this legislative regulation is dealing with is also what it is called. multiplication plants. It is, of course, a disgusting business that is being done, but always, and it was also in the original proposal, it is necessary to be careful not to harm those breeders who are decent and who are really trying to make the animals live in good, well-being and without any harm. Therefore, once again, I want to say that it is always necessary to weigh well and always to distinguish and not to give human proportions and human qualities to animals, because nature is neither merciful nor cruel. She's what she is. And she needs to be treated like one. So when a beast rips off a mammal, let's say when a wolf rips off a deer or when a lion rips off an antelope, it doesn't stun it before. It's nature. And it needs to be realized that that's just the way it is in nature. As humans, we are not animals, and that is why we are not supposed to act like animals, and that is why it is good for us to always deal with this. But in order to avoid the relationship between how to treat people and how to perceive animals as surely creatures who feel pain, and they need to be respected as God's creation. I therefore very much welcome this comprehensive amendment. And although it's called compromise, I think it's right that it's balanced and that it's removed many defects that the original one had, which I also co-signed here. I am glad that, in the end, I did not have to make any amendment to the comprehensive amendment when we talked about it with my colleague, and that I can support him with calm conscience even after consulting the university experts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u19	Thank you. I have a point of fact here, an application. So I would like to ask Mrs Pekarová whether you are going into factual or... general. In general. So, with the factual remark of Mrs Helena Válková. Please, your two minutes. And then Mrs Pekarová will be prepared for the plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u20	So I was smiling when Mr. Feri here through you, Mr. Vice-President, said it wasn't fair. Well, unfortunately, I wasn't making it up, because a number of those conditional sentences and alternative sanctions that would be considered by the first-timers end up in prison, virtually. By turning this into an unconditional punishment, I don't see why this shouldn't end like this with these facts. Once again, the compromise proposal. So if I compare the breeding of animals under inappropriate conditions, as is compromisely suggested, where the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment for two years to eight years, if... under the inappropriate conditions, as set out here, properly behaved, I have nothing against the wording, but against the rate. And if he commits the act, virtually. he intends to gain a substantial benefit for himself or another, which is the CZK 500,000 at least, so he is at risk at the rate of two years to eight years. And maybe we have the murder of a newborn baby by a mother, right, three years to eight years. And I could go on like this when I think that some of the rates are really coming, or are just as strict as the rates when our newborn baby dies. Well, I have a problem with that. Someone doesn't have a problem with that. He thinks it's right. The vote shall be decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u21	There. I will now ask for a speech for the rapporteur, Mrs Pekarová. I'll just read an apology. Mr Roman Onderka apologizes for today's meeting from 18.20 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u22	Not as rapporteur, but as promoter, Mr President. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Sorry for the plaintiff. I'm sorry.]] For the plaintiff, yes. Well, I'll be very brief, I've only got a few minutes left, so I'm gonna try to be really fast. I must respond to some of the things that have been said here by the rapporteur. One thing that isn't fair is talking about flies when the design is clearly targeted at vertebrates, so it doesn't really belong to flies. Anyway. By reducing the upper limits of criminal rates from the originally proposed eight years to the six years when the current legislation talks about five years, compliance with the key argument raised by the constitutionally-legal committee is precisely the case and therefore a strong border will continue to be maintained between the level of animal protection and the level of human protection. At the same time, however, there will also be an increase in the upper limit of these offences over five years, at least the most serious crimes committed on animals will be transferred from the category of offences to the category of crimes. This will help address current shortcomings, such as the impossibility of solving cases by means of criminal orders, facilitating courts in the most serious ones, highlighting the most serious, imposing unconditional sentences, the impossibility of suspended prosecution and others. [[19.00 hours]] This compromise amendment also comes with the fact that there is full compliance with the arguments made by the members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee in relation to the unsystematic increase in the spread of infectious animal diseases and the spread of contagious diseases and pests of commercial plants under Sections 306 and 307 of the Criminal Code. At the same time, the amendment addresses the definition of the propagation plant in the very substance of the proposed animal-breeding offence under inappropriate conditions under Section 302a, as presented by the amendment of the constitutionally-legal committee. So we are really trying to take the utmost account of the specific aspects that we see as acceptable, appropriate in this comprehensive amendment to the constitutionally-legal committee, and we are trying to be engaged. Next thing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u23	It's 19 o'clock, so I'm just gonna ask if you have it for a second, so I'll leave you in a minute if that's it or I'll have to interrupt you. [[Mrs Pekar: It's two paragraphs, so I can still make it...]] Well, you're the new president, the only president in the Republic, so we'll give you exclusive space. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u24	Thank you, thank you. The amendment also involves the full incorporation of the proposed amendments tabled under the separate amendment by the rapporteur, Mrs Helena Válková, who is under the heading 3248 concerning the incorporation of legislative technical amendments in relation to Section 53 of the Criminal Code and the necessary addition of the offence of obstruction of the enforcement of official decisions and of the declaration under Section 337 of the Criminal Code. The amendment to the Penal Code has gone through a big discussion. We discussed this - and I remind you once again, it is seven clubs, of which they are Members. I hereby thank them for signing, there are 15 of us in total. And I ask you very much to support this comprehensive proposal at the third reading. He's under number 3553. And I'm done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-26-ps2017-039-01-009-013.u25	I'll see if anyone else in the general debate can frame it a little bit. I see no one, so I am ending this general debate, and because there is no agreement that we will continue after 19 o'clock, I am interrupting today's negotiations. I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00. Have a good evening.
