ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with your ID cards, or I would like to know who's asking for a replacement card. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková votes with replacement card number 18, Mr Bartoš with replacement card number eight. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4, our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 68 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday 23 October. I'm asking for peace, because we're going to move on to the procedure and we're going to vote. So I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. [[Gong.]] And now we will proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Mr Tomáš Vymazal the verifier of this meeting. Does anyone else have a suggestion? The Member has deleted them, the Member has not yet. So if no one else has a proposal, I'm taking the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? [[A note from the diaper.]] Is there any discontent with the voting devices? Mr Bartoš. The voting device doesn't work. Mr. Ambassador, please inform me if you are questioning the vote or whether I should interrupt the meeting. I'll just have a moment, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-000-000.u2	I didn't have an activated card if I could question the vote. Then I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-000-000.u3	So does the voting device work, or doesn't it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-000-000.u4	I wanted to vote yes, but I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-037-01-000-000.u5	Okay, thank you, so it was for the record. Let's keep going. I note that the verifiers of the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies (in voting number 1) have therefore been designated by Mr Kateřina Valachová and Mr Tomáš Vymazal. Mr Birke, for reasons of health, Mr Beitl Stanislav, for reasons of health, Mr Blaha for Pávek of work, Mr Bojko for Žáček of employment, Mrs Bělounek for Malá of work abroad, Mr Bilha Stanislav for reasons of employment, Mr Bojko for reasons of employment, Mr Mašek for reasons of employment, Mrs Bělounek for Vyzula of employment, Mr Bilha Juránek for Jan of employment, Mr Volný for reasons of employment, Mr Bojko for reasons of employment, Mr Bojko for králíček of Kohoutek, Mrs Bilda for reasons of employment, Mr Ventruba for Vácha of employment, Mr Bilka for reasons of employment, Mr Hrnčíř for reasons of employment, Mr Bilka for Venhoda of employment, Mr Bilda Jurečka for Schwarzenberg of employment, Mr Bilka for Richter of employment, Mr Bilka for reasons of employment, Mr Bilda for Martinů of employment, Mr Langšadka for Kasal of employment reasons of the reasons of employment, Member for Lubomír of Parliament for Majerová of Parliament for Langšádlová of Parliament for reasons of the reasons of the reasons of Parliament for reasons of the European Communities for Stanjura of the reasons of the European Parliament for reasons of the reasons of the reasons of the reasons of the European Communities of the 10th of the European Communities for reasons of the European Union for reasons of the European Union for reasons of the European Union for reasons of the European Union for reasons of the European Union for Volný of the European Union for reasons of the European Union for reasons of the European Union for Golasowská of the European Union for reasons of the reasons of the Zahradník of the reasons of the European Zdeněk on the Kobza of the Ondráček of the European Parliament's. Furthermore, these government members asked to apologise for their absence: Prime Minister Babiš for personal reasons, Minister Kremlík for work reasons, Minister Plaga for work reasons and Minister Toman for work reasons. The following apologies have also been received: Mr Holík apologizes from today's day on a foreign trip, and Mr Kupka apologizes for today's day on personal grounds. That was an apology. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 37th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is not possible to propose an amendment or addition to the programme, nor can it be extended by the approved programme. We will now vote on the whole proposal for a programme - I will re-create my colleagues - the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing, if no one else has anything else. [[Gong]] It doesn't look like it. So I'm taking the vote. I'm asking who's up for the proposed show. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 2 of this meeting, 143 Members and Members were enrolled, for 142, against no one. The motion was accepted. Before we proceed to discuss a single item in this programme, let me inform you that the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue at 10.30. In this context, a five-minute pause between the two meetings is needed due to the switch of the voting device. So at 10.25, we should cancel the 37th meeting. And now for the agenda. Opening point
