ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u1	314. Information of the Minister for Health about the health situation I ask that the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch take the floor, and a representative of the plaintiffs is prepared by Mr Daniel Pawlas. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, therefore, to start this point, which is quite broad, and I will, of course, also talk about specific matters, but it would be good to recapitulate what the situation looks like right now, because sometimes I feel that what we see in the media does not really correspond to reality. The truth is that we are now at a time when the situation is quite exposed, as it is every year, it is nothing special because it is decided how care will be paid for next year. The Ministry of Health has prepared a payment decree for next year, and similar discussions, similar pressure actions, etc. take place every year. On the other hand, it is also true that since my arrival, we have been trying much more to talk to health professionals, to seek consensus as well as in the negotiation procedure on health care payments for next year. Therefore, the payment decree is based on most agreements between health insurance companies and representatives of individual segments for the second time in a row. The overall segments are 14 and 12 segments agreed on how the care will be paid, so the vast majority, it also needs to be recalled, although of course no one is 100% satisfied. Probably if we asked each of the individual segments, let them be practical doctors, outpatient specialists, gynecologists, medical emergency services, physiotherapy, etc. etc., so everyone would say that they need more, that the increase is insufficient. On the other hand, it is about compromise, seeking compromise within the limits of the possibilities of the system. The public health insurance system is developing well, I would say very well, especially in recent years, including this, we have achieved great results. For next year, the revenues of the public health insurance system will be CZK 350 billion, including an increase in the payment for state insured persons of CZK 3.5 billion, which is a genuine historical amount. But even so, costs will be higher than income growth. There are sometimes debates about whether we should use the reserves, that the money is there, etc. We'll plug them in next year. Because the year-on-year increase in the system's revenue is 19 billion and the increase in the cost of care will be 26 billion. We will invest CZK 26 billion directly into the care, as the agreement is within the framework of the negotiation procedure of the agreed payments under the payment decree and the agreement with insurance companies. Of course, if the system develops well, we are ready, and we are discussing it with health insurance companies, going beyond the payment decree, but it is about the fact that we really need to invest in care. I'm simply rejecting the melting of reserves when we're pouring money into the system and believing that it's gonna solve something. It won't. The only solution is really to invest in availability, in quality of care, in targeted payment mechanisms, in support of regional hospitals, inaccessible areas in both primary care, secondary care, and, of course, in the area of precisely those hospitals that are in remote locations. And that's already happening. We are prepared and will implement and implement a targeted payment policy in cooperation with VZP these days to support hospitals that are objectively disadvantaged in remote areas, such as Jeseník, Šumperk, Rumburk, Znojmo, Nové Město, and, of course, we will evaluate the situation and we are ready to support others if there are really objective reasons for this from the point of view of inaccessibility of care. Because we can't go the other way that we're just gonna blindly spill money into the system, but we have to go to the troubles where they are. And we have a lot of problems today, of course. No one ever said, not even from my mouth, that the health service works great, that everything is 100% okay. I think our health care is great in general, the results are really excellent. We are also moving in international rankings in terms of international comparison. Our health service really works. I've had the opportunity now, because the debates are different with the unions, talking to people from practice, with clinic leaders, really with people who are 30 years in practice. They say that health care has never been in such a good condition as it is now - and they are chiefs of surgical clinics, cardiology clinics, etc. So many patients never got to the state-of-the-art care. We treat the most patients with state-of-the-art drugs in history that actually save lives in the field of central care, oncological care, cardiological care, etc. So what's happening today is that health care is collapsing, it's in crisis, so it's just not true. Health care has its problems, in some regions the problems are certainly not small in terms of ensuring primary care of practitioners, practitioners for children and adolescents, in terms of ensuring some acute post-care departments, but it is really a question of regional, some selected regions, selected hospitals. But to say that the health care system is completely in a collapse, that the crisis situation is completely out of place, that's just not true. I think that the draft payment decree, which is now being sent to the Legislative Council of the Government, ensures that the whole health sector is growing, not just one segment at the expense of others. But for the first time, we really want to support all segments, from primary care to treatment of rare diseases in super-specialized centres. All segments grow into one, no segment stagnates, none drop in payments, all grow. And that's the positive information. Because we can't think that for example. We will only support hospitals, although they are a hugely important segment in the system, and we will not engage the other segments. We need to involve everyone in the care of the patient. Indeed, what we are focusing on right now is the promotion of primary care. Because this is the problem with the current system, too, that hospitals that are often objectively complaining about overload tend to care for patients who do not belong in those hospitals who have problems that can be solved at lower levels of health care, in the outpatient sector or in the primary care. And that's the basic objective. That's the basic vision. Really build health care from the bottom, involve primary care, involve the outpatient sphere. That's why we have, for example. in the next year in the bonification payment decree for the fact that an outpatient specialist accepts new patients, new insured persons, that he will take care of insured persons on the same day - they are called. urgent slots. If he is actually sent by a practical doctor and has a major problem and an outpatient specialist accepts him on the same day, he will receive a higher remuneration for it, because of course it is something beyond that. So we're going through a really targeted bonding process to ensure the availability and quality of health care and to grow all the segments that we need to involve in this care. I agree that, of course, health care has its problems, as I have mentioned, also in terms of personnel, in terms of e.g. and the availability of medicines, etc. I have the questions that the caller of this point gave me. It's quite extensive, I think there's something else to be said. But these questions, of course, aim at the right areas concerning, for example, the personnel status of the Czech health care, the issue of the availability of medicines. [[12.10 hours]] If we're talking about the personnel aspect of the thing, that is. providing staff in Czech hospitals and in general in health care, so I agree that the situation is not always good, it is also not a general question, but really every hospital has a little different problems, somewhere there is a bigger problem with nurses, somewhere with doctors, somewhere the problem is not significant. But the second thing is the one who's ever dealt with it. We know today, and it's not surprising that the medical population is getting old. That, in fact, as the population develops, the general population and the medical population are getting older. And on the other hand, no one ever really planned on restoring the aging medical population. How to replace her with a new young generation. By the way, we solved after many years that we really started to support medical education in this academic year, systematically, all medical faculties, so that there would be teachers who could teach young doctors - because it was also a problem, no one wanted to teach at those medical faculties, especially in those basic fields - and to have more graduates. Since this year and actually last academic year, but this year it started really hard, medical faculties accept 15 percent more students, they can pay better teachers at medical faculties, overall it is a ten-year action plan, sorry, eleven-year action plan for 7 billion. Crowns. And that's the target. We really need to support medical education. And so are we on our way to support high school health schools. When we look at the data, it doesn't exactly show a bad outlook, because both in those medical faculties where interest is increasing and we are able to take more students now, and in those high schools there is a significant increase in interest in study. Between 2017 and 2018, the number of students admitted increased by around a thousand. Now I've seen the current data between 2018 and 2019 and the increase is 1 700. This means that we are increasing the number of students and students in secondary health schools. Of course the critics will say, the question is, will everyone go into practice? But on the other hand, we also need to get them there first, to the schools. And I think that the situation is really improving in this regard. And she's getting better, even if no one wants to hear it, even in the hospitals. When we look at the data and I'm not saying that we can get excited about it and that it's something where we're supposed to jump two meters into the air, but the truth is, the nurses stopped leaving the hospitals, from acute bed care. Indeed, there, on the data we have from the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, it follows that after years before, when sisters left objectively in the order of hundreds of emergency bed care, the decline stopped, they really stopped leaving. It was certainly also a question of raising funds, remuneration, etc. And that's something we need to come from, and it's positive, as I'm saying, even if it's not something that can please us, because we need to get new sisters there, there's definitely hospitals where the shortage exists. But they stopped leaving the hospitals, which I think is something that's positive information. And the increase is also taking place with doctors, we have data throughout the Republic, both acute and subsequent bed care. On the contrary, the number of doctors, although I say, is growing old, which is a problem, but rather not by pouring money into the system, but by just getting a new, young generation of doctors who will go to work in the Czech health care system. And, of course, if anyone here is still saying that the health sector is in crisis, it's collapsing, making the biggest bear service to the health sector itself. If we present Czech health care in this way, which is not even true, because, as I say, the situation is completely different, but if we present Czech health care in this way, then obviously the attractiveness of the field will not be too great for those young people who might think about going to health. So let's not create the impression of a crisis here, the impression of a collapse, let's say these things as they are, yes, that there are problems, let's solve them individually. Let's put money in the system where it's needed, but not by spilling money, melting half of the reserves, and so on, what the so-called one proposes. crisis crew. I am prepared to answer any further questions, I do not want to occupy the whole hour here, the time of course is somehow defined and the topic is very complex, but at least this way to the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u3	That was the Minister, and I ask now that Mr Daniel Pawlas, who, if he agrees, will also be his rapporteur, take the floor. Wouldn't you agree? Now, you agree, so sit down there later. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u4	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I am very pleased that the House plenary has included this item on the agenda in order to set this meeting, and I very much appreciate it. Unlike the Minister, however, I think the state of our health is not entirely ideal. From the experience of patients and available information sources it is evident that the Constitution, respectively. The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms guaranteeing the right to free health care in the Czech Republic is not fully implemented. The current situation is at the limit of the functioning of the healthcare system, especially with regard to the availability and quality of healthcare for all patients. This is the result of the irresponsible, often incompetent and non-systemic policies of all previous political governments. The current Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch also bears his share of responsibility, both by some of his contested decisions and by an inconsistent solution to the long-term and current problems of Czech health care. Although Czech health care is at a very good level according to international comparison, sometimes even at a top level, patients often encounter a contradiction between what the Constitution guarantees and the factual situation in individual regions, especially the more remote ones. This can be observed, for example, by the sad example of the hospital in Rumburk. The Czech Republic is struggling with a long-term unsolved lack of qualified personnel in acute bed care. The order of bedding medical facilities lacks money for necessary reconstructions and quality equipment. It is also the continuous underfinancing of health care that is to blame. The solution lies, on the one hand, in the systemic adjustment of income to public health insurance in the form of regular automatic increases in payments for state insured persons while at the same time aligning unjustified differences in health care payments. Finally, it is necessary to introduce a cultivated system for paying care according to the diagnosis, to change the organisation of work in hospitals towards limitation of overtime, to rethink the roles of individual professions, to move towards a common bed fund and one-day surgery. The reform of primary care and the strengthening of the role of practitioners, with emphasis on the prevention and responsibility of patients for their health, are also important. It is necessary to establish a network of modern hospitals guaranteed by the state. The whole system cannot do without the good functioning of outpatient care and the creation of a 20-year promised concept of long-term palliative and domestic care, including the establishment of clear funding for health-social boundaries. The Czech health service also misses significantly greater penetration of some medical disciplines and the attractive profession of nurses. This is a great task for a system of education in the field of medical and non-medical professions. The last amendments to the relevant laws didn't go well. Last but not least, it is very important to introduce objective quality assessment criteria and to continue the electronisation of health care. Professional chambers, unions, the Association of Small Hospitals, as well as home care providers have recently started calling loudly to dissolve reserves on health insurance accounts. These reserves provide insurance in tens of billions in the event of a decline in the economy so that insurance companies do not immediately find themselves in deficit, and data on the amount of these reserves vary. Defenders of these balances indicate that there are currently exactly 20 billion in insurance accounts. CZK directly intended to cover the cost of health care and another CZK 30 billion. CZK in various special-purpose funds. It is a prevention fund, a fund for the operation and investment of insurance companies and a mandatory reserve fund, where only the CFI has deposited more money than the symbolic legal minimum. [[12.20 hours]] The reserve in the true sense, i.e. the money deposited in the reserve fund, is now 15 billion with the R&D&I and, in the case of occupational insurance companies, is 1.5 percent of the average annual expenditure of the basic health insurance fund of the insurance undertaking in the immediately preceding three calendar years. This money should cover a reasonable year-on-year increase in costs due to inflation, population ageing and the entry of new, costly treatments and innovative medicines. In the event of a crisis, the provision of health insurance companies will help deliver the missing funds to the system so that the failure is not felt by providers or insured persons, who could otherwise be threatened by a reduction in the availability of care. If one year of insurance did not increase, health insurance companies would have to use a reserve of between 15 and 20 billion for just one year and rely on an exceptional budget subsidy. But according to the trade unions and employers, there are over CZK 55 billion in health insurance accounts, ten times as much as the law requires. Since this is an ongoing system, that is, at the beginning of the month there is always money coming from contributions, there is no disaster even in reducing the current reserve. In addition to the current dissolution of reserves, which will help meet the most pressing financial requirements, it is necessary to take all steps to increase public funds so that we can at least approach the advanced European countries in the percentage of GDP issued on health care. Our patients certainly need modern and financially stable health care. It's about their health and their lives. We are concerned about repeated efforts to reduce the importance, limit or completely cancel payments for state insured persons. These are now 5.9 million and each of them is paid by the state in 2019 CZK 1,018 per month. The need would be an increase to CZK 1,600 per month. These proposals by both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health are all the more incomprehensible, that experts have clearly agreed that the fiscal area of Czech health care should be composed of two basic parts. From the percentage of income of economically active persons and from the annualized payment for state insured persons from the state budget. This is due to the need for predictable and stable income in the public health insurance system. The public health insurance system was created on the basis of a social consensus and was based on solidarity and redistribution, which should not be subject to inappropriate government intervention. Between 2010 and 2013, the system lost CZK 18 billion due to the freezing of payments for state insured persons. The financial sustainability of the system is a constitutional value, because it is precisely the equal right to access to healthcare. The importance of the contribution from the State is increased during the economic downturn. The increase in unemployment by one percent is equal to the immediate decline in health insurance by approximately 6 billion and will increase in relation to the ageing population. Over the past 30 years, the population has increased by 50 percent over 65 years. For these reasons, the KSČM repeatedly proposes, and even now this proposal lies in the House, the legalization of regular valorisation of payments for state insured persons. For the first time, this proposal has already been tabled 17. 2. 2016. It is unacceptable for KSČM to create a shortage by restricting public state funds, thereby opening up room for increasing the participation of patients, whether in the form of direct payments, payments, commercial or bi-component insurance. It is evident that the current resolution of problems with the failure of the availability of medical care in the field of practical medicine, dental and other necessary care, including prescription medicinal products, is not conceptual. The system, if it is to work, must be interconnected and any ownership form of the equipment must have an obligation to operate in the system not according to its intentions, otherwise it is no longer a network and it is not possible to ensure regional accessibility in any other way. The right to own does not constitute a waiver of the State's obligation to provide health care to citizens, but not for payment by the citizen himself. The measures of the Ministry of Health, grant programmes for the establishment of practices and health insurance companies are not very effective yet. The current system of payment and care organization of providers is also failing, thus creating a gradually regional non-accessibility not only outpatient but also hospital, subsequent home, palliative and hospice care. The state is failing in the long term in the field of strategic investment in medical facilities set up by it. Now it takes about 70 billion crowns, but the Ministry of Health repeatedly did not negotiate these funds with the Ministry of Finance. In March 2019 the Minister said that the state of hospitals established by the State was pathetic. The state slept in the area of investment and the need is 73 billion crowns. The Ministry of Health had 1.3 billion at its disposal, but the Minister did not ask for any more money. The drug policy situation is very serious. Unfortunately, medicinal products are a commodity, a commodity, a commodity from the point of view of commercial law, as well as any other marketable item. The negotiations within the European Union to change this when it comes to medicines paid for public money are still unsuccessful. For this reason, there are often failures in the availability of certain prescription medications in pharmacies. Its share of responsibility is also borne by the State Office for Drug Control, which, however, is responsible for its activities to the Ministry of Health. Only to a certain extent can be helpful to pharmaceutical companies, distributors and pharmacies. The State as the contracting authority of the public service, the consumer and the main payer must be committed to securing the basic needs of patients. Another serious and long-term unsolved problem and increasingly dangerous health care provision is the lack of health workers, especially doctors and nurses. Currently 5 500 nurses and other staff are missing in the continuous operation of hospital facilities. However, other care is not available regionally. Everything is mainly related to the permanent underfinancing of the health system. The Czech Republic still does not reach an average of 9 percent of gross domestic product, as recommended in health care spending, and the Czech Republic only issues 6.8 gross domestic product on health care. [[percentage]] And subsequent failure to comply with promises and demands on the level of salaries and wages, continued differences between salaries and wages, poor education systems for medical and non-medical workers and practically non-compliance with the Labour Code. At the same time, the Ministry of Health does not pay enough attention to the warning of both health unions and health workers, employers and patients themselves to this unhappy state. The union's reservations are downgraded with reference to absolute numbers. Health is 320 billion with an annual increase of 20 to 25 billion. Unions within the crisis crew against the collapse of health care have now started with protest actions related to the petition, like Thank you, we are leaving 2010 and 2011. They insist on the promise of a 10% increase in wages - then payments from insurance companies should also be increased by 6 percent - given by the government in the previous parliamentary term. The Health Department only wants to raise 3 percent, with the fact that money needs to be put into hospital development now. Even the promised 3% do not really have to get medical personnel in hospitals due to the expected 2.5 percent inflation and debts from the past. The KSČM supports the demands of health unions and employers and, for the above reasons, demands that the Minister of Health answer the following questions and submit proposals to the Chamber of Deputies for measures on systemic solutions so that the right of citizens of the Czech Republic to quality and available health care is actually fulfilled. Question number one is what concept of financial security the Ministry of Health wants to choose in the long term to ensure the quality of territorial and financial availability of health care in the territory of the Czech Republic, especially in the regions where it is at risk, or clearly missing. How does the Ministry intend to finance the development of a basic network of outpatient doctors and hospital facilities, taking into account regional specifics? Two. In what way will the Ministry of Health ensure long-term stability of the availability of medicines that are required to be available in pharmacies, but whose repeated blackouts, including severe diagnoses, occur more and more often? Three. What steps will the Ministry take in the short and long term to stabilise staffing of individual levels of health care provision, rejuvenation of medical personnel, middle and medical staff and necessary investments for further education of health care workers? Four. How is it ensured that the European Union funds to be directed to the health sector are used effectively? Five. How does the Ministry intend to address a situation with a shortage of qualified health professionals? Six. How is the Ministry of Health prepared a solution to speed up the number of beds in subsequent care and also beds for seniors with regional accessibility? [[12.30 hours]] Seven. Does the Ministry of Health have an objective analysis of the state of personnel and instrumentation and the technical state of health facilities, whether it is the founder of the state, region or other bodies? It is a lot of questions that we Members would like to know the answers to, because care for patients in the Czech Republic, I believe, is on a good level, but there are always reserves. And what I have said here has a relevant basis, and I ask you, Minister, to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u5	Thank you. I'll read four more apologies. For reasons of work, between 14.30 and 18.00 Mrs Monika Červíčková apologizes. Mrs Jana Pastuchová also apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Jiří Mihola also apologizes today between 9 and 10 o'clock for reasons of work. That's kind of late for me. Is it today? It's today. Next, Mrs Lucie Šafránková, from 12 o'clock to the end of the meeting day, on account of working outside Prague in the electoral region. Furthermore, Mr Jiří Kobza from 14:00 until the end of the meeting day due to a working meeting in the electoral region outside the House. I am now initiating a general debate. I'm gonna ask for a gig. Subsequently, Minister Zaorálek will be prepared with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u6	Thank you. I am taking over the chair, and I therefore ask Vice-President Okamura to speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the topic of health is not only professional, but also highly political and civil. Every citizen has a constitutional right to free health care paid through health insurance, so allow me, as a medical layman, to present my point of view. Today's meeting point for the House is due to the activity of a part of health organizations that have started lobbying for money that is now in health insurance companies in several types of reserves. The requirements of nurses and other staff for higher wages are more than justified. Likewise, hospitals need more money for doctors' wages, because the current situation in many regional hospitals is literally murderous. People die here because of poor quality and literally unqualified sales care. The specific cases are literally horrible. A friend's wife was sent home from Svitavska Hospital with acylpyrin after a heart attack. Two hours later, she had a heart attack again and died without her husband calling for help. Twenty - five - year - old mother became ill with pancreatic cancer, and they tried to treat her surgically at the county hospital. The doctor in Brno offered her photon radiation with a 20 percent chance of living through the year. And when she found on the Internet that this type of tumor can be treated successfully with protons, she was discouraged by this doctor with the fact that it was expensive and the insurance company would not pay her off. Everything turned out okay here. After a few weeks of proton treatment, she's cured, but not through the health system, but despite him. I believe that in world comparison, our health care is professionally at a very high level. And as for the availability of care, we're from a certain point of view to the top. We have a waiting period for many performances, but they are still shorter than in Britain and are incomparable with states like the US, where you have no money for expensive treatment or procedure at all. But even when it comes to accessing healthcare, we can have a long discussion about this, because when I go to meetings with citizens on a regular basis, and I meet tens of thousands of them in a year, so when you look citizens in the mouth, they don't even have the power to have teeth, because it's just so expensive. There's someone laughing on the part of the pirát, and I don't look them in the mouth to say, open your mouth, but when I talk to them, it's obvious, so I just want to say that it's, of course, trivial. Because in Japan, it is said, among other things, that the country's standard of living is known by whether people have their teeth fixed in their mouths, if they have all their teeth, which, for example, Japanese seniors have. But in the Czech Republic, when you look and talk to people, a lot of them don't even have the power to have all their teeth. And that is the current miserable state, and that is the difference between a truly advanced country that has a good health system and the Czech Republic. So the minister here says how great everything is, but the facts, when you leave the luxury offices and get out of some cars, so when you actually talk to people on the street, the facts are completely different at first sight compared to developed countries. At first glance, they're different, not just once. I would say that out of the ten senior citizens you meet, many of them don't even have all the teeth because they just can't do it. So that's the situation. And let's not say that teeth are not part of the human body. That's not true. This perception was introduced here by right-wing governments in the 1990s, as if teeth were something else. And even so much nonsense, it's his own fault for having tooth decay. We must, of course, refuse that. But that doesn't mean our health care is okay. The fact that the Minister here is holed up, that we are doing well here in some sort of statistics or from some perspective, compared to all the countries of the world, because of course Africa, there are different developing countries, so of course we are doing well compared to them, but that does not mean that we could not have been better off really, which is true that we could have been better off really. The current system forces all workplaces to monitor performance and raise money, but not as efficiently as possible. The example is the treatment of the said mother with cancer, which is why I put it here. The first one was taken by the county hospital and tried to treat it with her own means without offering her the best treatment possible for this type of disease at a given stage. She was forced to do several surgeries because, of course, it would be an asset to the hospital's budget. And again, the system hasn't offered her the best treatment possible. In Brno, in the oncology center where they have photon, they offered her their own type of photon treatment, and of course not only because it is more effective than the surgery they offered at the district hospital, but it is also income for the workplace, and therefore they did not offer an even more effective and less invasive option, because money would be given to a competitive and highly hated workplace, regardless of whether the patient dies in productive age and leaves two small children behind. So that is today's state of health where, Minister, unfortunately, the system is not set up effectively. That's just a fact. You're talking about something other than what we want to talk about in the SPD. So it needs to be mentioned. The minister has declared a fight against smokers and beer drinkers. At present, each third person gets cancer, and each fourth person dies from cancer. The number of oncological diseases is increasing and the treatment will cost the system more and more money. Unfortunately, the Minister is not addressing the nature of the problem. The cause of most diseases is neither beer nor slivovice nor cigarette, because their consumption, unlike cancer, does not grow statistically compared to earlier. All governments and all health ministers who did not address the causes of the deterioration of citizens' health and the waste of money could not or did not want to stop. People who bought unnecessary and overpriced technologies, like Mr. Němeček from ČSSD, even became ministers of health. Let us not forget that the current government of the ANO and the ČSSD movement is the continuation of the past, because the coalition of the ANO and the ČSSD movement has been here for six years. And this government, the last one, has also done virtually nothing for the effectiveness of the health system. The Minister opposes critics for giving the most money to health care in history, which we have heard here, and plans the highest increases in spending. But this must go hand in hand with a total change in the system and an increase in the efficiency of spending. In our health system, there is really no pressure to use the most effective methods of treatment and there is minimal pressure to prevent it. As a layman, I think it's better not to have oncologically ill and to have more money for nurses' salaries than to raise expenses every year. And right here at this exact moment, what I just said is different from what the government coalitions are promoting here, and the SPD's view. [[12.40 hours]] I would analyse, first and foremost, how much a variety of diseases cost us, and for the most expensive and the most frequent, I would have a national prevention plan designed to address the causes and investments in these solutions. Sports unions, military or police have been warning for years that our children's physical condition is also falling dramatically. Of course, apart from overweight and lack of movement, we are mainly killed by a worse health environment. The number of necessary emissions from dust particles is growing, and I am already going back to what I said about smoking and lung diseases, respectively, and the number of dangerous emissions from dust particles is growing, but they are also different chemical compounds to microplastics. [[dangerous?]] Their effects on the organism are still being investigated. But is something wrong with it? Lack of boiler subsidies will certainly not change that, yet every million invested in technologies that reduce dangerous emissions will save both human lives and suffering and hundreds of millions of costs of healing and compensation for the consequences. Of course, we need to discuss how this environmental protection will take place, so that it is not some ecological activist madness that we are currently experiencing. That's different. What does the system government, exactly the governments YES, the ČSSD and the KDU-ČSL, mean, is this the past government that has flown into the current one, but also the others have done to improve the health of children and their condition? Not only that nothing, but sports and other movement rings are increasingly expensive for our children and unfortunately for many still unavailable. I know that our insurance companies, including VZP, contribute, for example, 500 a year, but this is a one-month fee for many sports clubs, if not less. There is no money to allow children a healthy free movement, and on the other hand, we gigantically waste the inefficiency of the entire system. For at least 29 years, experts have been discussing the merger of health and social insurance. Each institution responsible for collecting public revenue shall have certain functions which are common to all of them. It is also an information system, property equipment, enforcement, personalism, etc. The merger of these institutions, which is in line with the recommendations of the World Bank and the OECD, would result in significant synergies and a reduction in operating costs. And once again, we could save money. This would result in improved tax and insurance collection, increased efficiency and efficiency of control and recovery. The administration would be reduced by tax and insurance payers, because in practice they would only communicate with one office. Ladies and gentlemen, the above are just a bunch of examples and mistakes to change, lower the system and raise more money for both patients and health care professionals and healthcare establishments to outline the views of our SPD movement on how we should aim globally on health issues. Of course, there's no room for us to discuss the details. We would certainly agree on many measures, and it is a pity that we are not discussing this issue more, and if so, only on an accounting basis. That's what the Minister's doing here. So how much do we add to the nurses, how many doctors or hospitals without solving the reasons why they have so little money, or why they have so little of the billions that flow into the system. So thank you for your attention and we look forward to having the opportunity to promote and discuss our proposals with the government coalition as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u8	Thank you. And before I invite another speaker to the general debate, I'll introduce you to your apologies. Mrs Krutáková apologizes to us from 14.30 to 19 o'clock because of the hearing and Mr Pražák between 11 and 18 o'clock for family reasons. And now, since we are already in the debate, it is my turn to make factual remarks, so I beg Mr Strýček. Mr. Válek will follow. There are five real notes at the moment. Is Mr. Strýček here? [[Yes, he doesn't want to get off.]] Mr. Strýček seems to be interrupting his comment. Please, Mr Válek Member, Mr Brázdil will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u9	I'm sorry I got ahead of myself, but my nerves didn't give it to me because comparing the quality of our health care with what was under communism is a total outrage. It's like we forgot that there was a SANOPZ where the papals were being treated, and they didn't care about the common trash that were the others! It's like we forgot about the import medications that were just for comats, and the others didn't even get laid! Please, what are we talking about here? Yes, health care has huge problems, there's a huge amount of trouble. We can really talk about whether it's a crisis, but comparing it to the horror that was here under communism, no one who's got any decency at all can afford it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u10	I would now ask for a speech on Mr Milan Brázdil's factual comment and Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u11	Thank you. When I see 12 logged in, I'm sorry, Minister, technical. Maybe abused, but still. Colleagues, colleagues, all of us, as we are here, we have some medical experience. Someone as a patient - although I am a doctor, also a patient, I also lost a kidney five months ago due to her tumor, well, and as a doctor I have experience also some. We have luxury health care. Seven percent of GDP is a luxury! That's as far as it's gonna go. We're all here criticizing how bad it is. Yes, we can criticize here from morning to night, but you know what, let's make a deal. We're about to sort of approve the budget. Let's pick up the culture. I mean, culture doesn't die there, so they'll be kind of... So let's make a deal. Let's raise it to ten. Not nine, nine is average! To be better, let's go to ten. Do we want it? I'm all for being a patient, even as a doctor. I wanted to get out, maybe I wanted to pick it up a little emotional, but I have a bad feeling about it. You can only look at health care with the pure optics of a doctor who is overworked, who is dehonested for a morning after a night yawn. Well, hell, he didn't sleep! But the patient wants to be treated. He's gonna complain. Then we have to say what we want. Minister, I don't envy you at all, it's complicated, in the ambulance at all - 14 originals, 14 counties, everyone's on their way. It hasn't happened yet. I'm fisting you, but we're all here to share in this. And now I don't know exactly how, but it's definitely not a sustainable state. Seven percent of GDP is just not enough! It's not enough! Ladies and gentlemen, it's not enough! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u12	Thank you and I will now ask Mr Bohuslav Svoboda to speak and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will prepare himself. Furthermore, in order, Mr Member, let me read this, so that Members can see the order in which they are: Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Mašek, Mr Vyzula, Mr Luzar and Mrs Maříková. So far, these are factual remarks. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u13	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, following my previous speaker, I also say that I have lifelong experience with health care, and probably the greatest of all of you. I've been in the third generation of the medical family, I've been doing this profession for over 50 years, and there's little I haven't seen in that time, which is why I say quite fundamentally: Talking about whether we have enough money or not, as anyone is paid, is right. I'm sure these people are supposed to have more money, but we can only do that by changing the concept of health care. At present, with the current concept, you just can't get the money. Every year, you're gonna have to do the game if you don't make the law about the distribution of funds, and if you don't change the system, the money in the health service will never be enough for salaries, devices. And the change in concept must be fundamental. Then I must say, it is strange, through Mr President, I must address Mr President because he said something that I cannot deal with after more than 50 years of medical practice. He said that the workplace that treated the patient worse for the benefit, treated her badly, and the patient was damaged by it. With the utmost seriousness of what I know about health care, I say that such cases do not just happen, but do not happen. It's just not possible in our profession. Whoever says that, lies, insults all of us, creates an alarm message. And it's a fact that I can't deal with, and with all my strength here, I object to someone saying that in the House's attic! [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u14	Not that I want to interrupt you, but the time is up. I will now request a speech from Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u15	Good afternoon, my dear colleagues, dear Vice-President, Minister. I would very much like to talk here really about the gros we wanted to talk about today, that is, the current health situation. KDU-ČSL does not want to talk about the crisis, but wants to talk about the threats that are in Czech health care. [[12.50 hours]] Unfortunately, I have to follow up on the words of the Professor Svoboda. And now I will speak to you, Mr Vice-President, through you. For me, too, your words were when you implied - and indeed if you didn't have the immunity of an MP, it would be up to you to sue or file a criminal complaint against you for spreading an alarm report. If you're making the impression that some smaller hospitals treat oncological patients in a way that makes them profit, it's really incredible. I don't know if you know how the cancer care system works. Today, even in the smallest hospital, if the patient's tumor is detected, the patient is consulted in the oncology team at the oncology center, his treatment is set up and she has some steps. And in a number of cases, it starts with the surgery. And then there's the other modalities, and it could end with the proton center. But saying here that some of these articles are doing it for their profit, that's really spreading the alarm message. What's the public gonna think about that? I firmly hope that you will take back your words, those words that may have been ill-advised, because this is not what our patients deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u16	Unfortunately, I can't respond to you because we finish at 13:00 and there are so many factual remarks. Otherwise, I'd like to respond. So I'll respond personally to you, I'll come to you, and I'll tell you where I got it from. But I can't react more from the position I'm sitting in right now. It's kind of an awkward situation for me, but I'm not taking my words back. Another is here with the factual remark of Mr Mašek. Your two minutes. Mr Vyzula will be prepared, Mr Luzar, Mr Maříková, Mr Richterová will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u17	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no problem with any health system around the world. There's a lack of finance everywhere. I would like to comment on the current situation, because we are not going to solve health care here. As my colleague Kaňkovský said through the President, there are, of course, threats, but there is no crisis. I'm sure there's no current crisis. The whole thing came about by the insurance companies publishing that they have several tens of billions in their accounts. At that point, the unions quite naturally reacted by wanting something out of the money. Just for the record, a few numbers. The tens of billions are running health care for about one month in case the influx of funds to health would completely stop. Or virtually to hold health care if it doesn't work out, maybe for two years. The money really has to stay there, and it's impossible to spread it across a system that's not ready. He's ready to shred them, but he's not ready to use them effectively. So that's one point of view. And who's been in touch? There have been two segments that, oddly enough, aren't the worst in the distribution of funds for next year. The average increase in finance for next year is 7.7 %. There's been a deal with 12 segments, two of them haven't made a deal. And it was hospitals, they get 8.2% extra, and it's a segment of home care. It gets almost 16 percent extra. I think there's room for managers of these medical facilities to raise their salaries adequately. It's up to them. I think it should be over by now that the Minister will send a signal that wages will rise by so much and so much percent, because he doesn't even have the reach. He may say some assumption, but mostly the facilities in the counties are not in the hands of the minister. He can claim this about his faculty hospitals, whereas he does not actually have any influence on the level of wages in the regions. [[Attention on time.]] So that's what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u18	Next in line, MP Vyzula. Mr. Luzar, Mr. Maříková, Mr. Richterová will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u19	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as an oncologist, I simply have to oppose what Vice-President Okamura has said here, and oncologists have stood up for both Professor Svoboda and Dr. Kaňkovský. It is not possible to extract one example from the whole context. Oncologists like the only ones in this country have set specific rules, standard procedures, the so-called guide line, which are called the blue book. They have established complex oncology centers, which are guaranteed by the Ministry of Health, and I think that care in oncology is exemplary. I believe that Vice-President Okamura, through your Vice-President, did not mean this as a global one, but he set an example that he may not know much about. One thing I would like to say in this brief reply to previous speakers is that if health needs anything, I would like to call on both the House and the Ministry and the Senate and the citizens of our Republic to have a general debate on the state of health and to set out a long-term strategy for the development and state of our health. If we don't set up this strategy, we'll only be talking about individual segments of care, and we'll rip it out and basically just put out a fire in one or another area. We need a clear long-term vision, a health strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u20	Thank you. I'll read two apologies quickly. Member Helena Válková between 14.30 and 18.00 for working reasons and Mrs Lenka Dražilová from 14.30 to the end of the day of the hearing. And now, MP Leo Luzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, and I wanted to speak with you to a colleague of Válek who is not here, so I will allow him to come to the O.R. for a moment. We opened this point for one simple reason. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia wants to look into the future and offer some solutions, talk about it and look for a discussion under the flood of those emails and information that is coming at us, free money, not release money, trade unions strike, doctors, go abroad. That's what's in the company. That it's being played by honored colleagues and colleagues in this House, and they're saying their examples, but outside this House, it just affects those people, let's be aware of that. And it's quite a serious matter of how they perceive the state of health from this point of view. As they actually look at a field they don't understand when doctors talk about it like that, doctors talk about it like that. It's a tragedy. Let's just say that. And since my colleague Válek isn't here, there's a line for his performance. Mr Válek, yes, before November 1989 everything was not okay, but health, health was one of the things that the whole of Europe envied us. Prevention, medicine, dental medicine, children's medicine. And if you say that the doctors then treated these people as a mob, that they treated them as inferiors, then I must ask you, Doctor, when did you graduate from which year you work in medicine and how you approach people? Because I dare not say that the doctors then, many of whom continued their medical career after 1989, were bad. I think they've done a lot of good work, and there's nothing to be ashamed of about this approach that everyone who was wrong before 1989. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u22	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Now, Mrs Karla Maříková. And it's probably the last thing in fact because it's 12.58. We'll see. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond here to Mr Brázdil through Mr President. You said here: we'll take the money somewhere else and put it in health care. Well, I'm in. Nonprofit organizations are due to receive 5.68 billion next year. That's 210 million more than this year. I think health services will use them much better, but I don't know if your ruling coalition is voting. So let's vote that we put all this money in health care instead of nonprofits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u24	Well, thank you. And now, Mrs Olga Richterová, with a point of fact. That's how you figured it out. You're lucky. Please, your two minutes and I won't interrupt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to respond unexpectedly to the previous speaker here, because this is a huge attack on nonprofit social services organizations. Please, we have in this country incredibly good nonprofit organizations providing really needed services that our state cannot provide, and this flat-rate attack on the amount of 5 billion, which really, for the most part, goes into this segment, is totally unacceptable. I believe that, through the President, the Member degenerates the work of these people, which is undervalued. We are constantly unable to increase their salaries in time, and they do not really deserve this. I really find it completely inappropriate to have these flat-rate attacks on non-profit organisations. On the subject of today. It's obvious we won't be able to negotiate it. It was clear here that we actually lack a completely long-term strategy on how to improve conditions in Czech health care. I would like to remind myself of a number that shows that the problem is really serious, and I will just remind you that we actually have a point of contact with health care as a physician, where 56% of current practitioners are 55 years of age plus. So 3,000 practical doctors will be retiring soon. I know the Minister said that, but that's exactly what we're gonna have to deal with as a whole company. I just want to point out that this is exactly the kind of thing that is, of course, a long-term thing, and that is why it is up to this House to deal with these strategic forward-looking things, and that this debate has slipped unnecessarily to individualities, which I would like to point out through the President that it has been a real shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u26	Well, thank you. We've got 13 o'clock, I'm declaring lunch break. I'm interrupting the meeting, and I'll see you at 2:30 p.m. at the interceptions. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-12-ps2017-034-03-007-314.u27	Madam, honourable Members, Madam Secretary, it is 14.30 and we will continue to discuss the 34th meeting. Before I open the next point, I'll introduce you to the note cards. Mr Petrtýl apologizes to us for this afternoon's meeting for working reasons, Mr Dvořák from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for health reasons, Mr Jiránek from 14.30 to 18.00 due to the hearing, Mr Jiří Kohoutek from 15.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons, Mr Strýček from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons, Mrs Balaštíková from 14.30 to 15.30 for working reasons, Mr Kasal between 14.30 and 19.00 due to doctor's visit, Mr Řehounek between 14.30 and 19.00 for working reasons, Mrs Mauritzová from afternoon's meeting for working reasons, Mrs Kozlová between 14.30 and 18.00 due to the hearing and Mrs Golasowská from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day. The next item is
