ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u1	43. Government bill amending Act No. 383/2012 Coll., on the Terms and Conditions for the Trading of greenhouse gas emission allowances, as amended, and Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended /German press 483/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Environment Minister Richard Brabec. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u2	Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u3	And I'm gonna ask for some peace in the O.R. If there is still a need to discuss the point that we have discussed, please do so in the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u4	Thank you, President, for standing up for me, it was a nice but not very successful attempt. However, my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u5	One more time, please calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u6	After a purely political debate, I will now be a little technical, but I dare say that this amendment to the law is very important. I'll give a brief explanation, and then, if necessary, to your questions. This is an amendment to the Act amending Act 383/2012 Coll., on the terms and conditions of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. Let me just remind you that the European emissions trading system has been operating since 2005 and its purpose is to promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient way. The submitted government bill implements the latest EU legislation governing the setting-up of the European emissions trading system into the Czech legal system. This is primarily a revision of the 2003 allowance trading directive, which was published in March last year and which brings some substantial changes for the coming period 2021 to 2030. It mainly addresses the surplus of allowances on the market and makes the system more effective so as to motivate participants to invest in low-carbon technologies through the price of allowances. Furthermore, it provides sufficient allowances for free allocation of sectors that are threatened by loss of competitiveness. That's what they call it. carbon leakage, in English carbon leakage. The English translation is kind of ridiculous, but it's basically consistent. Furthermore, it creates new financial mechanisms to enable Member States to support investments in the modernisation of energy and clean technologies. Furthermore, the reformed EU ETS system allows Member States to make use of certain exceptions, and the proposed amendment to the Act first exempts small emissions installations up to 2.5 thousand tonnes of CO2 per year from emissions trading. These devices account for approximately 18 percent of the total number of installations in the Czech Republic and at the same time only seven hundred percent of all emissions within the EU ETS system. This means that the administrative burden will also decrease for owners of those small facilities, which are about 50 in the Czech Republic. In addition, they are introduced so-called compensation of indirect costs for increased electricity prices for energy-intensive industries that are effectively threatened by foreign competition. According to the proposed text, the government will each year determine the amount for this purpose and the Ministry of Industry and Trade will decide to grant compensation to eligible applicants. [[18.00 hours]] And what is very important, as a new financial instrument to support investment, is the establishment of a so-called modernisation fund. We are one of the ten countries in Europe that will have this modernization fund. We estimate funds for the Czech Republic in this fund for the period 2021 to 2030 depending on the price of allowances for more than CZK 100 billion. So this is just in the future the key source of funding from which renewable energy projects can then be financed, energy efficiency increased and greenhouse gas emissions reduced. In the Czech Republic, these funds will be managed by the State Environmental Fund and the way they are used will then, within the framework of the rules laid down by European legislation, co-ordicate the newly created inter-ministerial body, the so-called Council of the Modernization Fund, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Finance. The reform of the emissions trading scheme relates to the following trading period, that is from 1 January 2021, and therefore it is proposed to take effect on 1 January 2021, only a smaller part of the amendment is expected to take effect immediately after its publication in the Collection of Laws, let us assume this year. Let me conclude by saying that in the coming years Czech energy and industry are expecting significant changes, which will consist of a significant decline in the use of fossil fuels, and the EU ETS will offer a number of financial instruments in the post 2021 period that will allow the opportunities of developing low-emission technologies to be fully exploited. I will just say, for the sake of interest and information, that after a significant increase in the price of emission allowances, which has increased almost five times year on year and is currently somewhere between EUR 20 and 25 per tonne, what Czech companies, which are currently around 300 in the EU ETS system, are buying what they are currently worth about a billion euros a year. This means that already Czech companies are buying emission allowances for around EUR 1 billion and, of course, it is expected that the emission allowance price will continue to grow and, on the other hand, it is a great incentive for further measures to reduce emissions. The deadline for the transposition of the directive is 9 October 2019 and, given this deadline, I would also like to propose to the Chamber of Deputies that, in accordance with the provisions of Section 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shortened the discussion of this proposal in committees to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u7	Thank you, Minister. I will ask Mrs Dana Balcarová to take the floor as rapporteur for the first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to sum up a few things. It's a government novel. The government approved the proposal for this amendment 13. 5. 2019. This amendment will change two laws. First of all, it's Law No. 383/2012 Coll., on Trade in Emission Allowances and Act No. 458/2000 Coll., the so-called Energy Act. The amendment is intended to implement a revision of the European Directive for the fourth emission trading period for 2021 to 2030. I would like to stress that this amendment, which deals with the relevant regulation, the European Commission Directive, is in line with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol for emissions trading, which defines the emission allowance trading system as a strong economic mechanism aimed at limiting greenhouse gas discharges. As the Minister has already mentioned, there has been a large price increase in this system of commercial allowances, and the whole system works better and finally fulfils its regulatory function, which means that it is better for polluters to limit discharges and to innovate technologies than to pay for discharges of the price that is determined by emission allowances. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this year's revenue from emissions trading will be up to 12 billion. Crowns, maybe 15 billion. It is quite a lot of money and it is much more than it was in previous years. For me, as Chair of the Committee on the Environment, it is striking that the amendment proposes a reduction in the binding resources to go to climate protection and energy efficiency, and reduces the amount from 12 billion. $8 billion. I would also like to stress that this amendment, or this increase in money in the system and its revenues, is a great chance for industry and energy in the Czech Republic. There will now be resources to divert from fossil fuel dependence, and it is a great challenge for us to make very good use of these returns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u9	Thank you. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Jan Zahradník is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on this draft law, which is apparently well-set between the ministries and among the various other groups that may be concerned, but I would nevertheless like to say a few words about it. The Minister assumes that we know that the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system is well known to us that we know that it has been introduced to achieve a long-term ambitious target of 80 to 95 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 compared to 1990, so that it is a kind of instrument that we want to achieve this relatively ambitious objective, that it is an instrument that sometimes stifles, which sometimes dulls itself, that it is a very problematic instrument that can even turn against its users. We know well, for example last year, I think, or at the beginning of the current year, we have solved here in the House a problem that occurred when the price of allowances suddenly rose sharply, I don't know, from 8 euros per permit, from 5 euros to 25 euros. Back then, we did not know any other way, and consensually reduced the value added tax to heat, which significantly helped our heat plants. So the problem with the tool is obvious. The goal to meet the trade in allowances is to move again towards another goal, namely to successfully fight climate change, i.e. the fight against global warming. Here from the past period we have probably good experience from the debate on this topic, which has been going on for quite a long time. The opinion in the opinion-making group in the Czech Republic, and therefore in Europe, that climate change is a kind of divine punishment for the activity of people in energy production, burning fossil fuels, that it is a threat to the existence of humanity, that climate change must be combated and that it is not allowed to doubt that climate change is solely caused by human activity, that it is somehow impossible to doubt, although some scientific conclusions call into question the theory that the current climate change is caused by humans. It is necessary to rediscover the physical research of Mr. Nikolov and Mr. Zeller, who in their study write that greenhouse gases do not actually affect the climate on Earth, but that this climate affects some more complex thermodynamic effect of atmospheric pressure. [[18.10 hours]] I know that this scientific conclusion has certainly already been called into question, and other scientists, for whom the fight against climate change is part of their ideology, have questioned this scientific work, but we must realise that it is not only 100% proven, it is not just one hundred percent sure that climate change is caused by human activity. It goes so far that anyone who dares to question the evidence that this is one of the many climate changes that has occurred, who dares to claim that this is a change that has occurred in the history of the planet and which will occur in the future of our planet, one of those cyclical climate changes that our civilization has witnessed and that there are records of, so this is called a denial of climate change. The word "denier" is used quite unfairly and dishonestly, because in Czech and European context it has a very negative meaning, a very negative connection, because it has been used for a long time usually in conjunction with the Holocaust denier as a designation of those who deny the existence of this mass murder of Žid by the Nazi German regime. That is why I think that even here, it is necessary to have a relatively considerable degree of tolerance and to take note of a little different opinions than those identified by the world's scientific environmental mainstream as the only valid one. I would take the liberty, because I am quite well known here in the House as a person who is critically talking about climate change, reminding and thinking about this change a little differently, from an economic point of view. So we can ask ourselves what this will mean for the gross domestic product in each country in the reference period from the present year to the year 2100, which is such a marginal time, the years to which our plans relate. It's a strange plan. During the last parliamentary term, there was repeated a number of examples of how our ancestors probably planned the life and course of the 20th century on its beginnings, what they had promised him and what they had assumed to accomplish by the year 2000. What happened, we know, it records history, eventually one of those events, the Russian occupation in 1968, we were talking here a while ago. But now back to the economic influence. According to the Stanford University project, which was presented as a scientific conclusion and research, the effects of climate change by 2100 will result in a decline of gross domestic product mainly in countries of Africa, Latin America, Australia and China. On the contrary, climate change will contribute to the growth of gross domestic product in most countries of the European Union, Russia and Canada. In the Czech Republic, for example, a climate change study expects GDP to rise by 102 percent per capita by 2100. By 102 percent compared to the situation, if climate change, as we expect it to take place, did not occur. Maybe you'd like to say it's not that bad. The Stanford University study has as its part the curve that shows the dependence on GDP per capita in our country, but also in other countries at a time. [[unintelligible]] The curve is growing very steeply. There is also a certain area around the curve, as it is in such graphs, expressing a certain degree of uncertainty about this current expectation. The degree of probability that climate change will cause us to fall GDP per capita, which also needs to be mentioned. Thus, the likelihood that GDP per capita will fall by 0 per cent due to climate change, i.e. that there will be no warming to GDP, is 4 per cent. The decline by more than 10 percent has a probability of 3%, more than 20 percent is just 1%, and the decline in GDP per capita by 50 per cent due to climate change has a probability of 0 per cent, so it cannot occur at all. Perhaps one of you is wondering what kind of courage it is to say such incorrect data, such a special connection. After all, today, when I applied it in one of the debates in the Czech Radio, the host also responded as if I wished this increase in GDP as a goal that I was rooting for climate change. Well, it's not exactly that. It is simply that this link to the website of Stanford University is located on page 23 in the explanatory memorandum of the proposed bill, in the summary of the final report of the RIA in our Houses of the Press. So, in fact, the Minister tells us indirectly. So it might seem that the climate, the climate change, should be combated mainly by countries that, according to the study, are really bad at it and therefore where a reduction in GDP per capita is expected to be greater, or even significant, such as China, Latin America, Africa, the US, which, of course, are countries that do not fight significantly, which do not fight against climate change as much as the European Union, which, on the contrary, many of them, is based on the fact that any environmental principles are essentially ignoring. We will not talk here about supporting climate change, because it will bring us an increase in GDP of 102 percent, but it is also possible to perceive some information transmitted to us by the Minister in his Houses of the Press. Finally, there's a risk assessment in that chapter 1.6. In addition to this risk, others, which are already serious risks of environmental, social or security, are listed. Of course, the impact of these changes on Africa can cause even more dramatic migration than we have seen, for example. in 2015. So I'm going to conclude that, despite the great doubt and the great concern that this emissions trading system might even bring in the future, I'm aware of what the Minister said that it has meaning, that this thing is arranged with partners. That's why I recommended it as an environmental expert for the ODS club to release it for second reading. In addition to the possible effect of the volatility of the allowance price on the economy of individual countries, especially on the fossil energy, I have just concluded that there is nothing to mention here that they were being brought against the scheme of trade in allowances in 2007, 2009, 2012, nor any information on how these actions were conducted. So this, too, can be ruled out by the press. Thank you for your attention. At second reading, then, we will look at this press in much more detail and, if necessary, try to find out what I could put forward as amendments. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u12	I will respond to my previous speaker, through you, Mr Zahradník. I really appreciate his always careful monitoring of environmental matters. We have already worked together in the past - certainly also in the future - in Sumava and elsewhere. Perhaps the only difference between the two of us in these matters is that the Member always speaks for a long time and I always speak for a very short time. Well, I'll just make it simple. We are against trafficking in poverty, we are against trade in dirt in the air, and we are also against the headless adoption of European directives. We'll be against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u13	Thank you for keeping time, for being brief. Mr Luzar is next in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to open to this issue a question which has not yet been raised too much, although the rapporteur has already mentioned the importance of this law to industry and energy. I want to recall the energy concept of the Czech Republic and the European Union's energy mix. These are documents that determine the functioning of an energy or fuel complex throughout Europe for decades in advance. We are faced with a decision when the Czech Republic, as one of the few countries of the European Union, is promoting nuclear power as such in the energy mix. We perceive hysterical screams that echo from Germany, which say, "Never again, the core never!" they say that the coal footprint of fossil-based energy must also end, and they are seeking salvation in resources that, let's just say, are not yet as energy-rich as the said core. I don't know how much you realize what a landscape would look like in the Baltic if the waves that move there were power-based power plants. Or go to Denmark to see what the coast of this once beautiful territory looks like, now sown, rough-seeded fans that produce electricity, just to proceed to something that we are not yet able to handle technologically or technically fully, and we are merely looking for a solution to the future of potential energy independence on both fossil fuels and, of course, at the core. The problem with the energy concept is that Europe does not know how to regulate and push its individual members of the European Union to invest more and be more open to the environmentalisation of these resources. I would like to remind you that the Czech Republic has gone a little different way. The Czech Republic quite significantly regulates and forces all air sources and polluters to adapt to the environmentalization of emissions that they release into the air. As an example, I can use a good experience from the Moravian-Silesian region, which has forced large polluters to really invest billions of crowns in dusting, eliminating emissions and thinking about what it should look like in the future. Not all regions are, of course, successful, or not all regions perceive this problem as consistently as we do. It is also worth recalling that we are not talking about an isolated problem, but there is a problem that concerns Europe, and perhaps in our region of Moravian-Silesian it is Poland's problem. Poland has negotiated quite a long exemption from the European Union in the context of accession talks and the pollution that our region suffers from and is judged to be harmful and quite critical of citizens is mainly due to Poland. From the Polish smelters, which do not respect the limits set by the European Union and which we have long since fulfilled. I therefore point out that just to remove here as if the problem that greenhouse gas emissions and emissions in general are as if the problem of the Czech Republic and that we should adopt a clear position on this is not so much simplistic. It must simply be said that we cannot remove this point from the perception of the European context. And I'm going back to the energy concept of the Czech state, because we have a decision on the core before us. We say "yes, we want completion," but we're already passing by a little - first of all funding, but the problem will probably be resolved by the government in the foreseeable future - in the future. We're talking about some years ahead, but they're going to have a direct link to how it's going to be adopted and how emission allowance trading works and, in general, this... if I use the term business with ecology, I don't think I'm far from the truth. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] It turned out that the good idea that stood at the beginning of the idea of emission allowances as such had been quite heavily abused over time. I do not want to mention my words here, which I had here during the debate with ArcelorMittal and the allowance trade, when only the value of those allowances was in the billions, when they also tried these allowances, which are intended to be used to environmentalize the industry and this enterprise in the Moravian-Silesian region, to sell, or to offer and increase the value of the property -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u15	I will interrupt you for a moment and ask all colleagues to keep their voice down and allow the Member to speak. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I don't want to remind you of what many people have done with allowances who have started doing business with them. And those allowances, that's really a billion-dollar value, which even trades in the free market as indulgences, when I think of a period of history long ago when Jan Hus criticized indulgences in the church, so today we are in a situation that many of the emission allowances have become such an indulgence, such a commercial commodity that is quite highly valued on the market. This, too, may be a problem which will have to be combated by this House's press of 483. One thing that has not yet been mentioned here, even though it has been mentioned by the rapporteur, which I would like to conclude by pointing out and mentioning. This law can and will certainly significantly affect the lives of citizens of the Czech Republic. Of course, citizens of the Czech Republic do not buy allowances, so I am not naive. But citizens of the Czech Republic buy products that are directly related to the value of these allowances. They buy heat, they buy electricity, they buy gas. And these commodities, the resulting price of which is closely monitored by our citizens, are greatly influenced by emission allowances. And, as I have already mentioned, it has often been in my hands - environmentalists forgive me - often in the hands of environmentalists have become certain indulgences and a certain source of business. And I would not very much like this proposal, or even this law, to make it a kind of picture of something that we could then regret. I would very much like to appeal here to you, colleagues, to consider that this proposal will very much affect industry in the Czech Republic, namely the energy concept of the Czech state. Because I think, even if it is not directly called this, nor is it indicated in these materials, the energy concept of the states will be determined by their finances and the means by which these emissions or these allowances will be available to us in the future, and how the stocks or the resources from these allowances will be managed further within the industry. As a member of the Economic Committee, I am quite often thinking about this and in the Energy Sub-Committee we are discussing these matters quite closely. We are, of course, presenting the results of the work to the Economic Committee. And you know that one of our activities was to maintain the supply of heat as a central service to citizens, to be competitive with those small local topenists that provide or sometimes, at the moment, more cheaply secure the source of heat energy for citizens. [[18.30 hours]] Yet we approach this seriously and say that what has been built here, those remote heat distributions, the large energy sources that are able to supply large cities, are, in effect, highly ecological, because one large heat source would have to be replaced by dozens of small heat sources that have significantly larger emissions. However, the burden on emission allowances of these different sources is, of course, different because it is better to roll over, or it is better to trade in these emission allowances with one large one than some community of homeowners. When you imagine a panel house of twenty, thirty guerrillas, who make their own boiler and operate much alike on the market, they even show that they are able to save some funds compared to those connected to central heat sources. These are also things that I will observe in the context of this law, how far this proposal is capable and will affect this market here - I repeat the market again, it is not really about the environment, it is in the first sense, but the market that originated here with ecology. I would like to propose, and I assume that this proposal will be heard, because it has already been discussed in order for the economic committee to discuss this proposal, namely its subcommittee, which deals with energy, because this law will be quite certainly a cornerstone in the future - a beautiful recess - a cornerstone of how the Czech industry will operate in the future. It is simply necessary to think about this and not just to think of it as one of the European Commission's regulations, not only as one of the next steps towards the greener Czech Republic, but also to think that this will also have to be addressed from the context of the state's energy concept, the fuel complex of the Czech Republic and the general industry of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read two apologies. Mr Richter apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. And the rapporteur has applied for the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u18	Thank you. I would still like to speak in the debate. From what I have heard from my colleagues here, it is clear to me that the issue is very complex, and how money will be drawn from the revenues that will go into the Czech budget, and then from the modernization fund, where the same amount of money will go, that means over 100 billion in 2021 to 2030. Likewise, even greater funds are in the so-called innovation fund, which will be able to draw Czech companies from the European Commission and will be intended for investments in modernization of energy, increasing efficiency, development and innovation. So there's a lot of the resources that are going to be from trading with emission allowances. That is why we have decided in the Environment Committee that we will organise a round table where I would like to invite all interested parties to discuss the subject so that we can discuss it there. We invited representatives of the Ministry of Environment, representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and I hope that Members from the Economic Committee, the Sub-Committee on Energy and the Committee on the Environment will also take part. We've also invited senators. So you're all interested in this issue, you're invited. Let's discuss this on the environmental committee at the roundtable next Tuesday at 2:00 p.m. You're all invited. That's my invitation. And then I would like to say that, as rapporteur, I see the Minister of the Environment's request to shorten the time limit for negotiations between first and second reading as unfortunate, because this is a very complex issue and I would like us to have a lot of time to discuss. It's a big amount of money. It's hundreds of billions. So please, let's take as much time as this novel deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u19	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points. First Mr Munzar, then Mr Hájek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond to the rapporteur through you. It is not only about the end, about the ones you said here through you, that there are hundreds of billions that will go somewhere through a compensatory fund or a modernisation fund, but there are, of course, far greater consequences, and these are the consequences that my colleague Luzar has mentioned here. And that's the overall impact on the economy, because the money doesn't come from the air. That money's being taken somewhere, and it's being taken de facto from the final consumers. Here, emission trading has actually become an artificial financial derivative that makes things expensive. We can talk about what the real real real consequences of environmentalising individual installations are, what the actual consequences of improving the environment are, but we can also talk about what the actual consequences of this are to the living standard of the population. And if you remember, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the year, we were here in the tax package, and at the end of last year we were discussing the question of how the trading of emission allowances is expensive to trade in heat, and we were reducing VAT to compensate a little for the negative consequences of the whole process. I therefore support the discussion of this matter by the Economic Committee, because it is particularly about the impact on the economy. At the same time, I agree with the rapporteur that the request to shorten the deadline is too ambitious. It is a pretty important law and we should pay due attention to it, including time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u21	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u22	Mr President, this is not a factual point. I just want to go back to expressing my disagreement with the Russian Duma's progress. I've got no vote in 822, and I voted yes. So I'd just like to make a correction for the tape screen. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u23	Yes, thank you. A point of fact - Mr Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u24	Thank you. Just a quick note. I believe that this law will have significant implications for industry and energy, as well as transport. I believe that this will have socio-economic implications. Personally, it also seems important to me that the economic committee should also deal with this law. What needs to be said is that every step we take should not, at the same time, put our industry at a disadvantage in competition. Of course ecology is important. We are to take these steps. But we cannot discriminate against our Czech industry within an international competitive environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u25	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate. Is there any interest in final words from the Minister? [[It's not.]] The rapporteur? [[Yes.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would merely sum up the procedural proposals that have fallen here - on the one hand, it was the proposal of the Minister of the Environment to shorten the deadline between first and second reading, and on the other hand, it was Mr Luzar's proposal on the commandment to the Committee on Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u27	Thank you. Of course, at the right stage of the discussion, I will re-interview those committees. I am of the opinion that the motion for repayment or refusal has not been made. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I propose the commandment as a guarantee committee to the Economic Committee. The arguments have already been made. I can repeat them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u29	Thank you. I'm asking if there's another proposal. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So if you find the Committee on the Environment too one-sided, then I find the economics too one-sided. And I propose a compromise - a budget committee, which also falls very strongly into, because it is the determination of a significant amount of funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u31	Thank you. I see, if there is no objection, the counterproposals would be voted as they were said in order - economic, budgetary, then the environment. It's like... Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u32	I would suggest what suits me, I'm sorry, in the logic of the matter I would suggest - and if we vote on it, let's not debate it over the microphone - so that we vote on the economics first, if it didn't pass, it would be the budget, and if it didn't pass, it would be the Committee on the Environment. [[Member of the Faltynek bench: This was proposed by the President of the House. That's what he said. - That's what I said.]] Oh, I'm sorry. I agree with the President of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u33	I'm gonna print the tape at home, if you don't mind. [[Cheer up in the hall.]] I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. [[Gong.]] I will recapitulate that there have been three proposals for a guarantee committee. First, we will vote economically, then budgetaryly, then the environment. We all know what we're voting on. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 830. 174 Members are registered, for 126, against 21. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I propose a budget committee and, of course, I also propose an environmental committee where it should definitely be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-05-ps2017-030-06-018-043.u35	Thank you. I'm asking if there's still a motion on the next committee's commandment. It's not like that. So we will first vote on the commandment of the next committee to the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. I said, who's in favor, who's against? Voting number 831. Registered 173, for 58, versus 47. This proposal was not adopted. Furthermore, we will vote on the commandment of this proposal as another committee of the Committee on the Environment. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 832. Registered 173, for 153, against one. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as another committee. Furthermore, there was a proposal in the general debate to shorten the deadline for the second reading - I believe - to 30 days? Thirty days to 30 days, is that correct? [[The rapporteur agrees.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 833. Registered 173, for 71, versus 51. This proposal has not been adopted. This proposal will therefore be discussed within a standard period. This dealt with the first reading of this proposal. Thank you. I'm done with this point. Furthermore, according to the agenda of the meeting, I am opening an item
