ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending certain tax laws in the context of raising public budget revenues / House print 509/ - third reading At this point, when we finished the meeting, the President of ODS Stanjura was interrupted in his speech. And he wishes to continue. So in that case, it's easy. I see priority rights - President Výborný. [[Noise in the hall.]] Then I'll ask my colleague. And I'm gonna ask everyone to stay calm in the hall. Thank you. A meeting has been opened, a point has been opened if you have anything to discuss, please go to the foyer. One more time, please calm down! You may now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to follow up on my performance from Friday last week when I divided my performance into ten blocks. On Friday I introduced you to our position on the government's programming statement and the overall tax burden of taxpayers, and I informed you in detail of our proposal to abolish the supergross wage. So I'm going to continue with the structure. I would now like to focus on the proposal for the taxation of the technical provisions of insurance companies in quite detail. I think I will not reveal any secrets when I say that I have obtained a number of documents on this point from the Czech Insurance Association. I think it's perfectly legitimate, because the proposal directly affects this association, members of this association. So I will first introduce you to their position on this proposal in the Houses of the Press 509 and then we will go over it quite in detail, the main arguments that speak against this proposal, particularly against the taxation of technical provisions relating to life insurance. Before I begin, I have noted a debate on how long the legislative process is. However, for this bill, it still lasts about four months, which is certainly not an above-average period. Last time, I announced and reminiscent of our bill, which has been here for more than 12 months. So we're about four months after the press joined the Chamber of Deputies. If memory doesn't deceive me, we spent less than two days discussing this press at first reading, and at second reading, I think it was one day of discussion with how we dealt with it in the morning and afternoon. So, so far, the process is extremely fast when we compare it with the average length of discussion of the Houses of Press. The government approved this bill at the end of May. He then came to the Chamber of Deputies and part of the proposal is the proposal for technical taxation of insurance reserves from 1 January 2020, and, as rightly stated in the explanatory memorandum, it will apply first if this were approved from 1 January 2020. 1. 2020 that this would be effective and valid, so it would apply for the first time, the taxation, for the tax period 2020. This means, with regard to the technical taxation of reserves, the expected revenues are not at all included and cannot be included at all in the draft state budget for next year. So much for an introduction. This means that if we decide to modify or completely exclude the proposal here in the Chamber of Deputies, there will be no threat to the planned revenue of the state budget, as we have approved the basic parameters for next year. To date, the tax-recognition technical provisions which insurance companies have included in the accounts have been recognised. Newly, according to this proposal, tax eligible technical provisions should be created on the basis of the European Solvency II Directive. And one by one by the values of 11. This year's 12th year is to be taxed the positive difference between the accounting reserves and the solvency II reserves, which is approximately, if I round it up, the expected income of around 10 billion. This means that we simply figure out that the difference between the accounting reserves and the solvency II reserves is about 50 billion, at a tax rate of 19 percent, the expected yield is about 10 billion. With a rounded distribution of the expected contribution to the State budget in 2021 of around 7 billion. And in 2022, which is after the next election, about 3 billion. [[9.10 hours]] I will now introduce you to the comments of the Czech Insurance Association. The first indent, they called it "The Eating of the Future." As the reserves are currently lower according to Solvent II, the government proposes one-off taxation in the context of the transition to the new method over two financial years. It's a one-time income. At the same time, the money is to be used for recurring mandatorial expenses, which means that, at the latest, the third financial year will remain the mandatorial expenses, but will not be covered by any revenue from the taxation of insurance undertakings' technical reserves. - Like I said, it's about taxing 50 billion. Crowns. Since 2023, if the proposal had passed as proposed, it would no longer have brought any tax revenue into the state budget. The Solvency II provisions are part of the comprehensive calculations of the quantification of the required solvent and minimum required capital for the safe operation of the insurance business, while the accounting reserves must, in accordance with the principle of caution, ensure the ability of the insurance undertaking to cover all liabilities to clients. - The sentence is quite complicated. However, the difference is clear. The minimum reserves, which are harmonised within the EU under the Solvent II Directive, actually say that in order for a company to be licensed to provide insurance services, it must have those reserves at a minimum level according to the Solvent II. It is even higher in the Czech Republic, because our national regulator, which in this case is the Czech National Bank, does not consider the European-defined minimum threshold sufficient for a safe financial market precisely because insurance companies have to prepare for future coverage from insurance events of all clients. Another reason for reporting these two reserve levels is different approaches in reporting certain items. For example, these are deferred purchase costs, accumulated debts, future profits and others. Solvency reserves are subject to CNB supervision, but the Czech National Bank itself admits that it does not have enough detailed information and data in the framework of regular reporting to enable the correctness of the determination of the amount of Solvency Technical Provisions comparable to the depth of the audit work carried out by external auditors during the audit of the financial statements. - I'd just like to remind you here, I've said it repeatedly that it's just not true that the insurance company can determine the amount of technical provisions in any way. These are complex mathematical and insurance plans, an estimate of future profits and also an estimate of future costs. The critical area is the area of life insurance. This is actually where the insurance company is supposed to pay the tax on profits that haven't happened yet. Then I will give you a detailed presentation of a simple model example if a citizen saves about a thousand crowns a month, which is not a dizzying amount, as it looks with tax either gradual or one-off. The accounting technical provisions for life insurance are created according to the insurance undertaking of fixed and non-changing rules of insurance mathematics and their main purpose is to cover future claims of beneficiaries arising from insurance contracts. Thus, it is actually the money of clients who are ready for future performance in case, for example, there is a significant deterioration in the health condition, or even if there is a death or a significant reduction in the ability to perform work or other desired activities. Given that according to the methodology and according to the Solvency rules two - or Solvency Two, I think it is used more often - future gains are expected from reserves, their taxation will take place significantly in advance of and whether these uncertain future gains will be realised at all. The taxation of expected future gains in life insurance thus means the levy of tax on funds that insurance companies do not yet have, and in the event that there is not always generally uncertain assumptions about future developments over decades, they will not really have them in the future. That's a really unique situation. I think there are legitimate questions in this debate, and both supporters of this taxation and opponents are looking for answers to them. And I think that only in the detailed debate before the vote can we consider which arguments are in favour of which are opposed and which could have greater weight in our decision-making. I honestly admit that this debate is not a hundred-zero, that we too are trying to look at the proposal for the taxation of technical provisions realisticly and from both sides, not just from one side. However, there are three sides. Very often, the debate narrows down to only two sides, and that is the state budget and insurance companies, but we should not forget the most important party that simply does not exist in this simple tax mathematics, and these are insurance clients, and especially life insurance clients. And that's what we should be most interested in in the debate and the search for a solution. Nor about the revenues of the state budget, nor about the income or profits of insurance companies, but about stability and clients, that is to say, those who insured themselves especially in the field of life insurance. [[unintelligible]] So let's go to a block of questions and possible answers. The first legitimate question is how the recognition of reserves will change. Today, the tax-recognizable technical reserves of insurance companies are formed under the Accounting Act. This is to be changed and the Ministry of Finance and the government as a whole propose to take into account the reserves calculated under the rules of the Sovency II. However, these so-called Solvency Rules were created to establish a minimum and optimal safe level of capital. In some of the previous speeches, President Kalousek described complex negotiations at European level, when the Czech Republic was in a position that corresponded to the higher minimum value of these reserves. However, as part of the search for compromise, and I think that these were, in particular, countries from the southern wing of the EU, namely Italy, which actually pushed through the 50 percent value of the technical reserves under Solvent II, our Republic held that it would be better to have 70 percent. After all, this also corresponds to the position of the CNB regulator. If I interpret it correctly, if I don't, I'm sorry. So the regulator - in order for the company to be licensed to operate on this regulated market, must have reserves of 1,4 per cent according to Solvency II, which actually corresponds exactly to the position of the Czech Republic, which we have not managed to enforce at European level. If so, but, of course, we did not have it in our hands ourselves, but it also mattered about the opinion of many partners, so it would indeed be the 70 percent. Simple mathematics 50 times 1.4 is 70. The calculation of the reserves to be newly taxed under Solvency II does not actually follow directly to the other items in the accounts is conceptually different and therefore also contrary to the general accounting principles. For example, the deduction of future expected gains from the value of the liabilities is contrary to the principle of prudent accounting. Solvency rules, once again, have been created to establish a minimum optimal safe level of capital. [[9.20 hours]] The bill also shows certain elements of retroactivity because it has a retrospective impact on the activities of insurance undertakings, i.e. on previously created accounting reserves for individual previously concluded insurance contracts. It is, in principle, a sanction against insurance undertakings fulfilling their prudential entrepreneurship obligations under the Insurance Act, namely the prudent valuation of liabilities, in particular future liabilities to clients. As a result, the proposed adjustment sanctions insurance companies for leaving funds that could be paid to shareholders in reserve for their clients, at a less prudent valuation of liabilities. Because if insurance companies didn't create those reserves, they would normally be part of the insurance company's income and would be taxed. However, they would be less resistant to some extraordinary insurance events. In summary, insurance companies that in the past have not paid their owners all the profit after deduction of only the mandatory minimum for reserves will be affected for this caution by a new tax with all the consequences for their future behaviour. Of course, it is up to the decision of the owners of the insurance companies, we can forecast with greater or less optimism whether, even if taxed, they will equally be motivated to create the same high reserves that will be subject to taxation or not. I think the question we're supposed to be dealing with is what is the mechanism for creating those reserves? Insurance undertakings shall consist of provisions on liabilities arising from individual insurance contracts, whereas for non-life insurance, the accounting technical provisions shall, in particular, consist of insurance claims that have already occurred and shall be dissolved when the insurance event is wound up. The accounting technical provisions for life insurance are created according to the insurance undertaking of fixed and non-changing insurance-mathematical rules and their main purpose is to cover future claims of entitled persons arising from contracts concluded. Therefore, dissolution occurs during the payment of insurance benefits, but this can often occur in the far future due to the long-term nature of traditional life insurance. We should know what the total amount of technical provisions is. In total, for the entire insurance sector, the technical reserves are around 300 billion. CZK, approximately 80 billion of which. for the market, not for individual insurance companies, they form technical provisions for life insurance, which is approximately 240 billion. Crowns. When we compare the amount of 300, according to Solvency II, it would be roughly 250, so we can see that the caution of our insurance companies is not several times higher than the rules of the Solvency II, but it is what our national regulator actually requires. The insurance, of course, has a temporal resolution. You, who have ever been responsible for the accounts, know how often these are problematic points, how often there is a debate with external auditors, which is subject to a time distinction not only in costs but also in returns. And part of those reserves is, of course, the temporal distinction of insurance premiums, where the part of the premiums covering the risks of subsequent periods must - must - must be transferred from law to the provision of unearned premiums, where this so-called provision represents only a historical traditional insurance terminology for a completely normal and logical time distinction of funds such as those common in any other sector or business sector. Any attempt to limit the tax deductibility of temporal differentiation in the case of insurance companies would thus be completely unique and would lead to discrimination against this sector against other sectors of the economy. Many advocates of this taxation claim the exact opposite that other entities subject to income tax in favour of insurance companies are discriminated against. Here I have tried to show you that if we deny the right to distinguish future costs and revenues in time, there will, on the contrary, be discrimination against the insurance sector as a whole. What could be the impact on the insurance companies themselves if the bill were passed in the submitted version? The measure affects the entire insurance sector, on average the insurance companies pay 90 per cent of the usual net annual profit, which is, I would say, an unprecedented one-off taxation of one business sector, and cannot actually be compared with the sectoral impacts of the discussed higher taxation or other levies in the same sectors, whether we are talking about banking, telecommunications, Internet giants and so on. When we look at publicly available numbers, insurance companies take 2.5 to 3 billion each year. corporation tax, which is 19 per cent of the pre-tax profit. The proposed regulation is therefore completely beyond this normal taxation. Moreover, the impact would, of course, not be evenly distributed among all the insurance companies. Higher reserves in insurance are always in favour of clients, their reduction leads to a reduction in the resilience of the sector, while insurance acts as a stabilizing element for the whole economy. Some insurance companies, and this is the difference in impact on specific insurance companies, would, according to this proposal, even pay 300 to 500 per cent of net profit as a one-off tax. And that can actually make a big problem. Imagine a company in another sector, which, out of the blue, should take... not out of the blue, after Parliament's decision to be precise, would have, over the course of two tax periods, to be precise, not one, but two tax periods, to make an additional of 300 to 500 percent of the net profit. In my view, these figures show that it could be tax discrimination, because this measure, this new tax, does not fall on all insurance companies in the same way, which is the result of the application of the Solvency II rules for the purposes for which these rules have not been created. Under the supervision of the regulator, insurance undertakings may use either standard formulas for the calculation of reserves or internal models that better reflect their risk profile. Taxation of future profits in life insurance can also mean the closure of the existing life insurance market, because if a new entity had an interest in entering the Czech market, it would have to pay taxes on funds that it has not actually applied to its clients. I was talking about the impact on the insurance companies, and now I'm going to talk about the impact that I think we're supposed to judge most carefully, and that's the impact on the clients. This is the third party in the debate on the taxation of the technical provisions of insurance companies. I think if it were accepted this way, we could reasonably expect a price increase. As insurance companies will be forced to pay part of their reserves as a one-off tax, they will miss the funds and will be forced to look for ways to close this gap. That is why I think it is realistic to expect an increase in insurance prices for citizens and companies. And now I'm gonna skip a little bit. I noted a repeated statement from the Minister of the Interior who claimed that the fact that insurance companies were taking part of their profits into the fund for - if I simplify it - the integrated rescue system did not lead to an increase in prices. I will then show you on a specific case that, of course, this led to price increases. It was a similar model when we decided by law that part of the profit is directed, as I would say, with a bow for a specific purpose. In the end, it turned out that the insurance companies didn't pay, but the way we warned about it eventually paid off the insurance clients. It's the standard economic behaviour of all tax entities. [[9.30 hours]] There may also be a withdrawal of excess capital. This one-off taxation increases the risk of the sector and thus the shareholders can demand a higher return. It is logical if you have a more risky business, so shareholders are considering future uncertain, risky situations, and therefore they are guided in the short term by an effort to increase profitability. Or, alternatively, insurance companies may decide to withdraw all excess capital from the insurance company in the Czech Republic and invest it in less risky countries that do not implement similar measures. I think that we have already discussed this in the debate at first and second reading, and we really have not found another European country that would tax the reserves under Solvency II. Of course, there is a risk if insurance companies have less money available, that investors' appetite for the sector will be reduced, which may lead to a reduction in the ability of insurance companies to invest in new services or to improve existing services. A small number of innovations may occur in this sector as well. And, of course, when we talk about the impact on clients, it may also have an impact on the investment return on life insurance, given that insurance companies may be forced to sell some of their assets early on at a disadvantage, which may also have a negative impact on the investment income on existing life insurance contracts. For those of you who dissentingly twist your head, so notice that I use verbs can, we'll see no imperative that this happens. It's just an estimate of future behavior, because in truth, who knows the taxpayers who happily pay higher and higher taxes? I confess that I don't know such taxpayers, but I can, of course, be wrong. But I stress that I have so far used words can, threaten, can happen, not that it will definitely happen, because then we can say that with a distance of three or four five years if such a bill goes through what impact it had on clients. What is the general risk in this sector? So here is the risk that today's legal entities, who have their registered office in the Czech Republic and pay taxes here, will convert to branches. This means that the shareholders may also consider other options for using the word, the verb, and one of the possible measures is that the subsidiary will be transferred to the branch. Therefore, they will cease to be supervised by the national regulator and any reporting, including the determination of the amount of technical provisions, may take place outside the control of the Czech Republic, to the country of residence of the parent company. This may cause the Czech Republic to lose direct regulatory control of a substantial part of the insurance sector, and I think we can agree in this debate that this is a sector that has not experienced any major shock over the past years. And I will also remind you of the tragic consequences of the floods in 1997 in Moravia, Silesia and in 2002 in Prague and other Czech regions. On the basis of an approved bill, the Ministry of Finance expects the tax to be levied about 10,5 billion. crowns that will be distributed within two years. This means that the greatest impact on insurance can be expected in 2021, when technical provisions to state 31 will be taxed if it passes. 12. 2019, i.e. for the 2020 tax period. This may also have an impact on newly negotiated contracts, especially life insurance companies, because insurance companies here will pay a tax on expected profits. The estimate of these gains is very dependent on the development of interest rates, inflation and others, at the time of the variables. The tax return in the first two years will be large, but then it can actually fall, and I will show you this in this particular example of the model of one life insurance contract. To put it simply, what the state would have collected in 20 years, it would have collected at the same time, or twice, and in the other years it would no longer be taxed, which could have reduced the income tax. I think it is fair to admit that the purpose of regulating the Solvency II sector has never been to use it for tax purposes, but in the first place to protect the sector, or to protect clients from the risks of financial markets. The results according to Solvency II always need to be understood in the context of the best assumptions for future developments, but they may not always be fulfilled individually in the long term. As a result of this volatility, the perception of reserves may change significantly in the future, and the solvency reserves may rise depending on economic developments and further developments. Then the question is whether, even then, the State will proceed to further taxation of these technical provisions, or will indeed only be a one-off operation. I'm gonna run away a little. The political experience of introducing taxes for a period of time turns out to be wrong if it is not in one term of office of one particular government majority. Remember - the excise duty on beer introduced by the administrative government, in the explanatory memorandum, was mentioned in 2009, as being considered for a year or two, for 12 years. Let us remember the measures to increase taxes for our government, which should have been in force for three years, and they have been in effect for seven years. This means that when something is done once, no one can rule out that the government, any other government, will return to use it again. The decline in tax revenues in the future may also occur due to the expected adjustments to the Solvency II rules. As I said, it is a harmonised European directive, and we cannot rule out that this development will go in a direction that the Czech Republic wishes that the compulsory minimum reserves under Solvent II will be raised, and that is mandatory in all the Member States of the European Union. First briefly, and then I will give you a detailed account of the comments that the regulator has taken on this part of the House's press, namely the Czech National Bank. One would expect that if the government decides to change the tax conditions for the financial sector, so that it will be in agreement with the national regulator and that after a mutual debate it will submit a bill that will support the Ministry of Finance, the government, but also the regulator, which is the Czech National Bank. It didn't exactly happen. So at this point, I will introduce you to three crucial comments from the Czech National Bank, which have not been heard in the framework of the standard inter-ministerial commentary procedure, which the government has no doubt right to do. However, given the fact that these are the comments of the regulator, this is at least non-standard. The first of the comments I want to give you in detail is that the two years on which the tax is distributed are, in the opinion of the Czech National Bank, insufficient time. Due to the significant impact of the proposed adjustment on insurance companies, the Czech National Bank considers the breakdown to be insufficient within two years. The Czech National Bank expects legislation to lead to significant pressure on liquidity. As a result of the new legislation, insurance companies will be forced to sell some assets, which may lead to future losses, as otherwise these assets could be held to maturity. [[9.40 hours]] In this context, the Czech National Bank draws attention to the risk of impact on clients, as the early forced sale of the investment portfolio may have a negative impact on the amount of profit shares attributed to life insurance clients. In the opinion of the Czech National Bank, one-off taxation will also result in a reduction of own resources, so that compliance with regulatory requirements cannot be excluded either. These are relatively strong words, which, of course, does not address the government and the government's majority of the opposition, but the national regulator. I think the Chamber of Deputies respects the position and independence of the Czech National Bank. And if the regulator claims that two years is insufficient time, that there is a risk of impact on clients, it actually confirms my concerns, which I was just talking about, that the bill adopted might have a negative impact on clients. He even says that there can actually be forced, in quotation marks forced, sale of assets, and thus a decrease in profitability, and thus an impact on clients in a negative financial sense. Another of the comments of the Czech National Bank, which I have chosen to introduce to you in more detail, is the content discrepancy. This means an objective picture of the difference in the amount of liabilities. The Czech National Bank draws the attention of the Government to the content mismatch between the scope of the liabilities included in the accounting technical provisions and the Solvency Technical Provisions. In the view of the CNB, a simplified comparison of the amount of Solvency and Accounting Technical Provisions does not have to give an objective picture of the difference in the amount of liabilities. Some reserves that are reported as technical in Czech accounting are considered non-technical reserves for the purpose of Solvency II. An example is the provision for fulfilment of liability obligations for liabilities of the Czech insurer's office. Other items in the accounts are called reserves, e.g. the provision for unearned premiums, but it is actually a time distinction, the solution of which differs from the accounting approach in Solvency II. There will therefore be double taxation of these significant items, which are recorded in a completely different way in the accounts and Solvent II. When we try to interpret this comment from the Czech National Bank, it actually says that the State, but neither the regulator, is able to establish the correct basis for the tax by a simple difference in the Solvency Reserve and technical provisions. For example, because the reserves identified as technical in the accounts are designated as non-technical in Solvency II. That is, if we consider the difference of Solvency II as the basis, then there is a different value of technical provisions than we would have expected. That's what the regulator points out, not the opposition. And I was just talking about that temporal resolution. In principle, the CNB has a similar view that it is a time distinction, even though it is called a reserve in accounting. In other words, the name of a particular accounting category may not mean that it is a technical reserve. I have not found in the explanatory memorandum how the government wants to distinguish technical provisions that are not technical but non-technical according to Solvency II, and how the government wants to proceed to a temporal distinction, for example. for the provision of unearned premiums. And the third, very serious comment from the Czech National Bank, is that there are no dates to verify the amount of reserves. The Czech National Bank points out that unlike accounting technical provisions that are part of the financial statements and are subject to external audit - that is, that is, about 300 billion. for the sector as a whole, these numbers are verifiable, verified by independent external auditors - for the Solvency Reserves, the regulator, the Czech National Bank, does not have comparable detailed information and data to verify the amount of these reserves accordingly. Moreover, this position of the Czech National Bank actually contradicts the argument of the Ministry of Finance that it is subjective, the amount of reserves, and those insurance companies can determine it as they want. However, the logical question arises if the difference between technical provisions in accounting and technical provisions under Solvent II is to be taxed and the second number cannot be verified by anyone, nor by the regulator who actually determines it. How much is actually to be deducted from the total technical provisions of insurance companies and how much will be the basis for tax here. I think that anyone who makes a tax return if he was unable to objectively and verifiablely state the costs in the tax return, and therefore, when I deduct it from revenue, he was not objectively and verifiablely able to determine the amount of the tax base, so he would have a big problem with the Financial Administration if it came to control. Because, logically, tax administration cares about costs and how the tax base has been established. Then the product of the tax base times 0,19, that's pretty easy to verify. And you know that in debates on tax laws, there is a much more important debate about what is tax-deductible, what is tax-recognizable, is much more complicated, more complex, also with a greater possible impact on the amount of a particular tax than the rate itself. Because it depends on a specific tax law, what is taxable, and there can be shifts in one direction or the other with the amount of the tax envisaged. So, when I sum up the three basic comments of the CNB that have not been answered: two years is too short a period, an objective existing discrepancy between the amount of liabilities under the accounting technical provisions and Solvent II and the inability to actually verify the actual amount of provisions under Solvent II for a particular insurance undertaking. Then it is very difficult to prepare the relevant tax return, and it is very difficult for the Financial Administration to check whether the tax has been paid correctly and in accordance with tax laws. A question which, of course, is on the table whether insurance companies could and should have prepared for such an intervention. It is true, and I think I read it last time, that there is a sentence in the government's programming statement that the government will prepare or enforce - now I don't know exactly what the verb was - the taxation of technical provisions, and that is also an argument for the fact that insurance companies could actually prepare here because it is in a publicly known document. And it's basically true. If the government discusses, prepares from the programming statement, receives the support of the Chamber of Deputies, so it is a public document and can be found there the expected steps or expected proposals of the government. However, in this particular case, according to my information - I would point out this, according to my information - the Ministry of Finance has promised that when a specific draft law is started, it will be in contact with the insurance sector and a concrete proposal can be negotiated. Unfortunately, none of this happened. According to my information, there has been no communication with this sector of our market. There was no communication with the professional public. Instead, the Ministry sent the motion into a short notice procedure. One of the arguments put forward in the debate was that insurance companies manipulate profits by creating excessive accounting reserves and pay less tax resources. The argument was made. I did not really notice that anyone in the Chamber of Deputies, any faction of parliament or club, would propose a reduction in the rate of corporation tax. Then we could ask whether a reduction of one or two, three or four percentage points is worth some risky accounting maneuvers with uncertain results that if I put it off and it passes, I'll save one, two, three or four percent of the tax. Compare it to the numbers I was talking about a moment ago - 300 to 500 percent of the average annual profit. If you compare it with one, two, three or four percent of the income tax, you'll find that the numbers are incomparable. And I don't think it's worth anybody betting on, even if no one's suggesting it. I think it's too theoretical. As a theory, of course, we can consider it, but practically... [[9.50 hours]] If, at the same time, the government had in its programming statement that it would enforce a severe reduction in corporate tax, we would have to address that argument. But it's not. I didn't even notice in any of the draft laws, and that we have them here, I don't know, over a hundred, that someone would propose a reduction in corporate tax. So I think the argument is theoretical, or the debate is theoretical, but it has no practical impact. In addition, in the opinion of the auditors, but also in the end, the Czech National Bank cannot change the rules from year to year, and insurance must comply with their approved rules when the provisions are created and dissolved. I've already talked about possible retroactivity towards past reserves. There is also a problem of taxation of future profits and also of different effects on individual tax entities. And there is such a nice term that is used in the case law and in the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and it is a so-called throbbing effect. I am not sure that in this case, if the proposal were to be passed, it would not be the throng effect of this tax law. I think if we seriously deal with the whole legislative process, and at the beginning I said that we have it in the House for approximately four months, which is not a long time, I will introduce you - I don't know if these are mistakes, I would say flaws rather than errors, or rather a missing part of the current legislative process. It has not been carried out on this particular proposal for an assessment of the effects of regulation, the so-called RIA, which I find inappropriate for this proposal. I don't know if it was intentional or unintentional, whether the reason was time, that it wouldn't have been ready seriously in time, but I think that's a shame, because it would have been the basis, we could have opposed the report or agreed with it. This message doesn't really exist, and we're here, when we're taking turns behind that speaker counter at the microphone, we're guessing what the implications of this regulation might be, and we don't have the RIA here. I was talking in the first block of my speech about the principle that is enshrined in the government's programming statement, which is good, and I appreciated it, and that is the principle of fiscal neutrality. And the way I see it, if I raise a tax, I lower another tax, and then it's neutral. We can talk about the structure of these taxes, about how much revenue is a specific tax, but tax-neutral, in other words in my understanding of the Czech language means that the tax burden will not increase overall. In this case, if we consider up to 90% of the taxation of annual profits, I think there is no clear way to talk about the principle of fiscal neutrality. And another mistake or deficiency, to be less strict, is, I would say, inadequately settled comments from both the sector and the regulator. I said a moment ago that the Government and the Ministry of Finance had every right to do so, but I would expect, if there are such strong reservations, strong reservations by the regulator, that the argument that these proposals, objections, proposals were not granted will be detailed and convincing. And then I've got a few things printed and yelled out here just from how the settlement of the comments received went. By using the shortened commentary procedure, I don't know if you all know this, that is, in this case you have 14 days to comment, so logically there was no settlement of those essential comments and there was no communication, and I would repeat this, with the insurance sector. Neither the Working Commission of the Government Legislative Council on Public Law II - Financial Law, nor the Government Legislative Council as a whole, commented on the bill. Again, I say that it is possible, I just do not consider it appropriate for this bill. So I'm not criticizing the fact itself, but I think it's a shame it didn't happen. Some comments could have been incorporated, or may have been rejected with good argumentative equipment, and this would certainly shorten our time of discussion in the Chamber of Deputies. That is the smile of the government's own rules, the RIA, working group of the Government's Legislative Council, the Government's legislative board as a whole, has set itself up by the government. Nobody forced her into this. The government makes their own rules, I think they're good, but then they break them. The only one who could complain is the government itself, and of course that's not to be expected, because - I repeat the third and last time that, the government can do this, I just don't think it's appropriate. Perhaps one paragraph, a few sentences, could be devoted to the Solvency II Directive. It came into force on 1 January 2016 and its aim is to set unified rules within the European Union to prevent insurance companies from entering insolvency, which is why it is called Solvency. It's supposed to prevent insolvency. And this Directive defines the rules for the reporting of assets, actuarial provisions, the calculation of the capital requirement in which the regulator already intervenes. Furthermore, insurance companies must calculate the Solvency Capital Requirement, which constitutes the economic capital that the insurance undertaking must hold in order to limit the probability of bankruptcy to 0,5 per cent. Of course, a percentage of zero cannot be expected in real life, but according to Solvency II, the probability of bankruptcy should be only 0.5 percent. This is true for all insurance companies operating in a united European market. That means one case would occur with a particular insurance company once every 200 years. We agree that the risk isn't too high, but if it was next year, then what do we care about and what happens to insurance clients that nothing will happen for the next 199 years, and that's also the problem of insurance as a sector. I will then remember the two devastating floods in the Czech Republic. Both had the character of at least a century, some to a thousand years of water and took place only five years apart. So the term big insurance event like 100-year-old water, 200-year-old water, 1,000-year-old water is technical, and that doesn't mean that if it happens this year, it can't happen for the next hundred years. I promised you, and I have it here, some model example of taxing future life insurance profits. I'm not gonna show you that picture, it's not too big, it's more for me to get into the text. So let's imagine a model example that is really common, that is, a contract with an estimated duration of 20 years and a monthly premium of CZK 1,000 and an expected margin of 10 percent. This means 10 per cent of the insurance company's margin, CZK 1,000 per month insurance premiums, duration of 20 years. This means 12,000 is an annual premium, with a margin of 10 per cent being the annual profit of the insurance company of 1,200 crowns, and of that either the profit is paid according to the current rules, that is, the first year is taxed CZK 1,200, tax is CZK 228, tax is CZK 1,200 tax is taxed CZK 1,200 for profit, tax is CZK 228, etc. And the last, 20th year, if it is evenly executed, once again, the insurance company's margin will be the basis for taxing CZK 1,200, tax CZK 228. In total, for 20 years, the insurance company will pay CZK 4 560 on income tax evenly from this one insurance contract, which is completely normal, and will receive CZK 972 per year. [[10.00 hours]] Let's try the same case, which means monthly premium of CZK 1,000, contract length of 20 years and margin of 10 percent, see how this would apply if this bill had been approved. The first year will be significantly negative in the resulting provision, as all future profits under consideration for the remaining 19 years of the insurance contract will be deducted from the minimum value of the actual costs. That means 19 times 1,200 is 22,800 - is the insurance company's profit in 19 years. And he'll get married. That means plus that one year, so the tax base is 24,000, which is twice the annual insurance, so that's it. the insurance company collects 12,000, the profit is 1,200, but the tax base is 24,000. That's 100 percent more than income. And the tax is going to fall, i.e. In the first quarter of 2021, the insurance company will pay CZK 4 560 tax on a total duration of 20 years. What will the revenue of the state budget be in the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth to twentieth years? Zero! Zero. That will reduce the revenue of the state budget. That means, on this simple standard case of life insurance policy, I want to show that this proposal taxes future profits over 20 years in advance. And they say it's not discriminatory. Do you know another business sector where estimated profits over 20 years would be taxed and taxed in the first year and the next 19 years would no longer be paid tax? I don't know that sector. I think that's the weakness of this life insurance proposal. The state doesn't actually make any money off of it. In the first and second cases the state will choose the same. Of course, the relative value of money is different, because if the tax is the same in 20 years and I have the same tax base, so given that inflation will work for 20 years, the relative value of tax income will be different, but in absolute terms the tax is still the same, it will only be collected after a year tax for the next 19 years. In other words, in the coming years, the government will be deprived of this money. Any government, any state budget. So really, if we look at it with common sense, it's going to lose its tax collection in 19 years. I don't think that's a good idea. I would say so much the basic comments of the professional organisation. I quite openly said that this is the material of the Czech Association of Insurance Companies, I quoted from it, possibly. I quoted from the opinion of the Czech National Bank. And now we're going to say, at least for those crucial comments, how the commentary procedure was actually taking place. The first thing I mentioned was the opinion of the Czech National Bank on the transitional provisions that fundamentally the bank does not agree with one-off taxation and - we propose to adjust the breakdown of this one-off tax reserve for x years, where the number would be determined on the basis of the outcome of the evaluation of the impact of RIA regulation. - So what does the Czech National Bank say? It doesn't shoot from the side, it doesn't tell us it's supposed to be three, four, five tax periods where the tax is to be spread. Quite logically and naturally, it says let the government process the effects of regulation. RIA and that RIA will show us what value is equal to x, which is the number of years those insurance companies should pay this tax. And what was the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on this crucial comment of the Czech National Bank: As regards the estimates of the increase in tax revenues, this estimate was still adjusted as some comments and legislative text were taken into account in the comment procedure, which also has an impact on the estimate of tax revenues. The intention to change the methodology for setting tax-recognition reserves in insurance has already been declared by the government in the Government's programming declaration, i.e. at the beginning of 2018, and the real impact of the proposed adjustment will be only in 2021, i.e. when the tax is paid for the 2020 tax period. So insurance companies have enough time to prepare for the change. If, in exceptional cases, an increased tax burden on a particular insurance company would adversely affect its financial situation, the Institute of Waiting is an appropriate solution... [[Silence due to noise from the left side of the hall.]] I've put up with it for a long time, but now the noise's too high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u3	I understand, okay. I will try to ask the House for peace. Colleagues who are discussing a subject other than the press of 509, please move your discussions to the lobby, so that Mr Zbyněk Stanjura has a chance to finish his speech. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u4	Thank you. So the Czech National Bank used expert arguments in its commentary that it asked for the development of the RIA to set a suitable long period for banks based on the impact assessment of this regulation, and the Ministry of Finance responded with unprofessional political arguments. [[unintelligible]] Of course, political arguments are quite legitimate especially in the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, but in communication between the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank I do not consider an argument of the type: we have it in the government's programming statement, dear Czech National Bank, so we consider your comment as such that we will not take it into account - that seems really little to me and that is what I said I lacked expert arguments there. I understand that if we, as representatives of the opposition, make political arguments against this proposal, the government can logically also use political arguments. But in the debate between the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank, I would not really look for a reference to the government's programming statement. The Czech National Bank did not just let it go and also wrote an official opinion on the settlement, and I quote that because it is very short: the Czech National Bank disagrees with the settlement of its comments and insists on conflict because it does not consider the breakdown of the tax obligation within two years sufficient due to the estimation of the impact of the proposed adjustment on insurance companies. - I think that the independent regulator, the Czech National Bank, does not judge the bill by whether or not it was in the government's programming statement, but by whether it may have an impact on the financial markets that the Czech National Bank guards by law. And that's how the national bank acted. Unfortunately, the government failed to comply with her reference to the government's programming statement. In order not only to quote the opinion of the government, opposition or Czech association of insurance companies, I drew quotes from renowned economists who work in the public space in the Czech Republic. On 11 June this year, a round table took place on the topic of taxation of the technical provisions of insurance companies. And I quote the main conclusions of the key speakers in this round table. I'm jumping to conclusions. Miroslav Singer - I don't have to introduce the long-term Governor of the Czech National Bank, who has long devoted himself to the stability of financial flows in the Czech Republic. Miroslav Singer said: In earlier years, we were more protective of insurance companies against other financial sectors, even in comparison with foreign countries. And this sector has shown great robustness. This saved the politicians a lot of money because they didn't have to take care of a sector that didn't work and spend a lot of money on this care. - In other words, the Czech National Bank says that by exercising strict supervision, it protected the stability of the market, and therefore the state and politicians did not have to spend taxpayers' resources bailing out an accident on this market. [[10.10 hours]] Miroslav Singer goes on to say in these conclusions: One of the more reasonable principles of taxation is to tax the future business, where everyone can decide whether to make it, both on the client's side and on the insurance company's side according to price considerations. The principle should not tax not sectors, but the whole economy. Should the sector be taxed, decisions that were not business but prudential should not be taxed. - In other words, the idea is not rejected in this speech by the former governor, but it says that it should only be within the economy and only for new contracts. And in those new contracts, the insurance companies would project new rules, new tax laws, and then it would depend on the insurance company, what the product will offer, and on the particular client, whether the product will be attractive to him or not, but it will be up to their free will. This proposal is already interfering with long-term contracts, and this may be the retroactivity I was talking about. Another of the speakers was Mojmír Hampl, I don't have to introduce either, the former Vice-Governor of the Czech National Bank, who says - and the first sentence is key: I do not consider this proposal wise from a purely fiscal and macroeconomic point of view. It is an effort to obtain a one-off fiscal income from which the Ministry itself has already declared that it wants to cover recurring expenditures, even mandatorial expenses. This makes sense in a very short horizon, but not in a macroeconomic perspective. In the public sector, there is still a resonation of the issue of foreign earnings from the economy, which still has one of the largest shares of foreign investment in GDP. It is absolutely paradoxical that this proposal is being made, which will actually mean that foreign owners will be able to take more resources out of this sector by taxing the technical reserves, because the tax will give them a fifth of the fiscal, but the rest will remain to the owners, using funds that were created from the money of local domestic policyholders in good faith and for reasons of caution. And says the former Deputy Governor of the Czech National Bank: This taxation can also lead to unexpected effects on the part of insurance companies and their owners, effects that I would call less stability in a sector that is dominantly owned by foreign players. It could be an important motivation for finding a way to convert subsidiaries into branches. You can see that in the expression of the former important members of the regulator, the concerns I was talking about are also emerging. And I don't think any of us can blame them for being the point of view of the opposition. This is the view of people who have successfully led the Czech National Bank for years. And the last quote that I have prepared, I think that in pension reform, there is already such an intriguing phrase by the Bezděkův Commission, proposals by the Bezděkův Commission and so on, and one of the speakers on this round table was also Vladimír Bezděk. Let me quote his views: This method of taxation is the worst possible attempt to get the required amount of funds out of this sector. We see a level of tax discriminatory, there is an extremely low technical quality of the proposal, the proposal is extremely distortionally harmful and the communication of the Ministry of Finance towards the sector is very poor. It gives the impression that the proposal was deliberately being prepared behind the back of the sector, that there is almost the ambition of the sector to punish something. - Those are the extremely harsh words of a renowned economist and not opposition policy. Another quote: I see in the proposal above all the potential risks to financial stability of the insurance sector. The proposal is aimed at essentially draining the capital of insurance companies in the value of roughly annual profits, for some insurance companies and for several annual profits. The tax will benefit each insurance undertaking, but it will not fall to all entities in proportion to their market size of profit or in any other indicator. There will undoubtedly be cases where, for example, a two-year profit is drawn from a particular insurance company and there will be cases where only a fraction of the annual profit is deducted. This will result in taxation penalizing those companies which hold their accounting reserves relatively higher than other companies today, and thus acting more cautiously for the benefit of clients, so that they are more likely to have long-term obligations towards clients, more cautiously in terms of fulfilling the care of a proper economy and in the interests of their shareholders and, in particular, of the entire Czech economy. A number of insurance central offices operating in the Czech economy in the form of subsidiaries could begin to analyse the transfer of the subsidiary to a foreign branch, as this mechanism would result from the supervision discretion of the Czech National Bank. Foreign branches report through the whole institution not to the Czech National Bank, but directly to the country's parent supervisory institution and data on the amount of the Solvency Reserves to be part of the tax base, so the branches would not have to report to the domestic economy and there is a risk that they could be exempted from this plan of taxation based on the Solvency Reserves in full or in part. Domestic entities, the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank, would then have less or no access to substantial information determining the tax base of these foreign branches, so I would expect the proposal to lead to unwanted consequences. I would not be surprised if the headquarters wanted to withdraw all the available free capital of their homes in the form of a dividend, on the grounds that taxation at the rate of one-year profits of the sector from the perspective of shareholders dramatically increases the level of risk of operating business in the Czech Republic. This measure is therefore economic shrapnel on the sector and the consequences can be extremely serious and I expect this to be the most reflected in financial stability. For example, if the tax base was in some form a new business or the value of a new business, and this tax might have the character of some x-percent premium, even though I am in favour of a more gentle state and generally lower tax quotas in the economy, I would accept that it is the legitimate right of the government to determine the rate of taxation and the rate of public expenditure. So I would at least look at whether the subjects would fall relatively similarly to their size, and that would satisfy this proposal, i.e. the principle of neutrality. There is actually a repetition of the opinion expressed by the former governor that, although they would not agree to this, if it were only for the new treaties, both economists acknowledge that it is a legitimate right of government that you can agree or disagree with politically, but would not interfere with already concluded insurance contracts. As the proposal sounds, it affects both non-life insurance and life insurance. The Ministry has not yet complied with the Czech National Bank's reminder to at least exempt life insurance. Here, with high probability, the proposal will sooner or later increase insurance premiums on the Czech market, because the environment will be significantly more risky for business. I have more quotes here, but I think it was enough to show that reputable economists warn especially about taxing contracts that have already been concluded in the field of life insurance, and they say, even though they disagree, if the government had decided to create new rules for new contracts, then it is already up to business plans for insurance companies and their future clients, I apologize if the impact of these taxes would be reflected, for example, in insurance prices, and everyone could freely decide whether they did or not. [[Speaker coughs]] Now I'm going to try a few words on the arguments that have so far been made in the public debate. I do not know whether it was on the Committee on Budgets or on one of the subcommittees, the argument was that the insurance companies improved their tax recognition by an amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies in 2000. To that end, the creation of technical provisions has always been tax-recognizable and over the years have changed the amount and method of setting the cap on tax deductibility. In the beginnings, the formation of non-life technical provisions up to 60 per cent of the premiums written was considered to be taxable and, in the case of life insurance, the entire formation of technical provisions was considered to be taxable. Here we see that at the beginning there was a different approach in life and non-life insurance, I would say quite logically, and there was a restriction in life insurance production, not life insurance. [[10.20 hours]] Those life insurance reserves, technical provisions, represented around 60-65 percent of the total reserve volume in the 1990s, now about 80 percent. Before lifting the limit in 1999, the actual percentage of non-life insurance reserves was 7,5 %, and the amendment abolished the limit I was talking about, and out of those 7,5 % it was 11 percent a year later. [[Proposal]] The more rapid increase in reserves in the following years was due mainly to the demonopolization of the compulsory guarantee, when insurance companies had to create reserves - an obligation imposed by the law to cover a deficit of approximately 5 billion, and in 2002 and 2003 the reserves for insurance events increased as a result of the damage caused by large-scale floods. If we simulate the tax deductibility of reserves up to 60 per cent of the premiums after 2000, that means that the amendment to the Chamber of Deputies had never been approved, that is, since 2004, after the period when the insurance companies made reserves after the extensive flooding and extensive damage, there has never been any provisioning beyond the original parameter of 60 per cent since 2004. That means 15 years ago. Even if the regulation were valid, over the last 15 years, insurance companies would not have exceeded the parameter that limited the amount of non-life insurance reserves. I will just repeat that in 2001 insurance companies dealt with enormous provision for liabilities from the old compulsory liability system transferred by the State to the Czech insurer's office, and in 2002 and 2003 those disastrous floods and enormous performance of insurance contracts. And I want to stress that all claims on insurance contracts have been paid without taxpayers' money. This means that, even after 2000, the State would pay only up to 60 percent of the premiums, including those years when the insurance companies responded to the change of laws, so the State would receive 9 billion. Crowns in 19 years. It would, however, be particularly in those years when insurance companies were dealing with extreme floods, which would unconstitutionally burden them, and instead of paying damages to clients, insurance companies could pay taxes to the state. Luckily, that didn't happen. But let's consider the number nine billion. since 2000, if the amendment, which some argue in the debate, improves the position of insurance companies significantly. The second argument, and it was actually a response to my question, I think to the Committee on Budgets, if there is another European country in which the taxes according to Solvency II, so I heard as an example of Austria, that although they do not use Solvent II in Austria, they have a more stringent tax on reserves than the government proposes. So what's the reality? The Austrian reserve taxation model is based on accounting reserves. In the field of life insurance, 99 percent of the reserves are taxable. Ninety-nine percent of life insurance reserves are fiscally acceptable. We are able to evaluate that the difference between 99 per cent and 100 per cent is negligible. In the field of non-life insurance, I am talking about Austria, the reserves are divided into short-term and long-term. 70 per cent of all reserves shall be considered to be fully taxable short-term. This means that out of 100 per cent of the non-life insurance reserves, 70 per cent is considered short-term and taxable. This means 70 per cent is already from this point of view from the total amount of tax deductible. The remaining 30 per cent, i.e. long-term reserves, are eligible from 80 per cent. Thus, a total of 70 per cent and 80 per cent of 30 is tax-recognition, which is 24 per cent, so 94 per cent of all non-life insurance reserves are tax-recognition. In addition, in Austria, the compensatory reserve, which was abolished some time ago, is still 50 per cent, which was around 5 billion in our country at the time. Crowns. So if we applied the Austrian model to the House's 509, which according to the Ministry of Finance is tougher on insurance companies than the proposal, we would find that we have roughly 4 billion tax-deprived. reserves and of which the tax consists of about 1 billion. Crowns. If that were the case, I do not think that, in principle, we are not having a debate with the House press of 509 on the part that concerns insurance companies. This means that if we applied the Austrian model, it will not change much against the current situation, the budget would gain about 1 billion. extra crowns a year. So much for the argument that there are stricter conditions for taxing technical provisions in Austria. I think that on the specific case and application of Austrian law, the Austrian approach I have shown that this argument is not relevant. We sometimes use in the debate, we from the opposition, to be precise, not government, the term that this is sectoral taxation, and the government argues that this is not sectoral taxation. I think both sides are right. We use this because it is only a tax for one sector, but a classic sector tax is considered to be an additional premium on corporate tax. So, in a narrow sense, the government is right, in a broader sense, that this proposed tax only affects insurance companies, the opposition is right. And you know that colleagues from the Czech Social Democratic Party have such a long-term tax hit, with which they often appear before the public. They call it a sector tax for banks. Once it's an additional premium on corporate tax, sometimes it's a proposal to tax the assets of those banks. That's a net sector tax, and that's what the government's main party is rejecting, and it has our support. But I've only prepared a few numbers when we compare these two sectors. I repeat, we are opposed to the sector tax proposed by the Socialists, but to get an idea of which sector is profitable. I have data accumulated and averaged here, so I'm not going to talk about unit banks, that would be inappropriate, and I have accumulated and averaged data for 2009-2018, which is ten tax periods. I think that's enough time to be able to compare the possible trend change, or not. Average annual profit before tax - annual profit before tax: banking sector 78 billion, insurance company 14 billion. - average annual for ten years. The effective tax rate is 16.5% for banks, 19.5% for insurance companies. The average annual tax on the banking sector is roughly 13 billion. and average annual tax on insurance companies 2.8 billion. They're average numbers. The assets - the banks had, I'll round it up, 4.1 beat. in 2009 and 7.3 bil. In 2018, the increase in assets was thus 3.2 billion, i.e. by around 78 percent. Insurance companies had assets of less than 400 billion. in 2009 and 2018 520 billion The difference is about 123 billion, the increase in assets over the ten years by 31 percent in insurance, 78 percent in banking. The bank's equity capital was 320 billion in 2009, in 2018 less than 580 billion, the difference was 257 billion. The bank's equity has increased by 80 percent in ten years, which is 257 billion. [[10.30 hours]] Insurance companies had equity of less than 74 billion. in 2009. The equity capital in 2018 was about 98 billion, so the increase in equity capital was 24 billion. Bank 254, insurance companies 24, that's a tenth. But it was 33 percent for insurance compared to 80 percent for banking. So much for comparing these two sectors. And consider whether it is reasonable to add any additional tax to the insurance sector. The argument I noted in the debate by the Minister of the Interior was when we draw attention to the potential risk of increasing premiums - I say the potential risk, not that it will certainly happen - so the Minister of the Interior says: We have seen it before. And nothing happened. It is called compulsory liability or compulsory insurance for liability caused by the vehicle. I'll probably use the mandatory guarantee, I think it's the name that is used more often in general Czech. And the Minister's argument is that the obligation to the special fund has been introduced since 1 January 2014 and nothing has happened. The truth is different. The average price, I have a graph here, I'm not going to show it to you, the average price of the compulsory insurance just went up. That means the additional contribution to the special fund was paid by clients. If you look at insurance companies' accounts, you'll find it worked the way it was supposed to. And that is the main lack of general sector tax because, in fact, the sector tax will ultimately pay both clients and banks. And there's only going to be a higher rate of redistribution. Our ČSSD colleagues don't say that anymore. They're just saying, these are the fat banks, they have the fat profits. Let's tax them more! And they forget to add that the bank's logical behavior will be that it will eventually pay the clients. That would be a lot worse said if we were to say honestly: Dear bank clients, you'll have more expensive services, because we'll collect it from you, the money, and then maybe we'll return something to you in the process of redistributing. All the numbers match that, and it's perfectly logical and predictable behavior. And I am pleased that there is a certain - I would say even a constitutional - majority who reject the ideas for introducing a sector tax. I think, speaking of insurance, we could recall the sad facts of the last two major floods that hit the territory of the Czech Republic. I'm from the city where we experienced the floods 22 years ago. And just a sigh on the edge. It's a sigh on the functioning of all governments since then. The construction of a new dam of Nové Heřminova, for example, is a key measure to prevent such an unfortunate and extensive flood from happening again in Opava. And while 22 years have passed, the state has not been able to push through the construction of this dam, and that it has alternated over that time with different political colorings! This is merely a demonstration of how difficult it is to promote some larger structures, which, that is true, will make the fewer citizens' living conditions worse, or interfere with their property, but will potentially protect tens of thousands of other citizens and the assets of these tens of thousands of citizens and all the companies they operate on the territory. And since it was so long ago and we, who had experienced it on our own, do not talk about it all the time and we do not like to remember it, apart from the solidarity and deployment of the integrated rescue system, and I also think that because the floods had such dramatic effects in 2002 and 1997, I think that is why the integrated rescue system has improved dramatically. So in 1997 - it was July, July 5 and July 16, about a third of the territory was flooded. Most Moravia and Eastern Bohemia. 536 cities and municipalities were affected in 34 districts. For example, parts of Ostrava, Otrokovic, Opava, Přerova, Olomouc. The most tragic statistic is that 50 people lost their lives. Most of them drowned and some died in connection with the floods for other reasons. The most tragic consequences were the village of Troubky. I think many of us remember that. Almost 80 thousand were evacuated. People. The damage was approximately 63 billion. CZK, which at the time amounted to 12 percent of the state budget. We have to realise that at that time the state budget had a completely different volume. Of course, the state rushed to liquidate the damage and to liquidate the consequences. In 1997, the government released 11.4 billion. Crowns. And then Parliament approved a transfer from the privatisation account to a flood account of 4 billion. CZK and further finances were gradually released. They were issued so-called flood bonds up to 5 billion. Crowns. And the government has also asked the European Commission to use funds of around 1.5 billion. Crowns. At that time, we were not yet a Member State. The damage to the sights was about 6 miles. Crowns. For example, more than 90 percent of Podzámecké gardens were flooded in Kroměříž. I'm saying this because even thanks to the insurance reserves created, they made all their commitments. A similar situation occurred five years later. It's a flooded subway station. Damages for 7 billion. only for public transport in Prague. Once again, insurance companies made all their commitments. And maybe because the limit on tax recognition of non-life insurance technical provisions was abolished, even on the basis of that, the insurance companies received. In summary, I don't think it's a reasonable idea to additionally burden more than 10 billion. the whole sector. And I'm just going to refer to our detailed debate on the budget committee. I think we can actually distinguish three models in the debate and vote. Either it doesn't pass at all, which is the option that we would prefer as civil democrats. Or it'll pass the way the government wants it to. That's definitely the option that government parties prefer. Or maybe we'll try to compromise, for example, from the taxation of technical provisions, the area of life insurance. Otherwise, by the way, the Committee recommended - but many who follow the committee's deliberations, I would say, overestimate the results of the committee's vote, I think the key is the vote in plenary, because, in the tax package, and Mr will confirm it, we voted on about sixty amendments, and with the exception of two, it ended up plus one or minus one vote. [[unintelligible]] And now it doesn't matter who had the majority right now, so besides, I'd say almost unanimously, agreed with the gas boiler rooms, all the other votes were very tight. And for the House of Deputies plenary, it is not decisive whether the majority of the government had a plus one vote, or plus two votes, or even the opposition sometimes managed to win the majority in the Committee on Budgets. But also plus one vote. That means it's a thing that's not black and white, and we could focus on it. I consider this to be the end of the longest block in my performance. The longest is because I consider it the most controversial. I'm gonna be talking to the other blocks a lot shorter than that. [[10.40 hours]] I just wrote my fourth block gamble. And I have to say that I was inspired to perform in this area by a report by the Ministry of Finance that evaluated Účtenkovka after two years, and then a report from last week, or a report from last week, which was actually based on data provided by the Ministry of Finance. If I remember the numbers correctly, the tax payers paid 150 million crowns for the operation of the Bills for those two years. When we discuss some amendments in the state budget, which will be in tens or maybe millions of crowns, and we will hear that money is not allocated to it in the state budget, let us remember where the state spent 150 million crowns. The reason for introducing the účtenkovka was to motivate citizens to require a receipt, an account. So I've always wanted it, the bill. I never thought I'd send anything anywhere. But there are others among us who, in my opinion, flunked the účtenkovka. Speaking of addictions, let's consider whether it's normal that a player who sent the largest number of receipts per month would be able to produce 11,000 accounts per month. And since there's a rule that doesn't probably send those accounts to personnel, so to put the account in a draw, it's true that only one account per day from one establishment. So if you have 11,000 receipts a month, we'll round around it, it's less than 400 bills a day. And since it can't be from one store, that is, to become a face that believes that this person will visit about 380 stores every day and make an account in each of them. I think he's completely denying that. Moreover, I have read that there are bazaars where players, pathological players, exchange receipts for 0.01 crowns. I'm thinking, I see Mr. Nacher, so if he spends three times here today, he'll have three receipts, so he could trade for 0.01 crowns with someone who spends three receipts somewhere else. Does that seem normal to you? Mr Nacher will, of course, not do so. I just want to-- it's bad luck to see him when I look to the left. So this isn't the purpose of the receipt lottery at all. And it was just an attempt to show that it wasn't just the gambling companies, but in this case, a state that, under the prospect of easy wins, material wins, motivates some citizens to get 11,000 accounts and register them. At first and second reading, I have devoted myself to the prize taxation institute, which I consider to be unhappy because of difficult enforcement, except that it is an additional tax burden. In the first reading, many of the Members stood here, showing mathematical examples that if the proposal remained in the original version, as it was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, and especially on the betting bets, it might be that when you win at a relatively low rate and bet a relatively high amount, and you tax 15 percent, your result will be minus. I think that argument was taken by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance prepared, in cooperation with specific Members of the Committee on Budgets, an amendment to remove this illogicality. True, this may be the case, but let us see under what absurd circumstances. Yes, only the difference between the funds put in and won will be taxed, but it is also said that the tax period is a year. And if we're serious about this, and if the Financial Administration should ever check it out, then anyone who plays Sports would have one in their own, and that's not an accounting journal, I don't know, a sportsman's diary or a book book book book, or the worst case, a diary of whoever throws money into those boxes, lead and write. Today, 29th, no, that was yesterday, today is October 30th, I bet 260 crowns and I won 303 crowns. I have a profit of CZK 43 in this day. It's supposed to be like this for a year. At the end of the year, he should add up the staked and won means. I'm sure, unfortunately, most of them will be down, the logic of gambling, otherwise it wouldn't work. But those who happen to be on the plus side because it's just a matter of luck, not the man's art, so they're gonna have to prove it and say, oh, yeah, I won 101,000 or, and that was a reasonable potential proposal from the budget committee, here to raise the line to a million crowns, and I'm going to tax it. But it doesn't really matter what the limit is, if ten thousand, one hundred thousand, one million or ten million. How does the tax administration verify that the amount, the tax base, is correct? I can't imagine it at all. It's so absurd that he's gonna have a player's diary and write down how much he's bet and how much he's won. Perhaps it would be the most educational thing those players could do for themselves to see what a loss-making activity it is. I really can't imagine it in practice. Perhaps then we will learn from those who have proposed and enforced this in the Committee on Budgets - and it is better than the current situation - that is to say, it is just better against the original government proposal. But I don't think it's possible. Uncontrollable. And we shouldn't put in law paragraphs that can't be checked and therefore effectively enforced. This will create a problem not only for taxpayers but also for financial administration workers. Because we can't justly ask them to check it properly, or to measure it, or to say yes, okay, the limit was lower than the one laid down in the law. Of course, the higher the limit, the smaller the taxpayers' groups will be involved, that's true. But the problem with control and enforcement remains regardless of the level of the border. So we tried to find out what was going on elsewhere in Europe. If, for example, all the winnings, as is the case in the proposed law, are taxed across the board of the press in Europe, 509, and as is also the amendment which the Committee on Budgets, this time I would say by a stronger majority than one two votes, has recommended to the Chamber of Deputies. The only thing I could refer to, I've already quoted it once, it was the RIA of the Ministry of Finance from 2015, so I don't have any newer information, you don't even have the capacity to find out. And in the 2015 RIA analysis At the time, the Ministry of Finance wrote: no EU country applies a gross tax on winnings. By the way, for the 2015 result, the recommendation was not to introduce the tax on winnings, because these are the risks of control, feasibility, management costs of such tax, control costs and so on. We have adopted a new gambling tax law here in the last parliamentary term. If those sitting here remember, they eventually gained broad political support. It wasn't a coalition fight versus the opposition. Yes, unlike the then government, the Chamber of Deputies imposed a different rate of taxation according to the harmfulness of a particular kind of gambling. And it is true that the argument is repeated in the press that the then government actually proposed the same thing that this government is proposing. But then the House rejected it and adopted its own rules, which apply only - the Minister will help me - I would say three tax periods if I am not mistaken. For the first time, maybe 2016, I have a feeling. So we've got three results so far. And for example, for the citizens of the Democrats, the key instrument in that law was the register of players to serve to exclude from gambling those who, for example, receive benefits, society gives them, and then they spend the money they receive as aid from society in gambling. I must honestly admit that the Minister has moved on from years to years, and according to the information I have from her, it will really occur by the middle of next year at the latest after the test operation, and I think only then can we expect the positive effects of the introduction of such a register. [[10.50 hours]] We've been arguing here about whether the blockage shouldn't be wider, we may have suggested basically all the recipients of social benefits because society is building on it, so there's no reason for the company to fold on it so that the one who gets the help to use it for gambling. However, I think we can get back to that, after a year or two, we will evaluate specific impacts. At the same time, technological development in the field of gambling applies. I don't think it's just the pressure of municipalities and the Ministry of Finance when the number of gambling rooms and the number of VHPs decreases, that's the winning instruments. The reality will be that gambling will move to the Internet, and there is a question of taxation much more complicated. Let's face it, it's much more complicated given that you can actually bet on a server all over the world and it's very difficult to track taxpayers there and give them a fair tax. I think because we don't know the exact effects except that we know the fiscal impacts - we see it in recent years, how much the state has chosen, or we can ask, I don't know if, for example, the Union of Cities and Communities or the Ministry of Finance has the total figures of how many of the gambling comes into the city budgets, so I have no idea, I would say that there is more to it than coming into the state budget of those rules. [[unintelligible]] So I think we have to evaluate the impact of the new gambling law properly and then, if necessary, to change rates on individual types of gambling. And we should also consider the social harm of the individual... I know it is very difficult to defend, for example, taxation or tax increases on gambling. However, when I use the most common lottery I've known since I was a kid, it's an athlete, I know families who have been betting for years either the same numbers or other numbers. I don't exactly call that a gamble for myself. Sounds like an adult fairy tale to me. Who wouldn't want to bet 18 kroner once, one column cost 6 kroner, I remember, I don't know what it is today, I don't know anymore, and get a million kroner for it. It's an adult fairy tale, and I don't know if this is... I know it's logical to go into gambling, but when we talk about it, I don't have the courage to label those who are betting on the sport as those who have fallen into gambling, and I don't think that's even a real label. The other thing is the arcade. This is a completely different case, and I think that, too, should be taken into account by the legislator when determining the level of taxation. And I think that's why the last House distinguished various tax rates for different types of gambling. Of course there are - no matter more detailed debate, I see President Bartošek, I think it is a long-term proposal of KDU-ČSL, if not his personally, that the money from gambling be directly intended somewhere. I must say for us that we do not support this, that I think it is for the government to decide that the more we bind the tax revenues of the state budget, the less we give political space for the government to decide, the less we give room for the government's political priorities. And that goes for every government. Mandatorial and quasi-mandatory expenditures account for more than three quarters of the state budget. A real political debate, not to mention changes in laws, but a real political debate in the state budget has shrunk to about 25 percent of our spending. That's the fight we're fighting against the opposition versus the government, or the government versus the opposition. It seems so little to me for every government that wins with some political program, and then it's left with 25 percent of the total revenue of the state budget. Plus, from 25 percent to many percent, it's a match, so it's not... The real fight is a much lower amount. That's why I don't agree with the idea that this is the most important law of the year. That's why we're narrowing down the space for a political battle. So much for gambling. Then if we go through the various amendments in detail, there are proposals relating to live games, equalisation of, for example, poker, conditions in the Czech Republic with conditions in other states and so on. I would like once again to draw your attention to my amendments, which are here on income tax relating to electromobility. I know the Ministry of Finance has not recommended this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies for approval, but I would like us to think about it one more time. The Czech Republic has accepted some international commitments, we can argue whether they are reasonable or not, but the controversy leads nowhere. We have accepted these commitments and we have to fulfill them. And - I turned to see the Minister of the Environment because, without a doubt, his resort will contribute to whether or not we will fulfil the commitments that the Czech Republic has made. I have to say, in the basic view presented by the government, we actually agree. We say yes, we have accepted these commitments, but let us talk about rational measures that, on the one hand, will lead to the fulfilment of the Czech Republic's commitment, on the other hand, they will not reduce the competitiveness of Czech entrepreneurs and will not fall substantially on the incomes of our citizens. I think that is the basic approach that we agree with the government, and we are ready to look for measures to achieve those objectives. If I have good numbers to fulfill our commitments in 2030, which is in 11 long years, but it is not as far as it looks, it should be around 250 thousand in the Czech Republic. electric cars. And if the experts say you need one charging station for 10 electric cars, in 11 years it should be 25,000. Rechargeable stations. If you look at the current situation this year, last year, year before last, you will find that if something doesn't change, we absolutely can't get to the numbers and it will be a big problem for the Czech Republic, for the car companies that they produce in the Czech Republic. And the importance of the automotive industry as a whole for the Czech economy is not to be convinced. I think it's absolutely crucial. Different countries approach this in a variety of ways. As a right-wing party, we certainly reject subsidies, but the price is a limiting factor in addition to the factors of technical, driving distance and so on. And if we want to carry out any positive motivation, whether companies or citizens, and at the same time reject direct subsidies, which we reject, the proposal contains three sensible things. Member Juříček said at first or second reading that he knew where the proposal was made. I said I wasn't hiding anything. It was created on the soil of the automotive industry. There is no reason to hide it and say that we have not consulted the automotive industry, that these are not the proposals that the automotive industry as a whole supports. It's actually a shortening of the depreciation period for both electric cars, when I put it that way, because the bill under the tax law is a little bit more complicated, and it's its own transfer from second to first depreciation group, which means we're not creating any special ones, we're just trying to increase the incentive of companies to take these vehicles. And since you need charging stations for these vehicles, we're also suggesting that the charging stations be transferred to another depreciation group. The D.O.D. refused. I would like to know from the Minister of the Environment whether he considers it reasonable or unreasonable. If he considers these proposals unreasonable, let us debate this: so, Minister, what are the sensible measures that would help to move towards the high numbers that should be in the Czech Republic in 11 years? I hope--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u5	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. I'll ask the House for peace. And now that I've interrupted you, I'll allow myself to do some procedural things before the end of my proceedings. I think you'll at least be able to drink. Mr Skopeček has a replacement card number 17, Member of Matušovská number 21, Mr Václa Votava canceled his apology from today's meeting. Mr Radek Koten's apologies are here for the whole day on a business trip, Mr Jiří Mašek for health reasons at 30. 10. and 1. 11. 2019. At today's meeting, Andrea Babišová is apologizing for health reasons for the whole day. Mr Holomčík from 9.00 to 9.15, and from 12.30 to 14.00 for working reasons, Mr Běhounek. So much for the procedural things we've neglected for the duration of your speech. [[11.00 hours]] Before you continue, I am merely saying that from the other applicants who are enrolled in the debate, the priority right is required by Mr. Výborný, but before it, when - if you are finished, there is a written comment from Mr.Faltýnek and colleague Nacher. I will now hand over the proceedings of the meeting when the House calms down, so I will give you my word again. If my colleague Nacher doesn't report, his... With a point of fact, was it? So it's possible for him to check out. I will now hand over the proceedings to the meeting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u6	Thank you. So I will freely follow up on amendments relating to income tax and, in fact, the transfer of both electric cars and charging stations from one to another depreciation group. I'm just gonna repeat, I don't know if the Minister of the Environment recorded my question. As far as I know, the government has rejected this, the Ministry of Finance also has a negative opinion, so my question is: what other instruments to support this segment and to fulfil our obligations will the government prepare or propose - or leave it without support? This too, of course, is a solution. I am only afraid that, in particular, from that price point of view, the Czech Republic will not be able to meet the commitments it has made. So much for commenting on this - it is our contribution to a rational debate on how to meet the commitments of the Czech Republic, for example, in the field of climate change. I will give a few words to my amendment, which is conducted in the system under number 3459. On the margins, Mr rapporteur, I checked - you had doubts when you recapitulated the second reading, I finally checked the screen record, I managed to read the numbers well, there was no error, thank you, we are in agreement. This can happen when you slip and say another document number. Luckily, that didn't happen. I also tabled an amendment to that part... [[He's coughing.]] I apologize - concerning excise duty on tobacco. When I first justified the proposal, I said that I am aware that the tax is partially harmonised and that one of the parameters was not fulfilled by the Czech Republic, so the tax increase simply has to happen. However, in view of the estimated revenue of the state budget, I have tried to propose an increase in this tobacco tax for the following three or four tax periods, so that the increase is not one-off, where the risk of cross-border purchases and an increase in the grey or black market increases. At the same time, so that revenue from this tax can be well estimated and planned in the revenue of the state budget. The supposed impact of the government proposal is about CZK 12 to 13 on a pack of cigarettes if I have good information. My proposal, which I give to consider, generally increases the price of the box by 22 crowns, but is set for four years. With the proposal being to be the highest next year, that means that the projected revenue of the state is roughly consistent with the forecast by the Ministry of Finance, the government and, by the way, as approved by the basic parameters of the budget at first reading. Although I did not vote in favour of the proposal, I respect that the total revenue has already been approved by the Chamber of Deputies. So the proposal is about CZK 9 in 2020, CZK 5 - always plus - CZK 5 in 2021, CZK 4 in 2002 and CZK 4 in 2023. Indeed, the only motivation is to reduce the risk of cross-border purchases, the grey-black economy, thereby reducing the risk of a state budget loss. At the same time, medium-term planning of this tax. We have already been able to agree once in the Chamber of Deputies, I think we have accepted these rates for three years in the last parliamentary term, if memory does not deceive me, this proposal proposes four. None significantly alters the parameters proposed by the government. We'll save the amendments for last, that's press 509, if I need to quote. This is the justification for the amendments, which I will take. [[He's browsing his papers.]] We've done six out of ten areas, and the others will be relatively short. Cadaster fee. A lot of colleagues were talking about it. I don't think this proposal belongs in the tax package. I think the Minister has been held responsible for something that the Minister of Agriculture should have presented. Maybe you weren't able to negotiate more money for the cadastral office within the state budget, and even though taxes are tax-like, I don't think that's part of the tax package. I think it is a proposal that really upsets many taxpayers. The arguments were made by other speakers on this point, so I will not repeat them or argue with the explanatory statement. Maybe a little. So we will either use the arguments of the type of inflation, rising average wages, rising costs of energy and so on in the debate, and we will apply them somewhere, or we will not. The worst approach is that sometimes we recognise these arguments and sometimes we don't recognise them, rather than simplifying real estate tax as far as possible. And one of the proposals put forward by my colleague, Mr Munzar, serves as something I would call automatic property tax at the moment when the scope of your property changes. Yes, it's quite simple today, if the contents of your property don't change, you didn't sell a piece of the garden or you didn't buy a piece of the garden, so it's very simple, the state calculates it, sends you information that you have to pay so much and so much until then and then, and you pay it. So it's pretty simple for a taxpayer. A much bigger problem is when you sell or buy a piece of the garden or build a garage, so you have to file a tax return. You have to think about it, there is a different term than the tax return on real estate, and when it is due and so on, and I think the state has enough information, among other things, because it has it on the register, it has a change of ownership recorded, it knows the notice, because the property is attached to the registration are purchase contracts, and there is no reason for the State not to pay it for taxpayers, and yet simply, when there is no change to offer the possibility of paying the real estate tax when the change takes place. It seems reasonable to me in the direction of taxpayers, it is a simplification for taxpayers, the state is supposed to simply pass on the information. When we talk about digitalization and electronization, this is one of the cases where the state has all the information, writes a change in the cadaster, and at the same time forces us to rewrite the same change that we have to write to the cadaster - let's not talk about the amount of the charge - so that we do not talk about it in another procedure, that is, in the tax proceedings, repeat it, and give the same information to the state again. I don't see any reason for this, and I think it would be reasonable for it to just work automatically. First, it eliminates the possibility that someone forgets or deliberately fails to do so, so we can speculate whether it was unintentional or intentional. At the same time, the state will prescribe - at least on the side of the property tax regulation it will have relevant data and will overwrite all 100 percent of what is to be paid. Too bad there's no will for it yet, but I think it's one of the sensible proposals worth supporting. And now we have a motion to drop the fee, it's a proposal to automatically determine the amount of tax from the State towards the taxpayer. [[11.10 hours]] Then I have a point that I call a gas tax. I suppose it was the only exception I was talking about, Mr rapporteur, that amendment received broad support in the Committee on Budgets. They voted for him, I'm not saying everyone, but members of all the MPs. I think it was 20 out of 21 if memory doesn't deceive me. By this I consider the de facto debate on this proposal to be closed and there we have found some identical position. Now, before I go to a summary and a conclusion that may be short or not, I don't know yet that we're going to go through the various amendments and I've announced at least the framework position of our club. The procedure proposed by the Committee on Budgets is not entirely simple. We'll probably have some suggestions for a change. However, the basic principle is correct. This means that when we vote on the amendments, we will go by each type of tax. Our amendments will likely be directed towards a turn-around within a specific tax, a preference for a vote or something like that. This is a matter of political decision, because many of these proposals are against each other, and we should always, in my opinion, line it up from the softest to the toughest, or vice versa. Because when I'm ready, for example. support three proposals in the area for the law, which differ in some detail. I consider one to be ideal, the other to be slightly worse, but worthy of support, the third to be more supportive, but if we vote on the third first, it is not a comfortable situation for me for our club. If there's a majority for a specific solution, it doesn't really matter what order we start. We will always propose in that block if it isn't there anymore, I'm not saying it's in all the blocks, or we'll propose a change of procedure so that it's the first point that we think is best suited to our program and our view of the taxes. However, the basic procedure is correct and I will now stick to the structure in the quick overview, i.e. by individual taxes, so I don't jump off the topic. Motion to dismiss - that's a political decision. Changing proposals containing amendments to the Real Estate Tax Act, that is what I said at first reading. It's an area where the government has the support of civil democrats. Both the basic government proposal and the complementary amendment. So there will be support for these amendments from our side. I think this is Mrs Krutáková's proposal, which adopted the Committee on Budgets as a whole. If I am sometimes mistaken about the designation of the original author, I apologize for the fact that when the Committee adopted it there, perhaps it is completely inaccurate. And then we have income tax. This is logically a tax law that contains the most changes. It also concerns the largest number of taxpayers. In addition to what the government proposes, there are also good improvements, which are proposed primarily by opposition Members. I would begin with, in brief, what Mr Skopeček explained in detail - and it is a proposal to increase the basic discount on the taxpayer. The proposals are basically three. Two is the same amount. Last time, my fellow Members submitted this separately, so, fairly alphabetically, Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Skopeček propose that the basic discount should be increased to 30 000. [[unintelligible]] Then there is a proposal from the SPD workshop, which proposes to increase the basic discount to 27,000. My proposal is also in the procedure to vote by 30 thousand first, then 27 thousand. That's the case I was talking about. We support all three proposals. All SPD proposals, because they all cut taxes. But for us, a better option is 30 grand. than 27,000. This would be better if we voted in this order: 30, 30, 27, and if nothing passes, the basic discount on the taxpayer remains as it is today - which, by the way, has been the same since 2008. Here we are on the inflation argument - which is more than 20 percent if I count 2008 when I take it from 2009 it is about 16.5% - and we have somehow forgotten the argument of rising average wages. For my incomprehensible reasons, this measure is hindered by our left. I really do not understand this, because the increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer will help those who have lower than the average wage. So for them the relative increase would have been higher, relatively, absolutely the same, but it would have a relatively higher positive contribution to their wallets than for high-income or for those with average wages. But the left for incomprehensible reasons - incomprehensible to me - is resisting this. I really don't understand. So that is one part of the Income Tax Act and the amendments that aim to do so. The second part of the bill I talked about in detail, so I won't repeat it, it's the abolition of a super gross wage. I think this is Mrs Langšádlová's proposal, which does not correspond to the parameters developed by the ODS, but actually corresponds, with the exception of the abolition of the solidarity tax, to the government's programming declaration. And even, as I quoted last Friday, it corresponds to the first material that the Ministry of Finance sent to the external commentary proceedings, and there the Ministry of Finance actually proposed to abolish the solidarity tax during this term, and I think the proposal is positive. Other proposals relating to income tax, I was talking about it in the case of electromobility, this is a proposal which, of course, affects income tax, and there is simply no other way to deal with it. [[He's browsing his papers.]] I'm asking for a moment of patience, because I know you can't ask too much for bureaucracy, but we have a procedure that is properly divided by the type of taxes. And then we have a material that contains all the amendments that are sorted in alphabetical order. And the orientation isn't entirely simple. Next time, Mr rapporteur, if those who prepare it gave us the same order, I think you and I would welcome it. I do not blame the rapporteur, this is, of course, a matter of administration in the Chamber of Deputies. But it would certainly be beneficial for orientation and for speeding up the debate. 'Cause I can't really remember... Many of these proposals also concern the taxation of winnings. There the Budget Committee adopted some resolutions, this was the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, and at the same time there are various proposals. Firstly, the Committee on Budgets has already recommended: The Chamber of Deputies will increase the limit for tax winnings from 100 thousand. 1 mil. There's also an amendment that's a 1-mile boundary. He's lifting to 10 miles. And there are several amendments that essentially cancel the taxation. One good one, I think that Mr Votava gave it to him, I would like to commend him so publicly - I hope I am not mistaken if the Member will definitely correct me and it was not the intention - Mr Votava proposes to abolish the taxation of gambling prizes with the sole exception of leaving the taxation of the receipt lottery. Am I saying that right? No. So it was another colleague who suggested it, I apologise to the honourable Member. But one of those amendments is heading towards that. I think it's more fun that the gamble that the state is organizing would be taxed, and the rest wouldn't be. But why not? And, of course, the key amendments, because for income tax, there are also reserve laws as an increase in the income tax base, so there are amendments that point to the problem that I have been talking about for the longest time, i.e. the issue of taxation of the technical provisions of insurance undertakings. There are proposals, which may also be repeated, which we consider to be the most correct ones, i.e. delete this part of the bill completely. Then there is a proposal, which is very tight mostly, the least possible, recommended by the Committee on Budgets, i.e. tax non-life technical provisions on non-life insurance and leave as it has always been, fully taxable technical provisions on life insurance. I didn't think about it -- now that I'm quoting it. Maybe I could have suggested in Austria that 1 percent of the reserves be taxed when we were already referring to Austria in the debate, but I just can't do that anymore and I won't suggest repeating the second reading. [[unintelligible]] I'll take it I didn't figure it out. I could have actually suggested it. There I also expect the greatest political duel and say, there, apart from the fact that we have also demonstrated positive elements of our tax policy. [[unintelligible]] [[11.20 hours]] The next block we are going to vote on is the bill on excise duties. I introduced one, which means an increase in tobacco tax over a period of four years, with the total increase in average for one box of approximately 22 crowns. There is also Mr Skopeček's amendment, which he will certainly justify in detail. Then we have a number of proposals on gambling taxation. And as is sometimes the case when you are not discussing this at once, but gradually, I am a member of the Committee on Budgets, and I can assure you that the Committee on Budgets has approved or identified two amendments that are totally against each other. I will not say better or worse now, it is a paradox, because we voted at various meetings, probably there were different compositions of the members of the budgetary committee present. I just want to point out that one would expect that, for example, when the Committee on Budgets approves two amendments to a single tax, that they are complementary in some way, but these two proposals are mutually exclusive. But who other than us as the Chamber of Deputies will just decide? So I just want to point that out, which is why I'm saying that we need to look a little bit at the resolution of these committees with a spare. I think that they were both adopted by a vote or by two, I don't remember exactly, but at another time, in a different composition of the members of the Committee on Budgets present. Then there is an amendment to VAT, which does not contain the original proposal at all, and I just want to mention it in three sentences, because Mr Munzar explained it in detail, we consider it - now modesty aside. The best amendment that has been made in that debate by all Members is our amendment to VAT, when we propose to increase the mandatory VAT registration limit from one to two million. That is what I would say when I compare all the proposals that it is really best towards small and small entrepreneurs and that it would represent a specific significant aid to the smallest entrepreneurs. I know the position of the Ministry of Finance and Government, which is repulsive. I'm sorry. I don't know why we have ten-point, 20-point, 30-point support programmes for small and small businessmen when we have a specific important point here and unfortunately there is no political consensus on that. The penultimate proposal or the penultimate block concerns our program evergreen, unfortunately, we thought it would pass quickly, and we had to make this program evergreen, that is to cancel the tax on the acquisition of the property. [[Noise in the hall.]] And I would quite like to have a debate sometime with the opponent of the proposal before the taxpayers to explain to them, which I can't prove what we're paying the tax for. What the real estate tax is paid for. I think we are able to justify why income tax is being paid, that we are able to justify why excise taxes are being paid, that we are able to justify why VAT is being paid at all, and now I am not talking about a specific rate, but why it is being paid. But I don't know any argument - I'm gonna have to raise my voice not because I want to stress it, but because I'm gonna yell at you - I don't know any argument to explain to the taxpayer why they pay the property acquisition tax. He will use his money, already once taxed, or borrow, a mortgage or other financial product, to buy his own property and the state will ask him for 4 percent. And again, the rate debate, I hear the counterargument, there were three, but I say - it doesn't matter if one, two, three or four, the basic question is still the same. Is that what we're paying the tax for? For taking care of your own place? For buying a meadow, a garden of already taxed money? This is really the only tax, regardless of the debate on the rate where I am unable, and I would like one of those who are opposed to cancellation except that it is a state budget blackout, which, of course, we admit, I think 13.5 billion. They're Treasury numbers, of course, that's true, but it doesn't actually justify that. Then the only reason is for the state to raise money. Then we can introduce pedometers and pay according to how many walks we walk, because we'll fuck the pavements. Or I don't know what else we can tax - with the state budget argument he needs the money. I really don't know. That's not a rhetorical question. If any of you who oppose you, you have a good argument that we can tell the taxpayers why the tax is even paid, not the rate why it's even paid, I'd like to hear it. We haven't come up with any argument except that the state wants money. And that it's customary law and that it's been a long time. I admit that, but that's no reason why the tax is imposed at all. It would be an interesting debate. I'd like to hear some arguments. I don't think he's gonna convince me, but maybe I'm wrong. So, in general, about the amendments for our club. We will support all the amendments, regardless of who made them, which lead to (a) either reducing the tax burden or (b) simplifying the tax system. I must admit that in some of the amendments, our fellow Members from other parties overtook us, we did not consider it necessary to repeat this and say "we also tabled this amendment" and lead the fight that was the first. That is why I say that we will support these proposals, those that lead to tax reductions or simplifying the tax system, regardless of who actually filed them. And I'm getting to the last block I called Summary and Conclusion. In general, I say that the hardest thing is to write a summary on A4 so that I might be interested in the possible reader or MEP who will vote. If I take him in the A4 then maybe he'll look into the details. And it's probably not difficult to write a hundred-page explanatory note, but I want to ask in that conclusion what are the motives of this proposal and the adoption of the tax package. When I look at the fiscal impacts that I think are the main reasons, I think they're not dramatic, honest. If we have 1 608 billion. expenses, by 113 billion. expenditure, but also income more than this year, so the fight by 10 billion. He may seem petty, but he's not. The President of the Chamber of Deputies taught me on Sunday that when the tax quota is increased, and when it is a little bit, it actually means that nothing happens and they essentially reduce the taxes. [[Nesroz.]] I've released three sentences in between. That, then, seems to me to be an extremely bold statement if I'm mild in assessment. The government itself admits in this material that the combined tax quota will be the highest in the history of the Czech Republic, with one exception, in 1993, when the economy was transformed and the independent Czech Republic was created. That means next year's redistribution rate will be record-breaking. Record. And that is the biggest problem of both the tax package and the state budget that went through at first reading. Sometimes I wonder, and I think it was also the name of the favourite movie Better late than later - remember how many times we talked about fare discounts. All he had to do was get the Prime Minister on the train, take the train yesterday, and figure out that the system was being abused. We've been saying this for a year and a half, but better late than late. I was saying here in the debate on last year's budget that while I was at the Department of Transport, those discounts were 250 miles. crowns per year, and even then it was actually impossible to check them effectively at a much lower scale. Today, the range is more than 20 times higher and it just isn't possible, and let's face it, it's not possible for the Ministry of Transport to check it effectively. [[11.30 hours]] And we'll redistribute again. In order to send 5.5 billion, we have to take something. And only send it to some people. And let's talk about a legitimate political view, for example. with our colleagues from the left: it is better to give 5.5 billion. for fare discounts, although some certainly do not need it and some, especially pensioners, will simply not use it because they do not travel, or is it better to use the money for pensions to all pensioners? Our answer is very simple, for b) is much better. When we wanted to increase pensions by a thousand crowns a month to those who are 25 years old and longer retired, i.e. Those who retired in 1994 and earlier and are not at the same time 85 years old, so on those 4 billion. We were told by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs that they were not. But for active employment policy next year, when everyone is working who wants to, they're almost four billion, almost the same number. And for these discounts is used 5.5 billion. So what would be better for the cohesion of society in the framework of a sensible pro-family policy? We think it would be better to add to those who have been retired for so long. But for unknown reasons, the left refuses. What is most smiling about it is clear from all the figures that this measure would be felt especially by women who raised children, almost 100 percent when we analyzed, and we have numbers from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and from the Czech Social Security Administration who would be concerned. This is what Minister Šmahem will refuse to do a press conference, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, to be perfectly clear, I am talking about pensions, I think the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who will reject it, now I am talking about MPSV, I am not talking about finance at all - to do a press conference in a few weeks, to go to the microphone and say: One of the main objectives of adapting the pension system - note, not using the word reform, but adapting - is to address the issue of unfairly low pensions, especially for women who raised children. - I agree with that. But when there was a specific proposal that twice sent the upper chamber to our lower chamber, the secretary rejected it twice. When she refused for the first time, it was over a year ago, so I said I'd wait until she came up with a specific measure. They could have taken it in 2019, especially the ladies. Or they could have taken it since 2020. So at least two years gone, 12,000. Every year for each of them, who has been retired for more than 20 years, gone, but the Minister is considering how to solve this problem. And our approach is-- we'd better make it quick and fast, because it has logic, maybe it's not the fairest, maybe it's not the most systematic, but it helps right away. An old Czech proverb says: who helps quickly helps twice. And that is the problem of both the tax package and the state budget. I have also heard many words in recent days from the President of the Chamber of Deputies and also from Vice-President Vojtěch Filip about how long it takes, what are the obstructions, etc. We acted, and the number is correct, until today about 15 hours, after today we will have 20 hours, but about 4 months. Do you know how long we've been discussing the taxation of church restitution? How many days and how many hours? About 11 negotiating days, about 15 hours. And what was the result? You who voted in favour? This law was a fundamental act against democratic and legal order in the Czech Republic, and - if I simplify it, the word of the constitutional judge rapporteur - tried to hide the crimes of the communist regime. And we had plenty of time for that. I think many of you knew how it would turn out. I will not read today the list of the 114 Members who knowingly voted for a serious violation of the democratic and legal nature of the Czech Republic. Such harsh words from the Constitutional Court. And there's nothing going on here. No self-esteem. We have lawyers sitting in opposition ranks. How did they listen to that? Yes, some did not vote for it, to be said, but some voted for it. How did they listen to that? I haven't heard the harsher words of the Constitutional Court in years. And we had plenty of time for that. So I'm rejecting this simple-- obstruction. Just say obstruction, I'm just saying, you can't expect us to vote happily and quickly for tax increases. Our voters really do not want this, yours may, ours may not, and we defend their interests perfectly logically. However, in my speech, I focused mainly on things that I think would be beneficial for your constituents. I understand that we do not agree on a strong reduction in income tax, and in order to enforce it, we have to win elections, build a majority government, then we are able to enforce it. But there are things that are dangerous, controversial, and yet they do not have a strong impact on the state budget. If we take the two prints that I don't know why you're tying them up, the tax package and the state budget, first of all, I want to say that the state budget, in my best estimate, will be discussed properly according to the timetable that we've all approved, i.e. a high degree of probability can be expected that the state budget will be approved on Wednesday, 6 December. The tax package contains approximately 10 billion if approved, 10 billion. income for next year and you have 1.6 bill. expenditure. 10 per cent is 160 billion, so I don't make a mistake like yesterday, when I miscalculate it on the election committee, I'm going to count out, 1 per cent is 16 billion, 1 per mile is 1.6 billion, so the tax package exceeds about 6... 0.6 per mile... Six million state budget spending, so I can't see the binding there at all. In addition, we said that in those tax revenues for next year there is also a digital tax that makes 2 billion, or 2.1 billion. according to the proposal. So there's no need for binding. The state budget will be passed by every government, or the government will end, I don't know a government that couldn't push through a budget. This means that the arguments of the type - by long speaking and delaying the tax package, you are threatening the adoption of the state budget, they are simply not true. Even if it were an ideal case, an ideal case that we will once vote on the tax package, namely the first vote of the procedure, so in the second vote, or when we settle all the objections to the procedure, when we vote in substance for the first time, and if we reject it, which is the ideal situation from the point of view of the civil democrats, if we reject this bill at first reading, nothing will happen at all to the state budget of 2020. Nothing at all. Because, to be honest, estimate revenue and expenditure per unit of billions, i.e. in the order of promilion, it is essentially impossible. If the estimate of revenue and expenditure e.g. will vary by 10 billion. in a year, so it's a very good result of budget planning. Let us look at the results not only in this, but also in other parliamentary periods. You are unable to plan exactly the total revenue and total expenditure for 99.9 percent. So the debate on the tax package does not threaten the debate on the state budget in any way, and even because I assume that the government majority will approve the state budget, it is logical, it is not surprising, it has already approved the basic parameters, so we will actually only talk about transfers within chapters, so even if the tax package is not approved at all, nothing is happening and the state budget will actually end up the same as planned, better, or worse, we will see how the external economic effects, which are very difficult to estimate to the government, and thus worse without the opposition analysts' team. So if I wanted to sum it up, the ideal solution is to reject the tax package, because it was exactly in the spirit of the government's programming statement, that would be it. I quote from the government's tax statement, by heart, I won't be able to find it now, because that would be precisely filled with the principle of fiscal neutrality. [[11.40 hours]] No taxes are increased, no taxes are reduced when we reject the House press, and we respect the principle of fiscal neutrality. Come with us, we're able to find a lot of votes for this. If this does not pass, we will try to persuade you to support at least some of the amendments that we consider a reasonable political compromise. At the same time, we are aware that there are areas, and it is logical, that there is a political struggle and a political struggle in economic terms, because even in the area of taxation, there are areas in which we cannot find the compromise, because we have another approach, such as how high taxation should be for employees. This is perfectly logical, understandable, and we will lead another month and years of standard duel between the right and the left. And I fully respect that the current cabinet is left-wing, so it cannot go to tax cuts. But the cabinet himself wrote in its programming statement that it wants to be tax-neutral, so I'm just going to ask you politely: fulfill your programming statement at least at this point, throw away the law, and we can say that together we have fulfilled the government's programming statement in agreement with the government and the opposition, and we have maintained the tax neutrality that the government so rightly wrote in its programming statement. Thank you for your attention, and apart from a few factual comments that I will certainly not be able to respond to, I will no longer speak to this House press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u7	Thank you. It will be followed by factual remarks. First of all, President Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u8	Good morning. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr Vice-President, I would make a procedural proposal in my factual point. I would take the floor of the esteemed President Stanjura, who has asked for a long discussion on this subject. This subject is very important to us, very important to us, and I would therefore propose, on behalf of our membership club, in accordance with Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, that the House set aside a period of up to 19 hours for the third reading of bills, so that we have sufficient time to discuss this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u9	On your proposal, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u10	Me, too. [[To Mr. Faltynek.]] I have pointed out that we are only discussing this for four months, which is an extremely short period in the Chamber of Deputies. It is not our fault that the law did not come in January or February, so allow me to make a veto on this proposal for you on behalf of many MPs, namely civil democrats, STAN, KDU-ČSL, Pirates and TOP 09. That's five, that should do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u11	Yes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Section 95a, given that this proposal has been vetoed, I cannot vote on it. We will continue with the factual remarks. Mr Nacher, with a factual point. Let me introduce you to the order of factual remarks: Members of Ferjenčík, Řehounek, Juříček, Votava and Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u12	Good morning. I took the liberty of signing up for a factual comment on President Stanjura's speech, whose speech I must say, I admire - two hours and three quarters. For the first hour and a half I listened carefully and took notes, I would have to have about ten factual remarks, but I do have one or two. One. President Stanjura spoke of renowned economists in the part concerning insurance companies, with the fact that he mentioned there, I wrote down two names, former governor Miroslav Singer and chief of board dealing with pension reform of Vladimír Bezděk. It should be heard here as part of the correctness, because those renowned economists, governors and similarly expressed in favour of insurance companies that Miroslav Singer is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of České pojišťovna, it should be heard, and Vladimír Bezděk was the head of insurance company Generali and until recently the boss, CEO of ČSOB Pojišťovna. That means I'm not reducing their expertise, but I'm just saying that it's not an objective view of the matter from my point of view. Otherwise, I appreciate my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura's efforts to take that view of the insured and the consumer. I believe, when we get here with my proposal on the future of investment life insurance, it concerns hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions of insured people, that my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura will be involved as agilely as he has been involved in this debate. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u13	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes until the end of the day for health reasons. And now Mr Ferjenčík's factual comment, after which Mr Řehounek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the legislative technical amendment to my amendment, which is under the heading N6.2, the correction of the rate to tobacco, House document 3441. That's the text of the correction. In the fourth part of Article 7, in point 2, "27" is replaced by "28,5," the amount "1,46 krona" is replaced by "1,53," the amount "2,63 CZK" is replaced by "2,86 CZK," the amount "1,71 CZK" is replaced by "1,79 CZK" and the amount "2 236 CZK" is replaced by "2 348 CZK." In Part Four of Article 7, in point III, the number "2,236 krona' is replaced by "2,35'. It's about correcting my proposal, where there was some sort of problem with efficiency. I'll pass it on to the rapporteur. And since Mr Stanjura is no longer motivated today, but Mr Kalousek is motivated, I suggest we interrupt this point on behalf of the chairman of our club so that we can discuss parenting and not have to meet on Friday. So I'm giving a procedural motion to interrupt this point so we can discuss parenting. I do not consider it appropriate for mothers and fathers of young children to have to wait for the House to agree on the taxation of insurance companies. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u15	Ambassador, I just need us to vote on this motion, interrupt until when. Well, until we discuss the parental allowance proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u16	We're in point 1, I suggest we stop this until we discuss point 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u17	Thank you. We can vote on this proposal. It's a procedural proposal. I shall vote immediately. [[Request from the O.R. to check out.]] I've called in MPs outside the O.R. I checked you all out. Then I beg you to rejoin your voting cards. We will be voting on the procedural motion for an interruption, as Mr Ferjenčík has put it. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the voting order number 6, 130 Members have signed up, for 54, against 57, the proposal has not been adopted and we will continue with this point. With another point of fact, Mr Řehounek is registered. Mr. Mr. Juříček will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u18	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to take the liberty of responding here to one of the nonsense taxes, as my previous speaker said, through you, Mr Stanjura. I've really looked at the history of the property acquisition tax, as my colleague Stanjura has commented. Originally, this tax was called the real estate transfer tax and was voted by the Czech National Council 5. 5. 1992 as Law No. 357/1992 Coll. And I would just like to say to all my colleagues here that there were 124 members of the then Civil Forum on the Czech National Council, and if Wikipedia does not lie, then 41 of them later became ODS members. [[11.50 hours]] So I would like to ask your colleague Stanjura if he asked his current colleague Marek Benda why this tax was set up in order to explain it to our citizens, because he was already a member of the ODS in 1991, so I would like to ask if he had not been able to ask Mr Benda during the 28 years, so maybe he could ask today why the tax was set up at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mr Juříček, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, here we see that we have been able to talk for ten hours in beautiful words about nothing. Given that the problem of alcohol, tobacco and gambling taxation would probably be no problem across the House, the merit of the problem lies in technical reserves. About a month ago, I asked the Czech National Bank if it could analyse how high technical reserves the insurance companies had acquired over the years. And I got that number yesterday from the two Vice-Governors I was dealing with, and the number, imagine it's 287 billion. crowns of technical reserves and of which is 70 billion. Kroner for the environment. So the taxation itself... [[Life insurance!]] Insurance. Life insurance, of course. I'm sorry. So what we're talking about here, from these, please, reserves are 3.1 percent. I have an admiration for the Secretary of Finance for making a little bit of a libation to make it just the 3%. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mr Luzar, Mr Votava will be ready. We're still in the factual notes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to your colleague Stanjura in his talk on the tax package, House Press 509. His arguments sounded pretty interesting. I have to admit, he's prepared himself quite honestly for this and he's used the arguments in fact. Yet, in these factual arguments, words were made that frightened me a little bit. And I will state the reason for these words. He started using your colleague Stanjura's arguments about the Czech National Bank and the report she issued in the assessment of insurance companies. I have so far lived in the belief that the Czech National Bank, as a controller, has an overview of what is happening in these institutions, but here from the mouth of an honourable colleague, we have been convinced that there is an outrageous - decent - term in these institutions - mess, that they have different reporting, that they are unable to bring those reports into line with European reporting, and we are on the global insurance market. In other words, he has spoken and used the arguments that the Czech National Bank admits and has admitted in the past and has constantly admitted an outrageous disorder in insurance companies, when it is unable to say how much reserves it actually makes so that it can be taxed correctly if this package passes. And I hope that when the report on the Czech National Bank is discussed and the Governor is standing here, we will ask these questions, and in the same vein we will ask how the bank actually works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mr Votava, Mr Munzar will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u24	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. He won't let me respond to some of the words of his honored colleague Stanjura. He's always waging such a holy war against the real estate tax. I think my colleague Řehounek has made that very clear. The tax was already established in 1992, and so you, colleagues, had the opportunity then - why did you, first of all, enforce it, and secondly, why did you not abolish it during your governments? And they raised it, yes, tells me Madam Secretary, from three to four percent, if I'm right. I don't consider the tax to be immoral. I consider it immoral that the acquirer pays it, the buyer buys it, because it also increases housing costs and increases the value of the property. Second thing. I would like to assure my colleague Stanjur, through the President, that he is really wrong when he connects me with an amendment that should select who will be subject to the winnings tax. I didn't really serve that. In general, I'm against winnings being taxed. And third thing, I've been talking about her a couple of times. Mr Stanjura constantly says and claims here, and so do colleagues from the right side, that the receipt is actually a state-supported or state-operated gambler. It's total nonsense! I don't know anybody who buys goods just to get receipts and participate in a game in the receipt. It's nonsense, my friends! And maybe I'm a little angry at the Treasury Department for putting it into the law, in that tax package as tax billing, because I don't think it belongs there. It's no state-supported, let alone gambling. I don't know a crazy guy who would really shop just for that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u25	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, time's up. Thank you. Mr Munzar, Mr Skopeček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u26	Thank you. I will speak of the property acquisition tax as being duly registered in the general debate, but allow me, colleagues, to respond by your means, Mr President, to my colleague Řehounek. I'm always fascinated by the selective memory of the real estate acquisition tax. You are very fond of forgetting that in 2019 you changed the nature of this tax in a fundamental way by transferring the tax burden from the person who sells the property and earns the money from the real estate sale to the person who buys, and therefore has to make money not only on the property price, but also on that tax. I just want to point out that we're in some kind of current situation right now. From my point of view, the housing crisis, housing prices and houses are often - for example, in Prague, middle-class does not reach its financial possibilities for buying new houses, and we should react to it in some way, and here you are always performing what happened in 1991. You've been in the government for six years. What did you do with the apartment? I'll talk about it in my performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u27	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u28	Thank you very much. I'd like to respond to my colleague Juříček, who says we're spending hours here in vain discussion. I don't think so. We are discussing a very important law to raise the already highest tax burden in history to an even higher level thanks to this package. And it is not pointless because I listened to the questions of Václav Moravce, respectively. I have read the Facebook contribution from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, your fellow party, who claims that when the compound tax quota grows from 35.2% to 35.9 percent, it does not mean a higher tax burden, so I think it will still take a few hours to explain to you that it means an increase in tax burden. No other, better indicator and more accurate how to measure the tax burden than we have the tax quota. It is an indicator that has been used for this quantification and evaluation for years, is clearly defined in a number of economic textbooks, and yet sounds from your significant member such opinions which are the opposite of what standard economics says. So I guess we're gonna have to spend a lot of time here and a lot of explaining to make you understand this thing and figure out what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Řehounek will respond with a factual point. After him, Mr. Mr. Juříček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I certainly don't have the memory to remember what happened to 5. 5. 1992. But like I said before, I was looking at Wikipedia. And I wanted to respond to one of the things that colleague Stanjura here has said through you, Mr Vice-President. That we in quotation marks, or respectively. I think he's asking why the tax even exists. So here I was trying to say: because 41 future ODS members then gave their votes in 1992 - and now, of course, I was not looking at the vote, but given that the tax was taken and that was when the Civil Forum had almost two thirds in the Czech National Council, that tax was due.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u31	There. Have a good noon. We have one more application for a factual remark, and it is Mr Pavel Juříček. So, Congressman, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u32	Thank you again. Ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, agree with Honza Skopeček through the President in principle. Of course, the tax burden in the Czech Republic is disproportionate, that we would all like it to fall. Anyway, now we're talking about technical reserves. And those technical reserves, when - and maybe I can answer directly for the Czech National Bank to my colleague Leo Luzar through the President. When I asked how it was possible that the technical reserves would be allowed to rise to such a disproportionate amount, the answer of the vice-governors, both, was simple. They were just lobbying for it here in the past governments, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u33	There. With a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Kalousek first. Then Mr Jan Skopeček volunteered. Please. And then Mr. Adamec will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I confess that now I'm lost in the argument. Mr Juříček told us that he agrees that the tax burden is disproportionate in the Czech Republic and that we would all like it to fall. That's what I heard. But through the President, Mr Juříček, if we all wish that, then why do you want to raise the taxes? I don't understand. Can you please explain nicely why if you wish to reduce taxes, so why are you prepared not to vote for our proposals under this draft, amending which are really reducing those taxes and, on the contrary, are you ready to vote for anything that will increase those taxes? The argument doesn't give me the slightest logic. If you could explain it to me, I'd be grateful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u35	There. I will now ask for Mr Jan Skopeček's speech. Mr Ivan Adamec and then Mr Pavel Juříček will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u36	Thank you very much. I want to respond to a similar matter as my colleague Kalousek. I am very glad that my colleague Juříček agrees with my views. I am glad that, like us, they think that the tax burden in the Czech Republic is above average and that we should reduce it. I think it's the result of the hours we've been discussing, and we're making very serious arguments. I am glad that we convinced the first member of the ANO movement that the real tax burden in the Czech Republic is high. The Member will also have the opportunity to vote in favour of a number of our amendments at third reading. I've already introduced them here. Maybe the basic increase in the discount on the taxpayer. Mr Juříček will be able to vote in favour. And I see it as the first swallow from the club of the ANO movement, and I believe that during the next few hours, after which we will carefully argue why we should not increase the already record tax burden, we will convince not only Mr Juříček but also other members of the ANO movement. And I thank him very much for that. And when the vote comes, I'm sure I'll look at the jinn's vote, see if he voted here in line with what he said at the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u37	There. Mr Ivan Adamec will now appear and prepare Mr Pavel Juříček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm a bit of a keg. Of course, I don't want to control my colleague Juříček, nor do I want to challenge him for anything. But I wanted to respond here to the so-called. The immorality that Mr Votava called. I understand that the real estate transfer tax should actually be paid by the seller. That's how I understood it was immoral, that it... That's how the buyer pays at this point. But I want to warn you, when it was backwards, the buyer always paid for it, whether it was in the property price or just the person who was selling it demanded it. I have a personal experience here. And the second thing about the účtenkovka. It's not like the groceries are the commodity. A commodity that's being dealt with, that's being sought out, and there's even been some odds here, under what conditions, that receipt is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u39	Mr Pavel Juříček will now appear - the final de facto so far. Please, you have the floor. And so, Mr Patrik Nacher volunteered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u40	Thank you. Certainly, Honzík, through the President, I am far from the swallow. However, we do have some priorities and some commitments to the past, which we have just to meet with the national budget 2020, so it is simple. And the demagogic talk about whether I'm going to vote for some kind of taxation right now, now that it's completely unrealistic at the moment, that's just the incomprehensible thing you're calling me to do right now. I'm just here to give you clear technical facts about the technical reserves of insurance companies. I dealt with the insurance companies. And the Czech National Bank's methodology, which you have lectured here for many hours, which in a way has somewhere sometimes logic, but it is not based on factual figures, so with those factual figures, I hope, even though I do realize that the House often does not act on factual figures, that I have convinced you. However, I am sorry, and I hope that citizens will take advantage of this, because one day the House costs about CZK 5 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u41	Now I have three factual points here. So, Mr Patrik Nacher - four even. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mr Jan Skopeček and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u42	So, nice noon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, on the other hand, I'm happy for the debate, because even the debate on taxing the technical provisions here has exposed an age-old subject that has also been touched by colleague Stanjura, who is not here right now, that is, the investment life insurance, and that is how beneficial it is for those clients. So I'm gonna say it again so it doesn't add up, that I'm looking forward to the debate of all those colleagues who now have the future of insured people, savers and so on. Because even in this contribution, it was said for two hours about the money that would remain there for those clients, which they could lose by taxing in the future. As for that remark from my colleague Adamec, I totally agree with that. That's what I wanted to sign up for. However, it is slightly contrary to his colleague Vojtěch Munzar, who is now three metres away from him, so that colleagues should sort of make it clear somehow. Because the way my colleague Adamec described it - I'm talking about the property transfer tax today from the acquisition of the real estate - is exactly what you said. Whether it's the one who's selling it or the one who's buying it, at that point, whoever's buying it always pays it, whether it's in the price, plus the price, or by paying it or taking it away. It doesn't matter. So take it between you two. In other words, I agree with my colleague Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u43	Mr Miroslav Kalousek is now taking the floor and Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would like, with all due respect, Mr President, to ask Mr Juříček if we could address the Member or Member in the Chamber of Deputies. He so fondly called Mr. Skopečka Honzík. I think it just doesn't belong in the Chamber of Deputies. Save that for your political movement. You can call yourself Vilém, Hynek, Andrea, but here we are in the Chamber of Deputies. However, I would like to point out to the property acquisition tax, which I also claim to be abolished, that if it is to exist, if the majority is not sufficient to abolish it, then paradoxically I have always been in favour of the buyer paying it. In my practice, I experienced a huge number of cases where the buyer acquired the property, but because he was the guarantor for paying the tax from the seller, the seller didn't pay it, the money probendil and the buyer got into a desperate situation where he had to sell the property again in order to pay the tax. So the risk of these human tragedies has been eliminated by the overversion of this obligation to the acquirer. However, I claim that this should be abolished, and then there will be no human tragedy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u45	Next will be Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u46	I confess that I am starting to worry a little bit about fellow members of the ANO movement, because while President Faltýnek here last week called me a young boy during the debate of the package, I am already Honzík to my colleague Juříček. I confess that I'm starting to feel uncomfortable as a fellow member of the ANO movement. I mean, I have a standard family, a wife, a child. Let them forget it and call me by name, but not by detail. Seriously. Honzík called me Mum for the last time, but she doesn't even tell me anymore because our son Honzík was born and he took over the designation. So I'd just ask you not to flatter me like that. That's one thing. But the more serious one is that you've proven what the YES movement actually does to its entire history. On the social network, Madam Secretary, you are talking about an acceptable business environment, low and simple taxes. When you have the opportunity to vote for them, you vote against them. Rétorically, you are in favour of low taxes, but when you vote, you always vote to increase them. Well, that was in the past, so I guess this time too, no surprise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u47	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear and Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared with a factual remark. Well, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the words of Patrik Nacher, I did not want to perform, but unfortunately I have to respond to my colleague Juříček. He's operating with the amount of $5 million that costs the day of the House. I would just like to tell the citizens that the House's day costs 5 million even on the day when the House does not sit at all, even if it is a holiday, because it is money that Members and House employees receive on salaries and there does not depend on whether the House meets or does not sit. So please don't use this argument. And if you think this is a waste of time, please suggest or approach any reasonable compromise on insurance taxation and we will all be able to save it. But you proposed a completely absurd proposal, and logically, there was a wave of malice against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u49	Mr Jiří Bláha, Mr Vlastimil Válek, will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Members on the right, what they mean by technical reserves. Does that mean that some business entities are better off, or are they higher up in some way? I have always wondered, and for many years I have voted for parties such as ODS or TOP 09 and I have lived in the belief that they want to straighten out relationships between businessmen. And as a result, they tell us, well, the insurance companies are actually poor people. Hey, they need the technical provisions so they don't have to tax them. And the other businessmen, you fuck off. You don't really have the right to do that. So let's say, like other companies that do business in our Czech Republic, which often have a maturity of seven months, if you count it, that's 210 days, and often they're running tens of millions, they're far worse off than insurance companies that choose a technical reserve and the non-tax. For me, a unified business environment should be the same for all of us. This means that just as it applies to me, a small businessman, it should apply to a large, even a multinational insurance company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u51	Mr Vlastimil Válek will now appear. I will read the order of factual remarks: then Mr Juříček, Kalousek, Votava. Please, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u52	I'll take three small notes. I, through Mr President, would like to assure Mr Bláha that I have always voted here and will vote in favour of tax reductions regardless of what entrepreneur they are. I think that all the parties who mean well to this state are fighting for this and are trying to do so. Then I'd like to make a note of the references. After reading that they Vrchlický the Highlander in his 45th or 50th a remarkable brat, I can assure my fellow Members that I will not be offended if I am called a genius brat. Finally, through Mr President, I would just like to make sure that Mr Juříček did not calculate the economic calculations he presented here in the same way as the costs of the House's day of operation. That would be a disaster, and then I would understand why it's going on, how it's going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u53	Mr Pavel Juříček will now appear and prepare Mr Miroslav Kalousek. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u54	I'm just trying to lighten up. Since my colleague Skopeček called me a swallow, I took the liberty, although I am clearly heterosexual, which is clearly known everywhere about me, so I took the liberty of addressing this. But to the point. It really is about the degree of justice between business. And if that level of justice over the previous decades has been lobbied in the House into this form, then this is just an attempt at some partial correction to other entrepreneurs, because of course, if we can't drain those reserves, we have to dissolve them in the next two years, which, of course, from the point of view of life insurance, is something else. But it is still possible to calculate how much is necessary in software. So that's why I did the numbers here, and I think he speaks for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u55	Mr Miroslav Kalousek will now appear and Mr Václav Votava will prepare his final application for the actual application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor. Through the President, Mr Juříček, we have all, of course, taken note of your heterosexual coming out, but we do not care. However, I volunteered to answer Mr Bláha's question, as we actually mean with the technical reserves of insurance companies. We think about them the way the regulator and the Ministry of Finance meant from the very beginning that citizens' life insurance policies should not be risked. You know, there's a legend going on here that the reserves have always been ceilinged, and only an evil member of Suchánek's amendment has brought it down. It's not exactly true, or it's only true from one-third, because it was never about life insurance. Yes, before Mr Suchánek's amendment, non-life insurance was covered, about one third of the portfolio or insurance companies, but the reserves for the 5.5 million insurance companies, the people who entrusted their money to insurance companies for their old age or for their injuries, were never limited there and were governed only by internal regulations and insurance collateral. The government proposal is unprecedented. Life insurance has never been covered here. And I think you have a decent compromise proposal on your table, which also supported the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Kovářová's proposal, which respects the reduction of non-life insurance, but does not want to devalue the 5.5 million insurance policies of people who have believed the legal environment in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u57	Mr Václav Votava will now appear and Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. So please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, first of all, to Mr Kalousek by your way. So he's right that it happened that the seller didn't pay the tax, that's true. But, colleague, it would be on such a massive scale, and even under such human tragedy, well, you've gone a little too far, I think. That's one thing. The second thing about Mr. Adamc is through you. Mr. Colleague, you said that the commodity in the receipt is, yes, a receipt, you're right. Of course, he's putting the receipt into the game either the one who bought the goods or the other people's receipts. But that someone was buying those receipts, I really don't know. If you know about this, I really don't know about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u59	Mr Jiří Bláha will now appear. Member Miroslav Kalousek and Member Ivan Adamec will be ready. We're still in factual notes. Please, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your explanation. But I still didn't understand one crucial thing. Insurance is a business like any other. Therefore, taxation of money should be as common as any kind of business. The insurance company is not the bank in which the citizen saves his savings, but only bases himself on the insurance product that the insurance company treats, manages and uses the amount of money that the citizen spends on his insurance. I don't think insurance companies live badly, they have small profits, it's about 10 billion. net profit per year from our money. Personally, I think that taxation of all products and insurance companies should be the same as for other types of business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u61	Mr Miroslav Kalousek will now appear and Ivan Adamec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u62	I want to respond to Mr Bláha because I agree with him that all business entities should have the same corporate tax. It's one of the reasons I'm not a friend of sector tax. Yes, everyone should have the same rate of tax calculated on the same basis. But then insurance isn't a business like any other. There must simply be reserves for all insurance companies, for all insurance products, even for health insurance companies, provision must be made precisely to ensure that the sector is resistant to extraordinary situations and that there is nothing to be paid by God in the past financial crisis in the Czech Republic, and we have been an exception throughout the world that taxpayers had to intervene in the financial sector in order to avoid a systemic collapse or to undermine citizens' confidence in the payment of insurance policies or banking products. And those reserves for the economy of all entrepreneurs and all citizens, it's important that those reserves are massive. It's to be resistant to the risks. What you want to approve here today is - you won't approve today, either, it's nothing but a significant increase in the risks that are harmful to the economy. [[with a smile.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u63	He will now perform, I have three applications for factual remarks, so now Ivan Adamec will speak, then Mr Vlastimil Válek will prepare Mr Jiří Bláha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u64	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I am only very brief on the honourable colleague of Mr Votava. I confess, I may be influenced by the fact that I consider the billing to be a gambling game. And that's what my colleague Stanjura said. You know, if you were looking for your receipts from the regular purchases and then sending them to the address, to the draw, it might look innocent, but then you look at the numbers that accompany this state lottery, you'll find that one participant filed 11,000 receipts a month. This is how it went down. And that may be extreme, but there are those who are just looking for the receipts, not in families. It's even the subject of a trade where the course for which the receipt is sought has been mentioned. So I think that's what the gambling elements have. And if it were that it was only within the family, I don't know a man who has 11,000 members in his family. Maybe a sheik for three generations. But not in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u65	Mr Vlastimil Válek will now appear and Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u66	Thank you. I got a little nervous because we got to the health department, and I don't know how. Health insurance companies are insurance companies. That's what you all call them. Now I don't know if you consider them insurance companies or not. What they do is health insurance, that's what they call it. Now I've learned that insurance companies are in business and their reserves should be taxed. As far as I know, health insurance companies have large reserves that shouldn't have dissolved. The government was resisting the dissolution of the fingernails. I take it that he is planning to tax these reserves and Mr Bláha through Mr President did not want to reveal it? Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u67	Mr Jiří Bláha will now appear. Member Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. So far, the last two applications. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u68	My serious colleagues, my colleagues, I think I'd split it up. I think we all know what insurance taxation is. It's about where the real deal is with the fear, which means you're gonna crash your car with the fear or your house burns down or something happens to you when you run in the woods, so we're gonna handcuff you. It's a classic business for me. We're still making differences, and we're doing some sort of garniture of entrepreneurs who have exceptions to entrepreneurs who have to make reserves for themselves, too, if it's not for investment, so those reserves have to tax. And it's based on the size of the business. That means the bigger the business, the bigger the reserve. I'm making some $80 million in production reserve that I have, and I have to have. And if I don't have it, I won't survive. The same thing, the bigger the company, the bigger the reserve must be. So I don't understand why insurance companies, which means insurance companies, not health insurance, but those who insure the normal business or the normal course of their lives, why should they have exceptions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u69	Mr Miroslav Kalousek will now appear. So far, the final application for de facto. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor. I shall once again try to tell Mr Bláh through the President. Mr. Ambassador, you offer as products excellent pastries and cakes, but you do not offer with state support products that people rely on in terms of ensuring their old age or injury. This is simply capital life insurance, which is supported by the state, and where the 5.5 million people who made the insurance expect some appreciation of the insurance, hoping that nothing will ever happen to them, so that they will not be paid early and will be paid out in a similar way to pension savings. Because life insurance never, ever here, life insurance reserves have been taxed. The moment you tax these reserves, of course, the yield of that life insurance policy for each of those 5.5 million people will be lower. And that's unfair, because they've already closed the insurance policies and they've relied on some kind of legal environment. It would be as pointless as taxing reserves in health insurance companies, as Mr Válek was concerned about this. Because taxing reserves in health insurance companies gives the same logic as taxing life insurance reserves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u71	Mr Vojtěch Munzar will now speak in the general debate and Mrs Jana Krutáková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Hello again. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Minister, I have announced that today I will deal with one of the amendments to increase the VAT registration limit, so today I will particularly address the housing issue and already discussed property acquisition tax. Mr. Nacher will learn through you, even though he is not here now, but maybe he listens to me in the machine guns, so maybe he will find out the answer to his question, which he has asked here, or to his comment. I will no longer be concerned with the effects of the individual measures proposed under the tax package, because this is what I was talking about for the first time. I'm not gonna say it again. I just want to stress, I was provoked by the speech of the President of the Chamber of Deputies and some press release from the Ministry of Finance concerning the compound tax quota. [[12.30 hours]] I want to stress that the government is clearly counting on increasing redistribution in the economy. Since the tax burden is increasing and the compound tax quota is increasing, it is to achieve historically highest values, according to the government it will be 35.9 %, the amount of the compound tax quota, according to the OECD's draft budget for 2020, it is even more than 36 percent, which is de facto the most verifiable indicator of this government, the tax burden is increasing, we are also discussing today in the tax increase package, and all of this is meant to increase redistribution in the economy. Unfortunately, the government also relies on housing issues to redistribute. As I've announced, I'm going to deal with this today, and I'm going to deal with the real estate tax. I think that we must not close our eyes in this House, in committees or in plenary, nor should the government turn a blind eye to the fact that housing and housing issues are becoming a very sensitive and delicate issue for our entire society. The fundamental question is that property housing, and often rental, is now even moving away from middle class and young people. The current state affects and affects generations of people, their standard of living and their daily lives. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the area of housing is rather on the edge of the government's interest, at least it is not one of its priorities. And if the government is already dealing with something, it is looking for complicated solutions based on redistribution and support for only certain forms of housing. For example, there is no massive interest in youth housing loans, and I fear that even the Ministry of Regional Development programme, the Construction programme, will not lead to a solution to the existing housing situation. I'm a little sorry that the Minister of Regional Development isn't here today, but it's not her responsibility, so I hope that the Minister or the Minister will interpret some of my speeches. As far as loans for young people are concerned, just for your information, the State Housing Development Fund registered 347 applications for the construction of family houses by 9 October this year. These applications are worth CZK 411 million, while the banks provided mortgages of CZK 15 billion for the whole of last year, in your opinion. You can see from the odds of that money that this instrument of government, let's say the flagship instrument of government, is - as the people say and apologize for the folk saying - the so-called spit in the pond. This instrument does not lead and will not lead to any real solution to the housing crisis. It's more like another one of this government's marketing populist gestures. The Gest that costs money, and the government is pretending to be dealing with something, but it doesn't actually solve anything at all. The Construction Programme is a total debacle and a failure of the government's housing policy. We have heard so many words about the government's solution to housing through municipalities in the construction of apartments. And what is the reality, ladies and gentlemen? By the beginning of October, according to the Ministry's information, only 11 applications for a subsidy amounting to slightly more than CZK 80 million were met and even fewer municipalities applied for the loan, namely only three in the total value of CZK 41 million. The Ministry originally promised a billion for this programme for this year and every other year CZK 2 billion for subsidies and a billion for loans for municipalities annually. And the government itself, when it sees how it doesn't succeed, retreats from its promises and counts only half a billion on the Construction Program in its budget. I just want to demonstrate, with these two figures, that the tools you want to address the housing crisis in the Czech Republic do not work. In doing so, you reject the simplest - the abolition of property acquisition tax. There is one unique possibility ahead of us to immediately reduce the cost of acquiring ownership by 4%, and this is precisely the abolition of property acquisition tax. It is one of the points that can be done simply, immediately, depends only on the taste and will of the government and this House. And I've been trying to convince you from this place for two years now that the real estate tax has to be abolished. Even if you do not agree at the end of the vote on the amendments, I will keep trying to do so. It's just a historical insertion. Cato Censorius in the Roman Senate was also the only one who fought against Carthage and finally convinced the entire Roman Senate. Although I do not fit into the role of Cato Censorio, Carthage is such for me - or the tax on the acquisition of real estate is the kartág of the Czech tax system. So I can repeat, or paraphrase, the quote -- and I'm guessing that the real estate tax is to be abolished. Because I am, and I am responding to the debate that preceded here with factual remarks in the general debate, because I have never been a supporter of the previous property transfer tax. And I think, in the context of being in economic growth, that the government is growing income from other taxes, so when do we sometimes cancel this tax that makes it expensive for people to buy their housing? It is an absurd, illogical and unfair tax. It is today the payment of the state exclusively for a citizen in the territory of our state buying property. By paying this tax exclusively to the buyer as of 1 November 2016, this tax has lost all the remains of some logic. And I agree with you and my colleague, Ivan Adamec, that before that the tax was part of the sales price. But it didn't happen in 2016, when this tax burden was transferred to the buyer, that in some short-term way the price of real estate would have decreased, that is, the seller would have cut this tax from those prices, from their bidding prices. This means that the transfer of this tax burden to the buyer has contributed to the increase in real estate. This tax, as I said, is a punishment and a fine for wanting to buy real estate in the Czech Republic, but also a punishment for the responsibility of people who want to buy their own housing, in their own possession, for example because of property security and investment in their own ownership. The only justification for this tax is the government's income in the state budget, nothing else, nothing else the government argues, but it is less than 1% of the total revenue. And that, in my opinion, is a small reason. This tax does not have the economic and regulatory character that we need, and it is time to ask what we really want, what conditions we want to set in housing. Do we really want the state to choose, Madam Secretary, at all costs and regardless of the consequences of its tithe, or 4 percent of each sold apartment and house? And I'm warning you that the new buildings are freed. Or do we want to support our own housing efforts and eliminate obstacles and financial costs that prevent many people from getting their own apartments or houses in the middle class and many young people today? A wise state should have such a policy towards citizens to promote the creation of families and its own responsibility. Providing housing is one of the essential prerequisites for starting a family. For example, many couples today postpone family creation for financial reasons because housing is getting away from them. And in a situation of dramatic growth in property prices, the state is still burdening them with an additional 4 percent. Living in it is the goal of many especially young people and middle class, who often take large mortgages to stand on their own feet and provide housing for themselves or their offspring. That's the civic responsibility that the state should support, and not throw these people under the bus and punish them. I'd like to sum up the reasons why we're proposing a cancellation... [[Reaction to noise in the neighborhood of the speaker.]] But I'm gonna ask Mr. President, I'm really here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u73	I'd like to ask you to calm down, the MP complains. [[Messenger. Munzar is responding off the microphone.]] I would ask for peace of mind, because the MP complains that it makes him nervous. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u74	Thank you. So I would like to sum up the reasons that lead us to redesign the property acquisition tax. It is clearly double taxation. The builder paid VAT for the construction of VAT, the buyer paid income tax, so the tax is collected from once taxed money. Supporters of property acquisition tax, often there were arguments and counterarguments, arguing VAT. But the question is, what is the added value for our economy? It is that one private person buys property from another private person. The first real estate purchases from developers are exempt. The second reason, in the whole Republic and especially in Prague and Central Bohemia, the price of real estate is rising rapidly. Cancellation or at least by reducing this tax will at least partially relieve people who buy their own property. At the same time, mortgage conditions are tightened. There is an increase in participation, and especially for young people it is difficult to save not only 20 to 25 per cent of the mortgage, but just another 4 per cent for this tax. Just to give you an idea, of the apartment that costs $3 million today, the tax is $120,000. I believe that for such a young family it is a few months' income that can be used much better than for paying a tax. For example, to reconstruct the apartment, possibly the equipment. It arises here, and that is another reason, a great inequality before the law, virtually. It doesn't, but it's here, to which ordinary citizens pay. Today, there is a way not to pay this tax, and that's when you don't sell real estate, but you sell the company that someone put the property in. So for those big people who use this device, they avoid paying tax, but ordinary citizens who don't have that option have to pay the tax. Unfortunately, all trends in the state's housing sector are now on the demand side in regulations. The CNB regulates mortgages, state e.g. regulates demand with this tax. But does anyone really believe that regulating demand will reduce the need to live? It's not going down. More apartments are needed in today's lifestyle, so there is a problem on the side of the offer. That's where it has to be dealt with. And the solution isn't that someone is penalizing four percent of taxes to give someone somewhere and just for somebody some money to build. As I said, there has been a significant increase in property prices in recent years, not only in the capital, but also in other regions. Average Bohemia for average older apartment 3+1 earns over 8 years, Pragueman over 14 years. The offer of flats is limping behind the demand for housing, which, of course, pushes prices up. And we can talk about where the policy of blocking private construction projects or over-complicated building law led us. At the same time, we all know, and I have already talked about it, that mortgage conditions are tightening and, at the same time, with interest rates rising, mortgages are getting more expensive. But what's real is the regulation of housing demand doesn't reduce the need for people to live. Only this demand will shift from ownership to rental housing, and this will push for both price level and apartment growth. The state is actually forcing people, young people, instead of investing in their own, so they will often have to pay for borrowing foreign property, even if they would rather buy their own apartment. By paying rent, this narrows the scope for their own savings, for example, to mortgage participation and this tax. Because property housing is also a form of property security. When buying an apartment, such a family invests in their own, and when the worst can sell such property. That is why I think that we should support the citizens' own efforts for their own responsibility, which the ownership of housing brings. I have already mentioned here that the government, on the one hand, came with great fame with preferential loans for young people, but on the other hand, immediately took hundreds of thousands of dollars out of their pocket when buying their own apartment, making it more difficult and expensive for them to seek their own housing. Moreover, in the tax package that we are discussing today, the government comes up with further complications for ownership of housing, which is an increase in administrative charges for the deposit of the property in the cadaster, which will actually make it more expensive and increase the cost of acquiring its own housing. We must realise that most real estate purchases are not one fee, but, for example, in the case of a mortgage, the buyer must make a proposal for a deposit not only of the purchase contract, but for example. the deposit of the lien. What does the explanatory note say about that? About the proposal to increase, double the administrative fees? I'll let you read it. It's really very short. The explanatory memorandum reads as follows: The total annual yield of administrative fees under heading 120 of the Administrative Charges Tariff is about 740 million. Crowns. In view of the year-on-year decline in the number of deposit procedures at a level of about 5 to 7 percent, an increase in the revenue of public budgets of around 695 million can be expected. Crowns. So much for the government's reason message. So the increased yield corresponds roughly to the expenditure on the Construction program. That's really Solomonian. On the one hand, we will give the municipalities about half a billion, and we will withdraw a slightly higher amount from the taxpayers' pockets only on administrative fees. And the government argues this - and I quote: it is therefore proposed to increase the rate of these administrative charges to double in order to cover at least partially the inflation that has taken place since 2012 and to at least partially take account of the higher administrative costs of proceedings conducted by the cadastral authorities as a result of the recodification of private law. So much for a very brief explanatory note. Without some quantification of how much the costs are actually real and whether these costs are actually spent effectively. I've already said here once that if the government accepts the abolition of the property acquisition tax, it can certainly be calculated how much administrative actions on the part of the state cost to change ownership, and then we can discuss what the amount of charges should be to cover this cost. Without it, it's just a hidden increase in tax burdens and an effort to squeeze more and more money out of people. That is why I tabled an amendment, like some of my fellow Members from the Committee on Budgets to remove this increase from the tax package. I still want to comment on that one argument, the only reservation to abolish the property acquisition tax that the Ministry of Finance has on this proposal, and that is an impact on the state budget. It even called our proposal 'constructive and budgetaryly irresponsible'. So I have not yet understood what is unconstructed about reducing people's costs of acquiring their own housing. But there's a close view of the Treasury. Instead of looking at the whole issue with fiscal optics, rather than counting the consequences of the economy, rather than considering the standard of living of the population and measuring total returns and costs in the economy, they merely accountably calculate the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. No matter the consequences. And that's not a good way to go. This is not fiscal management of the economy. This is just a rigid non-economic and bureaucratic view. Such management of the state budget leads us to bad goals and to the condition that the budget is prepared for a possible economic downturn worse than ten years ago. But back to the budgetary implications. According to the draft State Budget for 2020, the Ministry of Finance is counting on revenue from this tax of 13.5 billion. Crowns. The total revenue of the state budget is proposed at 1,578 billion. So it's really less than one percent of all state budget revenue. According to the Ministry of Finance, revenues of the state budget are projected to increase by 113 billion year on year. To be fair, without the influence of European funds, it is 95 billion. And that's seven times the total tax revenue. So no responsible government can say that it will miss 13.5 billion in 2020 when it grows by more than 95 billion year on year. Indeed, these are not the arguments of the responsible farmers. But we have to say that this money, this 13.5 billion, is not going to disappear from the economy like steam over a pot. People use this money in private purchases, in private consumption, in purchases for new household equipment, for renovations, etc. And the positive externality of such an approach would be to increase the technical level of housing. [[12.50 hours]] Let's look at the tax collection from the SAO's point of view. According to the SAO's conclusions, the effectiveness of property tax management is three times lower than that of ordinary taxes. And following consultations with the Ministry of Finance, the direct impact of the abolition of property acquisition tax can be reduced by savings on the collection of this tax. In the view of the Ministry of Finance, this is roughly 0.7 billion. Crowns. The effect of additional collection on value added tax, for example, means increasing public budget collection due to multiplications, can be expected to increase by about 20 to 30 per cent on public budget collection as a result of the fact that citizens have more money for consumption. The Ministry of Finance, and this is not my calculation, has a direct positive impact, estimated at about 2.6 to 3.9 billion. CZK to all public budgets. So you can see that fiscal impacts, too, are not critical to the stability of public finances and are not critical. In my opinion, it is a small price for the state, but for many people it is a great money. So let's cancel the most absurd and unfair tax together, let's cut people's housing costs by 4%, and show people that we are aware of the difficult situation in housing, that we want to ease them at least a little in the current situation. I regret the unwillingness of the government to abolish this tax. It is obvious that the state of the housing market does not worry the government very much. The Ministry of Finance may be able to hold hands because tax collection is growing as property prices rise, but this is not a good policy for the standard of living of our citizens. If the government wants to enter the housing sector, it relies solely on recipes that do not work - subsidies and regulation. Historically, our country has also shown that the mix of subsidies and regulations does not really work. On the one hand, the government wants to develop the construction of rental apartments through subsidies, which I talked about, on the other hand, for example, the Minister, absent today, Maláčová is starting to signal that she likes the regulation of rental prices. But no perpetuum mobile works in housing policy. Nobody's going to go into construction unless it comes back financially. Neither is the village. If the rental price did not allow maintenance, reconstruction and reinvestment, the investor's willingness to invest in the construction of further housing would, of course, fall. Nevertheless, the government relies in its comments on the residential housing fund of municipalities, and from my point of view, God forbid, that we should return to the housing requirements for apartments that everyone remembers. Unfortunately, unfortunately, from my point of view, many government officials are reducing the importance of housing by their speeches to housing policy. Even the Minister for Regional Development and the absent Prime Minister have been heard many times that we have a high share of ownership housing. Like there's something wrong with that. Show me, colleagues and colleagues, a European country where the reduction in ownership of housing has led to a reduction in housing prices and a resolution of housing shortages. I didn't run into one of those. I may be wrong, but I don't think it exists. At the same time, in the spirit of denying the development of the last thirty years, government officials criticize the privatisation of the housing fund of municipalities in their comments. And it bothers me so much because the government is relying on the loss of our society's historical memory. Just to refresh you, refresh your memory. Apart from the ownership of family houses, as far as apartments are concerned, our country was mainly state, corporate and cooperative ownership of apartments. The housing fund, transferred back then to the municipalities, was morally and technically obsolete. Like morally and technically outdated, the public area and the surrounding area of the apartments were. The apartments were transferred with rent, which often even then did not cover maintenance costs. But the most important reason for privatization was the rapid creation of the housing market in a less well-off company. The flats market didn't exist here before the privatisation. At the same time, privatization of the housing fund certainly contributed, say, to co-creating the middle class with some kind of property base and security. Of the people addicted by flax bliss because of OPBH, responsible owners were created, who began to take care of their properties. All of this, as well as the privatisation, led to an improvement in the appearance of our municipalities and cities, because, at the same time, the municipalities used money obtained from privatization to repair morally and the technology of the outdated housing fund that they had left, but also in the renovation public area. Without one step, there's no other. Without privatisation, there would be no rapid repairs to the housing fund. This was not secured by state subsidies, but by the will of the owners, because they calculated that their monthly housing costs would be reduced in case of modernisation. I am convinced that, in the vast majority, owners take very good care of the housing fund. And I'm afraid that's forgotten. Instead, we hear from government officials denying this importance of privatization and criticism, as if the apartments from the Czech Republic have disappeared somewhere. They didn't disappear. They are used by private individuals. And I'm sorry about the denial of ownership housing, which is a real form of property security. The pursuit of housing in its property is a sign of responsible access to its own life and, in a natural way, ownership leads to far more responsible concerns about real estate. Of course, we can find exceptions, but in general this is true. Therefore, the importance of ownership should not be denied, should not be regulated and should not be punished, for example, by this property acquisition tax. Therefore, in conclusion, I would like to ask you, colleagues and colleagues across the political spectrum, let us together abolish this most absurd and unfair tax. Let's cut people's housing costs by 4 percent. By canceling your tax, you'll certainly get an award from your constituents. Let us show people together that we are aware of the difficult situation in the area of housing and that we want to at least make it easier for them in this situation. Thank you for any support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u75	Mrs Jana Krutáková will now appear and Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like briefly to follow up on the contribution of my fellow Member, Mrs Věra Kovářová. I appeal to you with a request to support my amendment, which is referred to under the letter F. These are the media often mentioned, which is one of the absolutely fundamental landscape elements. I'm not going to give a lecture here about the vital function of a tie in the landscape in connection with drought, erosion and water retention. Virtually all the political parties sitting here in some way declare the importance of fighting the drought. [[Noise in the hall.]] So here is one of the tools that can be used. Unfortunately, the government proposal assumes that the draw should be introduced in the register of ecologically important elements, which is only another administrative burden for many small owners. In addition, the government proposes to exempt those other areas which have been used in the land register as a moat, wetland, rock formation, swamp, swamp, are outside the built-up territory of the municipality and are not intended for business. Our amendment then complements this list on the use of land as greenery or a group of trees. It is therefore an exemption of draw which will be on the land kept in the cadastral like the other area. I believe that the element is as important on the other surface as it is in the field, and the more people we encourage to suffer such an element on their property, the better for us and our children. I believe that this exemption will not have a major impact on tax revenues, but the impact on our country will certainly be great. Therefore, I would like to ask you once again to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u77	Mr Jan Skopeček will now appear and prepare Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u78	Thank you very much. I won't be performing long today, I gave my main speech last week. Still, I'd stop at two things. The first thing is, you may have noticed a recent World Bank report, or a fresh World Bank Doing Business ranking, which examines how things are going in the Czech Republic, or what conditions for business in the Czech Republic rule. In the ranking that came out a few days ago, we ended up in the 41st place of the 190 countries under surveillance as far as the business environment is concerned. When you look at the composite indicator closer, you find that in some aspects we are above average, it concerns completely minimal barriers, for example for foreign trade, if you look at other conditions, you will find that we are in some below average, and in some even in a very tragic place. The tragic place is for example. the time a businessman needs to get a building permit. There we are from the 190 countries somewhere around 140th place where we can compare ourselves to Rwanda and similar countries in terms of the complexity of issuing building permits. However, we know this for a long time and this tax package probably does not have much chance of changing, it is rather at the Ministry of Regional Development. But another thing that is already worth paying attention is how we stand in the conditions for starting a business, in other words, what administration must be passed by a person who decides to start a business in the Czech Republic and start a business. In this indicator, ladies and gentlemen, we are from 190 countries to 134th place, if I'm not mistaken, for 130th place from 190 countries to start a business. That's a thing I think should hit us in the eye. If we stand in such a place from 190 countries, including developing countries, in the complexity of setting up a company in the Czech Republic, let us ask ourselves how we motivate people to start companies in the Czech Republic. Another part of this composite indicator is the complexity and amount of taxes. There we are no longer in a tragic place like the building permit or the founding of a company, but we are on the rungs of 54th from 190 countries, 53rd or 54th. That's also a sub-average number, even though we're 41 in total. This means that the complexity of the tax environment and the level of taxes does not help us to move up in this indicator. Among other things, we were skipped to the 40th place of Poland, a country with which we can no doubt compare. And there is no reason - we have always been before Poland in this post-transformation period in terms of some economic performance. This is no longer the case in recent years, but there is no reason not to compete with Poland to skip the country that I think we can compare ourselves to in a number of indicators. So the complexity and amount of taxes 54th order from 190 countries, it brings us down in this overall ranking a few rungs below. If the tax environment were more acceptable, we could have pulled the 41st position somewhere better. The ranking is being constructed for years and the tax area, the complexity of taxes and the amount of taxes have long been among the part of the indicator that complicates our location, making it difficult for us to place ourselves in the Doing Business ranking on higher rungs. Of course, I wouldn't overestimate the ranking, it has its methodology, we can have a long discussion about it, but certainly when an investor or some businessman makes decisions, so that he spends his time with some more complex analyses that might come in some second, third stage, so he certainly looks at these simplistic ladders. And if he simply sees Poland in front of the Czech Republic and is looking for a country in this region where he would invest, where he would like to start a business, and that ranking will offer Poland in a better place, then certainly this person will focus more on Poland and the second and third analyses will primarily make Poland rather than the Czech Republic. And I think it is a pity that it is a pity that the complexity of the tax environment has long drawn us together in this ranking, as I have already said, with the complexity of the construction process and with the complexity of starting or setting up a company downward. Well, the Czech Government's response to this ranking and to this unflattering location in terms of our tax environment, the government's answer is not tax cuts, it is not the abolition of some unnecessary taxes, it is not the simplification of the tax system, but the government's response to this unflattering number is a tax package that not only doesn't simplify taxes, but which increases taxes further, which means that it probably doesn't change in the next few years. If you look at one indicator that the World Bank analyzes and solves as part of the rankings, it is the number of hours that an average medium-sized company in a given country has to spend fulfilling tax obligations, i.e. By filling out tax returns, counting taxes, paying taxes. And if you look at the number of hours they have to spend in a year, it's still more than 200 hours, if I'm right, 230. Compared to last year, when the World Bank counted the same indicator, we did not improve by an hour in this indicator. Last year as well as this year, an average large company must spend 230 hours in tax administration, tax obligations. It is therefore quite clear what the current government should focus on, what it should do. It is certainly not an increase in taxes, it is certainly rather an attempt to abolish some taxes. We have repeatedly put forward the abolition of road tax, the abolition of property acquisition tax, which is not, from a fiscal point of view, the most important taxes in terms of their revenues, the revenues to the state budget, but nevertheless complicate the lives of our fellow citizens and entrepreneurs. But instead of moving up the ladder, this government is going to make us sink down. The second thing I wanted to mention is a compound tax quota. This is particularly true for ANO colleagues. Believe it or not, but you can verify it in a variety of tax theory textbooks, a compound tax quota is indeed the most accurate indicator that measures the tax burden in any country. As the tax quota is growing, it is clear that the tax burden imposed on citizens and companies in that country is increasing. When the tax quota is down, this means that the tax burden imposed on citizens and companies is reduced. So when the President of the Chamber of Deputies, your fellow party, says that if the tax quota is to increase from 35.2 to 35.9 next year, this does not automatically mean a higher tax burden, as he tries to claim the opposition, he simply is wrong and wrong, because the tax quota is measuring the tax burden. It's not a political thesis, it's not a political whip that we want to hit you with, it's just a clear indicator that's used in tax theory. Your colleague explained that this says that the efficiency of tax collection is improving. But the combined tax quota has nothing to do with the effectiveness of tax collection. [[13.10 hours]] If we wanted to measure the efficiency of tax collection, we would have to measure it on the part of the state and ask how much cost the state has to spend in order to obtain one crown of tax revenue. We can talk about whether, with today's huge growth in tax revenues from year to year, tax efficiency does not really grow, because the cost of Financial Administration can grow more slowly. And I'm willing to sign that this relative efficiency of tax collection can increase, but it doesn't really say anything about the compound tax quota. We would have to look at the cost of the state, how it collects taxes, look at the volume of taxes collected, compare the cost of Financial Administration, make a time series within a few years, and wonder if the state can collect more taxes, for example, with the same amount of officials, with the same amount of costs for Financial Administration. Of course, even efficiency on the part of those who pay those taxes is not to be talked about by a growing compound tax quota of any greater efficiency. Effectiveness on the taxpayer's side regarding the fulfilment of tax obligations is precisely the indicator of the number of hours that an entrepreneur has to spend before completing a tax return and before dealing with all tax administration. Your colleague said in the argument that the compound tax quota is a simple fraction expressing the ratio of tax revenue to gross domestic product, which is right, and adds that it can therefore change as the denominator or numerator grows, or both may grow, or only the denominator and the numerator can remain stable. It's all true. But if we live in a period of economic growth and GDP is at the bottom of a fraction and gross domestic product is growing relatively rapidly, and yet you are growing a whole compound tax quota, it means that you are collecting and pulling even more money out of taxpayers' pockets than the economy is. Thus, this argument, with this description of the fraction, the President of the Chamber of Deputies convicted himself of actually saying that this government is burdening taxpayers at a higher rate than the gross domestic product itself is growing. I would be able to understand this argument at a time when the ANO movement would oppose an increasing tax quota, as a result of a decline in gross domestic product. [[The Member shall speak outside the microphone of the Minister of Finance.]] Excuse me, Madam? [[The Minister of Finance states that he is a minister, not a Member.]] Yes, I'm sorry. Madam Secretary, I didn't hear your comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u79	Excuse me, I would ask that we communicate through the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u80	The tax quota. So I would understand this argument when we were in recession, when gross domestic product, the lower part of that fraction, then the compound tax quota would grow even if you had to raise even one crown on taxes year on year more. Then I would understand the argument that it's a fraction and that it's a recession and that you're not going to do anything about the fact that the economy is just going down from year to year and that because of the fall in GDP, which is at the bottom of a fraction, the whole indicator is going up without you collecting a crown of higher taxes. But that's not happening. We live in a situation where gross domestic product is growing, and that part of the growth of gross domestic product is that there is also a growing tax quota, shows that in short, tax collection is growing even faster than the economy itself, which is proof that it is your job, that it is your tax increase, that it is your increase in tax burden, from which you simply do not speak out. So just please, when we use indicators like the compound tax quota, so let's really talk about them with knowledge of things, let's really use true descriptions, the true analyses that come out of it, and if the compound tax quota grows, believe that this has always been the case and will be the case in the future, that if the compound tax quota grows, that means that you are simply collecting relatively more and more money from the economy, you are taking it out of the private more efficient sector and you want to redistribute it into a less efficient public sector. It's simple logic, and you can't really talk your way out of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u81	Thank you, too. Now, in order to keep things in order, I have three factual points here. I know Vice-President Valachová reported to me, so now I don't know if Mr. Kohoutek, Bláha and Španěl would prefer her. Looks like you're in first place, so please, and then I'm getting a report from the secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the Social Democracy Club and the ANO Group, to propose the following. I suggest that the House pursuant to § 54 para. 4 decided to include the third readings of the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on Thursday 31. 10. and, at the same time, under Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies set aside on this day the time for their hearing from 9 to 19 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u83	I don't know if I got it right. Set the time for third reading for Thursday 31. 10th from 9 to 19 o'clock. This is a procedural proposal that is currently voteable. President of the KDU-ČSL Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u84	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, the third reading is intended for the day of Wednesday and Friday, for this reason I raise the veto on this proposal on behalf of three MPs, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and ODS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u85	Thank you. So that means we can't vote. And I don't have any other procedural proposals that I should be dealing with right now. So I will ask Mr Kohoutek, Mr Bláha and Mr Španěl, who are currently registered for factual remarks, and then it would be Madam Secretary's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u86	Thank you. Good afternoon. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to respond to Mr Skopeček through you. I'm amazed at all the statistics, Doing Business, and things like that, because -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u87	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you, then I'm gonna give you more time, but I can't hear you here. I think you'll appreciate it when your colleagues hear you, too, so please calm down and you can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if one of you doesn't know how long it takes to start a company or a company in the Czech Republic today, it's one day. The process is simple. In the morning you will come to a notary or notary, sign a charter or a social contract, notary will make a notary entry, you will in the meantime go to a business office, go to the bank, file an account with the company, return to the notary or notary in question in the afternoon, sign other documents, and the next day you will have a limited company registered in your business register. So even today, it takes one day to start a company in the Czech Republic at this time. If it doesn't work in Prague, come to Děčín, Děčín Trade Office and other competent authorities, for example, in Děčín or North Bohemia, work this way and you have the company in one day. I will take the liberty of responding to today's meeting. Dear opposition, if you say that you are not sharpening and wish to discuss, you have now had two examples on this day, a proposal from President Faltýnek and a proposal from my colleague Valachová. If you want to discuss this and you really want to discuss the tax package, now you could vote tonight by 9:00 or 7:00 tomorrow, but you blew it. So you're not talking about obstruction, you're talking about obstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u89	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Bláha, then Mr Španěl, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I already have to respond to Mr Skopeček through Mr President, because it is unbelievable what he is telling us here. He tells us about businessmen, but he hasn't been to the business council once, he hasn't been to the subcommittee on the business environment, nor in the group on the reduction of administrative burdens, but he knows everything, he knows everything, how long it takes, and he doesn't know anything about it. Now you've heard how long it takes to start s. r. o. Business, that's all you have to do is sign up for the Citizen's Portal. And if you don't want to be a VAT payer, like you're not forced to be a VAT payer right away, because you can do business first, then you'll find that you meet the prediction of a million, so you can log in, or you have to, it's your duty to log in, and because where it's being examined, everything is not visible there, so it doesn't really take that day to start a business or business. It takes a few minutes through the Citizen's Portal. Try out or get detailed instructions from the MPO, go to their site, there is a guide how you must proceed, and it will all be clear to you. We, who really do business, are trying to reduce the burden on entrepreneurs, and we are doing something about it. But most people who are discussing it here, and mostly Mr. Skopeček, only speak of it in theory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u91	Thank you. The next is Mr Španěl and Mr Skopeček will be prepared with a response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, for a very short time under the principle of repetition, is the mother of wisdom. We are a tax package, a government tax package, as an SPD, we will also not support it, because we are fundamentally opposed to robbing citizens' wallets without compensating for this increase to honest workers. Like I said, we're at the third reading. We do not know, thanks to the obstructions of the other parties, when the vote will come, but it does not hurt to recall our three amendments, which the Committee on Budgets has thrown off our table. I think that our amendments would certainly not have ruined the budget of the Czech Republic and would certainly have helped young families and workers, so I will remind you of them. We suggested an increase in tax-free income from occasional sales. That's where I think it's a trivial matter from the point of view of the budget. The increase of the basic discount on the taxpayer, which has been at the same level for many years, would really help our citizens, and we have proposed a tax reduction to small companies, as it is in Slovakia. I beg you, who can, support these laws, because they are really in favour of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u93	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. And now, to be clear, with the factual remarks of Mr Skopeček, Mr Stanjura, Mr Kalousek, Mr Ferjenčík. Then I have Mr. Bartošek's factual remark. [[Secretary Schiller is also reporting.]] Madam Secretary wants to make a point of fact, or with priority rights? With a factual point of view. Well, I'm sorry, in that case, I'll put you in front of the Prime Minister... For Mr. Skopeck. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u94	Thank you very much. To my two previous speakers, my colleague Bláh. If you were to speak only of what you understand, you certainly don't speak here every parliamentary meeting. I don't know what you're accusing me of not doing business. I have led a civil association for several years, which has also developed business activities. That's one, but I don't think it belongs here. I did not quote my impressions, I quoted from the World Bank report, which annually builds the rankings of countries among others. according to the criterion of ease of establishment of a business. If you want to argue, don't argue against me. I didn't make it up, I didn't build the rankings, the World Bank put together the rankings, so contact the World Bank, tell them he's wrong, but at this point, she just posted a report a few days ago when we're in 134th place. This means that 133 countries in front of us probably have founding a company even easier, even faster. That's all. It's not my idea. It's the statistics the World Bank issues every year. So this is just about the stuff you were talking about. I don't understand your personal attack. I know what business is. I led an association that was developing business.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u95	Thank you. Now, Madam Secretary with a point of fact, then President Stanjura, then President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u96	I'm gonna be quick, and I'm just gonna be here for the debate that came up. Doing Business, Mr. MP Skopeck. I can only comment on the part of paying taxes I'm responsible for. So there we are - we've really been doing this for about three years straight. Just for people to know what's going on. Model company - therefore it will never interest foreign investors - model company is Czech company, or national company, which has about 60 employees, produces some ceramic pots, does not export at all, does not have any contact simply - 100%... I've been doing this for years, Mr. Ambassador. Believe me, I really can out of my mind anytime. We've been getting better there in the paying tax area for a few years in a row. This year we have been parametrically staying in the same place, but I admit that in one subparameter, and this subparameter is the length of examination of the suspect's right of deduction, we have moved a few hours, we just have a longer examination of the control procedures. We're like stuck in the same parameter, but there are countries that skipped us. And when it succeeds in this Chamber of Deputies, and I believe that it will also be with your support, to enforce legislation on the My Tax Project, then believe that even in this parameter, there will be a rapid improvement. And now I ask you to make the compound tax quota as simple as possible. It's the ratio of tax revenues, which means, in the numerator we actually have the total revenue from taxes, duties and other charges, in the denominator we have GDP. And the fact that our tax quota is growing, and you know it, is not due to the increase in rates -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u97	Time, Madam Secretary! I'm sorry, but I'm afraid you're gonna have to sign up again. [[Okay, well, I'm gonna turn myself in again.]] And now Mr Kalousek with a point of fact, then Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Bláha, then Mr Skopeček, then Mrs Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u98	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, to Mr Kohoutek's speech, to the question of whether this is a debate or an obstruction. It is this, Mr President, that we desire to convince you of the benefits of some of our amendments. I am very clear that we will not convince you of everyone, but we would like to convince you of some, and this persuasion has its stages. He's just been convincing for a few hours, you're thinking about it, then we're gonna convince you again, then you're gonna think about it again. I remember a time when the opposition to the coalition was able to deal seriously with the amendments, and I firmly believe that we are also capable of doing so. So I want to tell you that the time when we're going to convince each other and think about each other depends on you just as much as it does on us. We are ready to sit at the negotiating table at any time in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u99	Thank you. And now, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Bláha will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond really to a colleague of Španěl who said that the SPD's proposals were swept off the table on the budget committee. If I am not mistaken, the SPD's proposals have not been adopted, which certainly does not mean that they have been swept off the table. In principle, the Committee on Budgets has supported several proposals and has not adopted an opinion on the rest, which is why colleagues on the right are trying to raise the debate because they are aware that the law is very controversial within the government coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u101	Thank you. Now, Mr Bláha, with a factual remark, then Mr Skopeček, then Mrs Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u102	My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, I did not want to react at all to whether or not someone was in business, but to the fact that we have been chasing businessmen all along, but in the result we know absolutely nothing about specific things. If we want to do something for businessmen, we really need to do something, not what's been going on here for 30 years, that it's always talked about and talked about and talked about and talked about and talked about, but absolutely nothing's going on. Nothing is happening until, say, the last two years, when you look at the Ministry of Industry and Trade today and you go to see what everything is being prepared - the business tenure, the trade package, so these are the steps that are going to reduce administration, to reduce the burden of entrepreneurs, but before that, all of us were only growing, growing, growing. I've said it here a few times. When I started out, I didn't have to do anything as a businessman. But then it came. One storm after another, one duty after another. And all you have to do is look into the past and see who's in charge here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u103	Thank you. Now, therefore, Mr Skopeček, then Minister Schillerová, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u104	Then I won't forgive myself for responding to my colleague Blaha. In the package we are discussing, we have an amendment - Blah, sorry, sorry - we have an amendment which increases the value added tax registration limit from a million to two. You will certainly recognize that this is a good thing for entrepreneurs, because many of them will reduce the administrative burden, and you can therefore support the business through this amendment of our proposal, since you already have the full mouth. Madam Secretary. I'd like to fix it on one thing. She says she knows Doing Business by heart. Well, it's not exactly accurate. She was right about the medium-sized company being researched, but she was wrong about a medium-sized company that doesn't have foreign trade, because within that, the Doing Business indicator is also the ease of international trade - trading across boarders. There's a sign. So if the Minister wants to quote the indicator out of his head, let him finish his studies first, make it more accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u105	Thank you. And now he will have the opportunity to respond, possibly to join the Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u106	The paying taxes area model company is as I described it. I'm done. I'm going back to the compound tax quota. So in the numerator, we have the total collection of taxes, duties and charges. We have GDP in the denominator. Of course, citizens know that rates don't go up. They know that no rates are rising, but there is a better tax collection. And, of course, we've secured it. So part of the gray economy just spilled from the denominator into the numerator, and that's why our tax quota went up. We're just better at collecting taxes. That's the whole simple explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u107	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Bartošek. Thank you for checking in electronically. Maybe before he gets to the mic, I'll introduce you to the note cards. Mr Klaus apologizes to us for working on this day, Mr. Klaus apologises to us between 13:00 and 14:00, Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová, on behalf of a doctor's visit, Mr. Schwarzenberg apologizes to us between 12:00 and 19:00 for reasons of work and for 1. 11. Apologizes for the whole of the day for the reasons of work of Mrs Golasowská. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. A brief response to Mr Kohoutek. The bill, Mr President, has it been here since May? I think so. The fact that you didn't want to assign it repeatedly at a time when it arrived here, the fact that you didn't push it as your priority is a matter of opposition? You can't be serious. You know very well that this tax package is included in the next year's budget. That means if you wanted it as a priority, you should have dealt with it urgently when it came to the Chamber of Deputies. Now that you're pushed through time and we want to discuss it properly, it's your business that you didn't have it as a priority, not an opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u109	Thank you. Now Mr Kalousek, then Mr Bláha, then Mr Skopeček, then another. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u110	Thank you for the floor. By your means, I would like to address Mr Bláha, who said here: Thirty years you have been here for businessmen, you have done nothing for them. Through the President, Mr Member, of the thirty years, the last six are yours. Why do you keep acting as an opposition party that goes to the government and does it better than we did when you could have shown it to us for six years? And what are you doing? You're doing a tax increase. You're showing an increase in administration. That's all you do for businessmen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u111	Thank you. Mr Bláha now, then Mr Skopeček, then Mr Španěl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u112	Colleagues, colleagues. I would like to introduce Mr Skopečka here to the steps that are taking place on... through Mr President, who is taking place at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but, of course, to all those who do not go into the business environment, they do not go where what can be done. This means that there are ten points for business and ten points for entrepreneurs that the MIT is working on. So, for example, support for family business simplifies the start-up, changes in laws only twice a year. End of tax exemptions, uniform form database, all obligations and information in one place, limitations of statistical surveys, simpler and lower taxes not only for companies, compensation of execution costs, more helpful building office, friendly legislation, all obligations for entrepreneurs in one place, digitization of forms, checks without bullying, so-called. The control web we are working on is already in a broader form when it is discussed with individual authorities how it will work. They start their business without barriers, family businesses and other points that will definitely interest you if you come to the individual commissions or places where we talk about it and where we try to move it. So it's all about your time, your initiative. No one's stopping you from coming to those places where you can make a difference. But by talking here, we're not gonna change anything like the last 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u113	Thank you. And now Mr Skopeček with a point of fact, then Mr Španěl, then Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u114	Mr colleague, I am a member of the Committee on Budgets, believe me, this is where we discuss the conditions for business, the tax system is very detailed. I've never seen you there before either, and I don't think you're interested in the business environment. So if I get an invitation or if there's an interesting topic, I'm happy to come to your committee, to the economics, to the subcommittee for business. I don't have a problem with that. You are invited to the Committee on Budgets, where we are also discussing very detailed business conditions. That's one thing. Madam Secretary. Even if I admit for a second that the efficiency of tax collection has improved, it should be an argument that there is no reason to increase taxes. So you can say: we manage to collect more taxes at current rates, it is great, and thanks to this we can simply reduce taxes, because in order to maintain a low-level compound tax quota, at a competitive level in international comparison, we can afford lower tax rates thanks to the fact that we are better collected and collected more. After all, we all remember when the Prime Minister, or even then Minister of Finance Babiš, tried to enforce an electronic record of sales, so one of his main arguments, by which he pushed his coalition partners, was the argument that if you did not approve me of the EET and increase the efficiency of tax collection, I would be forced to raise taxes. If you approve my EET and increase the efficiency of tax collection, I won't have to raise taxes. And what situation are we in today? We have the EET that Andrej Babiš has passed, and we have the tax increase, and we have the increase in the compound tax quota, which is simply, and you are not going to talk anyone out of it, an indicator of how much excessive the burden must be borne by the Czech taxpayer, and that is simply increasing in your government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u115	Thank you. Now, Mr Španěl with a factual remark, then Mr Kalousek, then Vice-President Okamura, then Minister Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u116	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond through the President to Mr Ferjenčík. Yes, you're right. Not all of our amendments have been swept off the table. The amendment to increase the basic discount on the taxpayer, the Committee on Budgets did not adopt an opinion, so only the two remaining amendments were removed from our table. Nevertheless, or so I would like to thank all those who have supported at least this one of our amendments here. And believe that we will evaluate at the club because we know that there are other good amendments, we will evaluate and support those who will be in favour of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u117	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Kalousek, with a factual remark, then Vice-President Okamura, then Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u118	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President Mr Blá, I welcome, of course, that you are having such a nice chat and that you have already written several papers and you have written many points on that paper. But I confess that in my practice, I have seen and read many such papers and points and that it is quite a long way from writing on paper to application. You've had six years of government. And you're telling us that you guys who came here to straighten up and improve the business environment, that after six years, you wrote a few papers? And that's what you're bringing to these entrepreneurs? While increasing administration and raising taxes are real steps that you put into social practice. So when some of the points you've been reading are put into practice, maybe I'll start taking you a little seriously. But so far, as we have read in the programming statement of this and the previous government, in which the YES movement was to abolish the supergross wage, nothing like this will happen unless you decide to accept my amendment in this material that we are discussing right now. You've had good paperwork for six years on how you're gonna do that pension reform. Nothing like this will happen because I know where the Fair Pensions Commission has reached so far, and it cannot be feared that you will actually submit something meaningful before the end of this parliamentary term. And it's like this with everything. He's been following you for six years, Mr. Ambassador, not us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u119	Thank you. Now Vice-President Okamura with a factual point and then, I suppose, the Minister also with a factual point. Yes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, in response to today's debate, I would like to repeat the position of our SPD movement. The government of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM movement increases taxes. We have here a tax package where it proposes to increase taxes from 1. 1. 2020 and the SPD fundamentally disagree. On the other hand, while looking at the government's proposed budget for next year, it proposes continuing to pay excessive sums to unadaptable ones, continuing to pay the aggregate sums to political non-profit organizations, that is to say, those who promote multiculturalism, migration, gender, the EU. Of course, we don't mind the SPD, on the contrary, we support those organizations that care about old people, the needy people. It's not about that. The government supports these. He also supports various foreign missions of the Czech Army, which vacuum the state register. And, of course, it's the billions for that screwed-up education inclusion. So, on the one hand, the government is pissing down workers and decent people, pulverizing them to the bone, because the combined tax quota in the Czech Republic is one of the highest. It means that decent, decent citizens pay like weird, they're scraped to the bone. On the other hand, there are over-paying sums that are unadaptable. So there's no way we, as the SPD, disagree with that. Therefore, the SPD will not support this so-called tax package, because decent and decent people are in the first place for the SPD. And if the government were to cut these unnecessary expenses that I was talking about, we could raise pensions both old-age, disabled, and we could support working families with children, and we could also relieve small and medium-sized businessmen. But the government just has other priorities. I have to respond a little bit to TOP 09 and ODS. They're breast-feeding here by not wanting to raise taxes, but when you started ruling, you immediately raised VAT and lied to the voters, you immediately increased taxes. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u121	Thank you. Now, Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u122	So I'm just - Ah, Mr. Mr. Skopeček isn't here, never mind. Then I'll say it in the diaper. Over the last five years, we've increased, and it's not 2019, we've actually raised more than 450 billion in taxes. Thanks to this - and to a large extent the measure from the Ministry of Finance workshop, control reports and then EET, unfortunately only the first and second wave. But, to a large extent, control reports. As a result, we have reduced taxes by almost 100 billion and further reductions will come into effect on 1 May 2020 in connection with the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, which is related to the amendment to the EET Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u123	Thank you, too. And there are two more factual points. Mr Bláha, then Mr Kalousek, and Mr Skopeček came forward. So please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u124	Thank you for the floor. So I, in turn, must respond through Mr President, this time to Mr Kalousek. What goes wrong once, before you fix it, it takes twice as much time to screw it up. That's for the record. And those who do things, they really do things, they don't just theoretically talk about it, so they know it from their practice. And as for what we do with the MIT together, for example, support for family business - we have reached 25 percent. Easier start of the company, and try to start the company on purpose, you'll find out, we're done with 66 percent. End of tax exemptions - we have met 33 percent, uniform form database - met at 50 percent, all obligations and information in one place - met at 50 percent, limitations on statistical surveys - met at 50 percent. And this is how we go. We've only got four years to do this, and believe me, the beginning wasn't easy, because the authorities, the officials, weren't prepared for it. They weren't ready for the pace, they weren't transported to the fact that there's just something to be done for businessmen. Because they were used to it, and so one deputy told me, I've been giving these messages here for 12 years, and it never happened to anyone, no one ever had a problem. Until you, now, Mr. Bláha, have a problem. And that's just it, we got used to everything just theoretically here in the Chamber of Deputies talking about it, but the deed ran away. So now something's really going on after Minister Havlíček's arrival, 100% something's going on. And I firmly believe that when the term is over, we will be able to tell businessmen and entrepreneurs that we have made at least ten points for them. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u125	Thank you. Now, three further factual points. First, Mr Kalousek, then Mr Skopeček, then Mr Munzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u126	Thank you for the floor. Mr Bláh. I have no choice but to take note - I am not only moving in the Chamber of Deputies, I am moving in the field, among businessmen. I have no choice but to note that entrepreneurs who are members of the YES movement feel that there is now an improvement. All other businessmen feel the opposite. Well, I guess we can break up on that. I wanted to say something about the Minister. Madam Secretary, say, talking about 400 billion extra revenue and giving it credit for administrative measures, that's just a lot more than I can stand for this demagogy. That's right, it's a very clear increase in the economy here. We can argue whether the measure or the measure contributed to this entirely marginally, but the dominant growth was due to the growth of the economy. And your government did not reduce taxes, but it did, because we need to remind ourselves again and again that VAT and personal income tax measures have been approved as a stabilization measure for three years. And your two governmental parties, the ČSSD and the YES, have abolished this temporary status that has been anchored in the current legal order, you have kept the money and you are spending it on something other than what it was intended for. You've increased taxes by tens of billions by this step, that's all you've done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u127	Thank you. Now Mr Skopeček, then Mr Munzar, then Mr Bláha, with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u128	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary. I'm glad the number, the 400 billion, was here, because in the light of that number, it's all the crazier that you decided to pick up a reserve fund after the National Property Fund. The crazier thing is that part of the tax package is also trying to pick up insurance reserves. CZK 400 billion extra, and yet you are unable to propose a state budget even by a crown with a lower deficit and you are still coming up with the fact that you want to increase taxes. So how many billions would you have to raise to not do this? 500? 600? Bilion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u129	Thank you. And now, MP Munzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u130	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond to my colleague Bláha, my colleague from the subcommittee on the business environment, through you. It is true that the Ministry of Industry and Trade is working on some alignment of forms and so on. But the law, which has somehow contributed to improving the business environment here, has been promoted together. I'm not going to say who's more, who's less, but together we've passed a law here, which means that the law will only be effective twice a year, a law that gives an obligation to give as an annex a table of obligations for entities in our economy, business entities and so on. However, unfortunately we see in the finals, overall, that the business environment has unfortunately deteriorated overall, not improved in the last six years. And that is because de facto with every tax law comes a reduction of tolerance and an increase in rigor by the state. Yesterday, on the business environment of the subcommittee, we discussed the tax rules. In turn, there is at least one measure that goes against entrepreneurs, which extends the deadline for repayment of excessive VAT deductions by 15 days, from 30 to 45 days. This will also adversely affect. This means that in every law that goes from this government, we will find some element that makes the business environment worse, not better. Therefore, don't be mad at me, but the 10th time you've read here and we've been discussing our time on the subcommittee on the business environment, unless it really comes into law and the environment changes here thanks to enlargement, and not the deterioration of tolerance to businesses in the law, so the business environment here will not improve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u131	Thank you. And now, Mr Bláha, at this point in time, with a final point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u132	Thank you for the floor. Maybe for the last time. I left my pencil here, so at least I'll take it back. Indeed, I and most entrepreneurs in YES are not satisfied with the state of the business environment. And that's why we're here to do something about it. But we're not just talking about it, but we're doing something. What's happened here in the last 30 years, that's what today's status is, that's what we're based on, and that's what we need to change. Whoever did this, we can put this behind us. And I'm ready with open arms for that, let's work together on that. We don't just have to talk about it here, but let's go behind that door and go there and take the specific steps. As far as taxes are concerned, it has really helped me, as an entrepreneur, to reduce VAT to food. That the VAT went down in that case, when someone came to the candy store, so I had to put a 25%-tax dessert on his plate, while home with 15%. And it's definitely gonna help us get the food tax down to 10 percent again. We're all waiting for it. And believe it, too, is a bunch of black work, because what has been done here in the last 30 years, when it has risen disproportionately to VAT on food and food, has resulted in a gray economy in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u133	Thank you, too. And there is still Mr Kalousek's factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u134	Thank you for the floor. You see, Mr Blá, through Mr President, it is the same with VAT as with the time limitation. Here was an honest attempt at a pension reform that did not appear to the government parties, which is why they abolished it by presenting their alternative. They did not submit an alternative, but the only thing they didn't cancel was that they didn't cancel the VAT increase from which the collection was intended to cover the costs of the pension reform, because it is quite costly. Both government parties, both government parties canceled pension reform, did not implement any of them themselves, but they kept a higher collection to finance pension reform rather than reducing it back, and there is something completely different about it. That's, excuse me, that's a lot more chucpe than financing pension reform from an increased VAT rate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u135	Thank you. Mr. Commissioner, at this point, you are registered for a general debate, so I would like to give you my word again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I am, without exercising my right of priority, so I have patiently waited for the end of the debate to come forward and ask you to support some of my amendments. Therefore, I firmly hope and please understand that you too will have patience with me, because my discussion post will not be one of the shortest ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u137	Ambassador, I'm gonna cut you off right now and ask the House for some peace. There's still some part of this meeting ahead of us, so please keep calm. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u138	I would like to remind you that I have tabled two amendments, one of which has not been recommended by the Committee on Budgets, but I would nevertheless like to explain to you why both of these amendments are worth supporting. I'll start with a proposal that concerns releasing the part that wants to tax the technical reserves of insurance companies. And here I add that, in addition to my amendment, I therefore appeal if you could not accept this amendment or not, I appeal as a substitute for the adoption of the amendment by Mrs Kovářová, who recommended the Committee on Budgets, unlike mine, and which, given the discussion of the technical reserves of insurance companies, I also consider an acceptable compromise. In this case, I would like to deal with the untruth that is presented to us that the technical reserves of insurance companies have always been regulated and only the amendment of Mr Suchánek, who represented the lobby of insurance companies, has abolished something like this, and the government's proposal returns to the original ones. Well, please, that's not true. Life insurance, life insurance reserves were never legally restricted. Yes, the Member's amendment, then the President of the Budget Committee, Suchánek, abolished restrictions on non-life insurance. But for life insurance, which is two thirds of the portfolio of insurance companies, this regulation has never been applied. Insurance companies adjusted this on the basis of their internal directives, on the basis of their internal collateral and, above all, in agreement with the regulator, which was first the Ministry of Finance and after integrating the regulatory role into the Czech National Bank then the Czech National Bank. But life insurance reserves have never been regulated. With this precedent comes only a government proposal that wants to regulate not only non-life insurance, I would still accept it, but I will not accept the partial impairment of 5.5 million people who have concluded life insurance in good faith in the fairness of our legal environment. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] So I ask that I support either my amendment or at least the support of Mrs Kovářová's proposal. A second untruth that I would like to deal with, and on the basis of which I would also... I will not cry it out again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u139	Yes, I understand, on the other hand, it's 14 o'clock, so we've exhausted the time that's set or reserved for third-reading law enforcement, so I have to interrupt you. I have to do the same...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u140	I respect that. I hope I can make it by Christmas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u141	Perhaps so, but I am interrupting you - I am interrupting Mr Kalousek in his speech, interrupting the debate and interrupting this point. Mr. Faltýnek has previously signed up for me with priority rights, so please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u142	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of our club, to formally propose that the 36th meeting be adjourned and that the meeting continue on Friday 1 November at 10.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-30-ps2017-036-02-001-001.u143	Yes, I think we've all heard the proposal, that's voteable, and I'll remind you that the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is being convened for Friday at 9 o'clock. Anyway, there's a check-out request, so I'm going to unsubscribe you. However, it does not prevent us from adjourning on the same day at 10:30 this meeting. So when the number of entries is settled... which I think has already happened, I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's up for adjournment at the given time. [[Waiting]] Who's against it? Thank you. The vote number 7 shall include 133 Members and Members, for 84, versus 36. [[on light board 38]] So if there is no vote-check, I would say that we have adjourned this meeting at 10:30 this Friday. On Friday at 9 p.m., the 37th meeting will begin, which is an exceptionally convened meeting on the Government Bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, and then at 10.30 this meeting would follow. Thank you. This meeting is adjourned and I'll see you Friday.
