ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-021-014.u1	14. Government bill on double taxation in relation to Taiwan /German press 434/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, whom I give this word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-021-014.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the draft law on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to Taiwan. One of the objectives of Czech foreign policy is the development of versatile and mutually beneficial economic relations with other states and jurisdictions, including Taiwan. Taiwan ranks among industrialised countries and so-called Asian tigers. The main industries are information technology, metal processing and electrical and chemical industries. Economic relations between Taiwan and the Czech Republic are essentially based on the total trade balance for 2017 of almost 30 billion crowns. The trade balance is significantly in favour of Taiwan, it is a large volume of exports to the Czech Republic, and Taiwan also invests in the electrical industry in the Czech Republic and exports these goods to the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic exports cars, microscopes and tyres. The areas of energy, bio- and nanotechnologies, aviation industry and green technologies are prospective for the application of Czech companies on the Taiwan market. Some forms of economic relations and income resulting therefrom may give rise to tax liability for residents of the Czech Republic in Taiwan and vice versa. In these cases, international double taxation of income is currently taking place, thereby reducing the income generated by residents of one jurisdiction from another's jurisdiction. Given the fact that the Czech Republic does not recognise Taiwan as a state, it is not possible to conclude an international double taxation treaty with it and thus eliminate one of the obstacles to economic cooperation with it. The draft law unilaterally replaces the double taxation treaty, with Taiwan being expected to adopt similar national measures. The double taxation rules contained in the Act correspond to the text of the standard international double taxation conventions, the OECD model contract, in order to maintain reciprocity in relation to Taiwan, which will take the same measures nationally, and to ensure the same interpretation of the various provisions as in the interpretation of international agreements. Questions were raised at the Foreign Committee regarding how this proposal was adopted. So let me also comment on this question here. The proposed treatment of double taxation in relation to Taiwan in the form of a special law is not entirely standard and the government only proposes this law because of the specificity of Taiwan's international position. The proposal is discussed by the Constitution in a predicted manner. The fact that the material is usually subject to international agreements does not mean that its regulation by law is excluded. So other than so-called. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 10 The Constitution, which presumes ratification by the President of the Republic of the presidential international treaties and ensures their application priority over the law. Other contracts must therefore always be adapted or transformed into legal order by law. Differences in the discussion of the bill's proposal compared to the discussion of the so-called. Presidential international treaties consist in the fact that the Chamber of Deputies may overrule the Senate's veto, but the envisaged law will not have an application priority over the law within the meaning of Art. 10 Constitutions, but only under the rule of lex specialis derogat generali. Edit certain areas called This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. 10 The Constitution prioritizes the law, however, is more comfortable and less demanding in terms of process. In the future, there is no reason for the government to propose other special laws instead of international treaties in cases where it is possible and easier to negotiate a standard international treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-021-014.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the foreign committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee also discussed this proposal in an initiative. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 434/1 and 434/2. I ask that the foreign committee rapporteur Jan Lipavskýý take the floor, inform us about the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-021-014.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. The Foreign Committee discussed this law at its 29th meeting on 16 May 2019 and agreed in the following way to the Government's draft Double Taxation Act in relation to Taiwan, House Press 434: After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Ing. Mgr. Stanislav Kouba, D, and the report by Jan Lipavský and following the debate by the Foreign Committee: recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government's draft law on double taxation in relation to Taiwan. I would just like to point out that we have discussed this in detail on the foreign committee and we fundamentally agree with the arguments put forward by the Minister of Finance. Of course, this situation is exceptional, we are normally adopting double taxation treaties in the form of a presidential international treaty, and this is also due to the fact that it provides greater protection for entrepreneurs and both states, because it is then not possible to change this agreement simply within the framework of the national legislative process. Taiwan is not a state, so we cannot conclude an international treaty with it because the Czech Republic does not recognise it as a state, and therefore a solution was found actually through a law that solves this issue, although in fact standardized, as it is done through the OECD methodology and it is a common solution in international comparison. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-021-014.u5	I thank the rapporteur of the foreign committee and I now ask the rapporteur of the budget committee of Mr Lubomír Španěl to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and to justify any amendments. Mr. Španěl. [[He's not present.]] He's not here. I'll have another deputy from the budget committee, please. Mrs. Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-021-014.u6	Let me read to you the resolution of the budget committee of the 23rd meeting of 7 May 2019 on the Government's draft double taxation bill in relation to Taiwan, House press 434. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Tyll, Mr Spaniard's report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's draft bill on double taxation in relation to Taiwan be approved without comment; II. empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-021-014.u7	I thank you and open a general debate in which I have no one registered in writing. I'm looking for someone from the diaper. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate and I'm going to ask for any final words. There is no interest, nor from the rapporteur, so I am opening a detailed debate and I remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I have no one in writing entered into a detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate and ending the second reading of this proposal. [[17.50 hours]] The next item is
