ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u1	147. Government bill amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended /German press 205/ - Third reading I ask the Vice-President of the Government, Minister Alena Schillerová and rapporteur for Mr Jan Volný's guarantee committee, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 205/6, which was delivered to us on 23 April 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered to us as the House of the thousand 205/7. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I ask the Minister if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. [[The Minister is talking to other Members and does not perceive because the President's voice is not properly heard in the noise.]] He's not interested in getting off. So, at this point, I am opening up a debate. Mr Munzar is reporting for the debate. And Mr Munzar has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm gonna wait a minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u3	That is reasonable, because many colleagues and many colleagues would not hear you. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that we can address the arguments that will be raised by the various speakers in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u4	Thank you again. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We made it to the third reading of the amendment to the Sales Recording Act. As has been shown before the negotiations first at the Economic Committee, then also at the Committee on Budgets on Amendments, the willingness of coalition parties to listen to other opinions, say discussing them, to think about them is close to zero. For this reason, it is necessary to recall all the main arguments we have on the amendment to the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales, because repetition is the mother of wisdom. Laws should not only be assessed technically, only their income and impacts, but our task is also to assess their deeper meaning, that is, their social impacts and impacts on society's atmosphere and society's development. [[11.50 hours]] The main argument for the introduction of electronic sales log was the increase in the state's revenues and the settlement of the business environment. And I'll get to the two arguments in my speech. But high above it stands what kind of law coalition parties want to signal society. What does a liberal society really mean to you? What value do you have for those who have chosen to participate actively in our economy by entering the difficult land of business? You bring it to this company a system that is meant to disgust people and discourage them from doing business, instead of showing them that you value their activities, instead of the state appreciating the private activities of each individual. Electronic sales log is a system that aims and has in its wine permanent online control of the activities of entrepreneurs by the state. The previous and current government under the baton of the ANO movement has provoked a clear campaign against entrepreneurs, not looking either to the left or to the right. While you defend businessmen with pleasing words, you do something completely different with your specific actions and decisions. EET is not just a system, and it is not just an EET system, but all those checks, deadlines, fines that this system carries. This is a planned creation of a hostile environment for business and for people's private activities. And you're not willing to contribute at all to reducing at least the partial parameters. We have made several amendments that should have contributed, some of them, at least to mitigating certain fines, time limits and so on. You weren't willing to listen to us. As is clear from international comparisons, companies must devote 40 percent more time to fulfilling their tax obligations than the average of the European Union countries and the European Trade Association. The Czech taxpayer spends 230 hours - for your idea. In Estonia, for example, only 50. And you, the special regime that you are introducing for the smallest, want to increase the administrative burden, bureaucracy and, in particular, the amount of time that tradesmen devote to fulfilling their obligations to the state. You have put on a dog's head for businessmen and businessmen so that you can give them a collar that you have fitted with very painful thorns, which are precisely the disproportionate fines and disproportionate conduct of the state administration. You have stood on the same line as those who in the past called parasite businessmen. You have deliberately and plannously divided the company into employees and employers. You put them against each other. You have artificially created a demand for EET measures, precisely to control entrepreneurs. That's a scar on the face of society that, instead of healing, you're making it deeper. The Prime Minister recently claimed that he wanted a small state, and yet you are building a giant system of state that is breaking into everyone's private activities. The little ones are the hardest to resist regulation. Those who earn their own money and try to secure their families. They provide us with so much necessary services, contribute their taxes, social and health insurance to joint money. They employ other people and create values in our society. Their daily efforts and activities are a fundamental prerequisite for our state's economic prosperity. They actually pay for the entire government, including the Ministry of Finance, including the Financial Administration, which should be a service to citizens and not a labor. They are rewarded for this activity, in quotation marks, by permanent distrust. The permanent distrust that the Financial Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the Government, but unfortunately also some members of this remarkable House are constantly experiencing. This mistrust is reincarnated under the code name EET, when an entrepreneur ensures and pays for his own control for the state. I called it a system where someone else would pay the cost of my return. And that's how the Treasury and the government treat them. And this permanent distrust of most honest people doesn't matter. As we all see, economic growth is slowing down. We've been pointing that out for a long time. And when it's not so good and it's starting to be, our society and the economy will be happy for every person, for every individual who contributes to the economy with their private activities. And you have reduced the contribution to the economy, to the entire national economy, to just one thought - the contribution of the entrepreneur and the businessman to the state register, which, by the way, you are doing inefficiently and economically. You are increasing the democratic deficit in our society by your measures. Instead of protecting a citizen, his rights to state power come again to the word of a tendency to protect state power at the expense of a citizen. The powers of state authorities and controls and their overuse are increasing. State power in the form of Financial Administration has been given the green light to anything so that the management of the resort can boast of increasing tax collection. There is nothing sacred to them in this campaign - neither going to the edge, or even beyond the edge of the law. The purpose for them justifies any means. And I want to ask you - do we really want this state? The examples where this is absolutely true, and why I'm talking about it, we can give tens. I'm going to start by overusing the powers of the Financial Administration that you're just expanding. A very well-known example is the abuse of hedging orders. Between 2009 and 2010, around a hundred of them were published annually. In 2015, there was a jumping increase of 1,605. In 2016, there were more than 1,500. You've unlawfully destroyed several companies. A well-known example of recent times is the example of Tobacco Plus, which won the court after years for unauthorized orders of CZK 250 million. Own appeal authorities Financial administrations have made gross mistakes. In the present case, the judge stated that, in the Court's view, the tax administrator committed a gross and serious breach of the procedural rights of the tax entity. And the question remains, how many companies have failed to appeal, but they no longer have the strength and resources to turn to the court. The second example is the brutal challenges of government, Financial Administration, newlyweds. Dozens of newlywed couples The financial administration sent a call under the threat of a half-million-dollar fine with personal questions as mandatory persons, where they had a wedding and so on. Just because she was checking out a restaurant in the vicinity of their wedding ceremony. To this day, the Minister owes me an answer to the simple question of what legal title or construction in tax proceedings to a particular restaurant is the mandatory person of the newlywed couple. Since I have not received an answer, I am still saying that in this case it has been treated disproportionately and not in accordance with the law. And it is an example of what disproportionate methods and procedures you choose for your governments towards your citizens, with only one motivation - as much revenue as possible from the state budget, regardless of the social consequences. But the democratic regime does not use the method "when the forest is cut down, the splinters fly" towards its citizens. The third example is the remuneration of officials, Financial Administration controllers, and the binding on the outcome of controls and tax proceedings. You have motivated Financial Administration officials to make their progress as hard as possible and not recognise deductions on science and research. You covered it up first, and when it came out, you made it easy. And I can think of the question - have the colleagues from the Budget Committee already received the minutes of the General Financial Directorate's deliberations according to the promise made to the Budget Committee? Anyway, the whole case itself shows how you choose to approach our citizens. [[12.00 hours]] The latest hit is disrespecting the Constitutional Court's decisions by the Financial Administration. A disproportionate retention of VAT deduction has become common practice. Despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has confirmed the right of companies to refund their money which does not belong to the State, the Financial Administration has instructed that this decision be ignored. Despite this overuse of authority, you have decided to extend these powers. It has already started with the tax package, when you decided, without some more precise definition, to put another instrument in the hands of the Financial Administration for the liquidation of companies, and that is a half a million fine for the person who gives the timely inspection report, but some data will be omitted or not quite specified. According to the Ministry of Finance, a person who tries to fulfill his legal obligation can thwart tax administration. It depends only on the consideration of the tax administrator. A half-million-dollar fine is for a small businessman, let's not kid ourselves, vanquish. For example, in one of my amendments, I am at least trying to correct this and return the situation before discussing the tax package, when the tax entity first had to receive a small fine for other errors. In light of all the other examples, it is no wonder that this proposal was rejected by the Ministry of Finance without any deeper discussion. It fits their approach to creating inequalities between the state and the citizen, between the Financial Administration, the Ministry of Finance and the businessman. It's also the same with other fines on the inspection report. Can't you, dear businessman, complete the inspection report in five days? Fine! It doesn't matter that your accountant is gone. You'll be late, fine! Do we have to challenge you even if you file a check report? Ten thousand crowns fine! And how many times, colleagues and colleagues, have you forgotten to pay an invoice for a cell phone? I'm sure you were glad to hear from the mobile operator that he extended your deadline for payment without penalty. But how does he treat our businessmen? A fine, a fine, a fine! Mistake is human, as well as forgetting. If our state were to treat citizens with sufficient seriousness, there would first be a warning, and only in ignoring such an alert would punishment follow. This is what I wanted to bring closer to another amendment, which should have abolished the fine in cases where the taxpayer himself would have delivered a check report after a period but without a call. If it delivers after a period of time, reduce the fine to a quarter. At least. And what's the Ministry's approach? Negative position. Likewise, the vote of the Government Members in the Committee on Budgets on this amendment. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] After others, you want absolute infallibility, but you don't solve, ignore, and pass on errors on the side of the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration, and you often advocacy their approach. And that is an uneven approach to our citizens! In addition, you improve your alleged achievements marketingally. For example, this is what the Annual Report of the SAO for 2018 refers to as follows: The reported statistics on the results of the Financial Administration checks were overvalued in 2015 and 2016. In 2015, the General Financial Directorate reported...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u5	I ask for peace in the Chamber - I wish a nice noon - so that the Member can speak calmly, and if you have something to discuss about this point, please discuss it outside the Chamber. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u6	Thank you, Mr President. In 2015, the General Financial Directorate stated that it measured a tax of nearly CZK 1.8 billion on the basis of controls. After counting mainly the remedies applied by the entities and which the Financial Administration no longer reflected in its statistics, that was in fact 850 million. Similarly, in 2016, when the General Financial Directorate also reported almost CZK 1.8 billion, it was actually less than CZK 1.1 billion. The electronic record of sales itself came with additional checks and other fines. And are they punished unconditionally by trying to avoid tax liability? That's the question. Nay! He is being punished for the mistakes of business employees, for administrative misconduct, not for trying to avoid his tax duties. I'll give you a few examples, we all know them in the media. Fine for unaccounted for box of tic-tac 71-year-old pensioner - fine 15 grand. In a minute difference between buying and registering in EET a fine of 3,000. For the fact that some restaurant didn't set time in EET from summer to winter - a fine of 2,000. Does that really seem adequate and appropriate to you? I think so, because you want to expand it to other businessmen! Today, you will decide that with your vote. Now this system of crime and punishment, crime against the administration, you want to expand to hundreds of thousands of tradesmen. All of these examples are clear proof of what I have said, that there is a constant increase in the democratic deficit in our country, that instead of protecting the rights of a citizen and protecting a citizen, his rights over state power, there is a tendency to protect state power and increase the powers of the state at the expense of a citizen. Every democratic society, if it wants to be healthy, needs a strong middle class for its life. Traders and entrepreneurs are also an integral part of the middle class. But they are not the donkey that you can shake forever until money falls out of it. If you're gonna do that and you're still gonna throw sticks at them, they're gonna die. I understand that someone can enjoy it, maybe even such a service market will then be divided among several big players, but it is definitely not healthy for society. I am not just saying this about the democratic deficit, but look at the different position of part of the constitutional judges who have decided on electronic records of sales. And that's where it's described perfectly. I will allow myself to read you an excerpt from the dissenting position of the constitutional judges: The economy will be robust and will survive hard times better just if there is sufficient diversity and self-sufficient, to help from the common independent business layer will remain in the outskirts - pubs and other establishments in small municipalities, small and self-employed entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, students, etc. For many of these people, however, EET is the proverbial last drop that drives them out of business or drives them into a grey economy, which will pave the way for their big competitors towards a corporate, large-scale and subsidising state. This creates a small hyperrich elite and then only worse or better paid employees. We can thus come into conflict with the material nature of democracy. It is possible only in a society made up of a substantial layer of really free, independent people. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 The Charter means the right to a free choice of everyone in how he will provide his means of life. The right to decide whether a person will be dependent on someone (depending on activity, employment/, or taking care of himself, with all the resulting risks/business/. The right to conduct business is derived from the right to own and dispose of property freely. However, it also has to do with the ban on forced labour. Experience from the previous totalitarian regime testifies to this. The Communist regime not only allowed business but punished them directly. The combination of acts of speculation, illicit enterprise and abstinence forced everyone to be employed. She forced him to depend on almost one employer, namely the state. Let us mention a very small group of private farmers and a slightly larger group of cooperative workers. A society in which the vast majority of citizens depend on one or several employers for their livelihood is not a free society. Therefore, the right to engage in one of the fundamental rights creating conditions for a society of free citizens. Respect for freedom of any kind, not just business, must always come first. However, the declared goal of the EET does not correspond to that respect. The primary purpose of work and business is the creation of material values and the provision of services to other members of the company. The fact that work and business can be taxed is secondary to the successful functioning of the company. While a functioning company can be imagined funding its needs from taxing other facts, such as immovable property, natural wealth, deposits in accounts, bank transactions or consumption in general, cannot exist without work and business. [[12.10 hours]] Therefore, prior to the introduction of the EET, the state should have honestly and thoroughly examined whether all the less invasive and harassing options available to it to control the correct and fair collection of taxes had been exhausted. However, none of this has happened in the present case, although the introduction of an EET clearly constitutes an additional administrative and financial burden on the business activities of entrepreneurs. Sticking to the mere fact that the introduction of the EET is very likely to lead to an increase in tax collection - a measure that will stand up to the test of reasonableness - and therefore will also stand up from a constitutionally legal point of view, it is very dangerous and exploitable. The introduction of the EET under the publicly presented, albeit empirically unsubstantiated political impression that no one pays taxes, and therefore it is appropriate to tighten their selection, namely, we consider it equally unreasonable and unfair in our consequences as leaving the whole class after school just because one student disturbed at an hour. Unfortunately, this entry is a fundamental philosophy of the contested law and it is not solvable by eliminating only a few of its most vicious interventions in privacy and freedom of business. And perhaps that is why, ladies and gentlemen - that was a quote from the Constitutional Court - so many socialists understand oligarchy. A large part of society wonders. But there's no surprise that they're natural allies. One does not want separate citizens, separate people, because the same people are less politically controlled. And oligarchy wants to expand its economic power again. And he doesn't need competition. He wants to control other parts of the market. And it's all for different reasons. But yet, hand in hand, they are heading towards a common goal. That was just a brief, let's say a philosophical introduction. The more fun part, I promise, is yet to come, and that is when I describe in what other activities the government wants to level the environment. I would like to get to two reasons why you want to expand the EET, namely to level up the business environment and increase tax revenues. I'll also have some questions for the Minister who left and should be present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u7	I would add that the Minister has asked me that she needs to use the bathroom for two minutes, so I made it possible for her. So I can take a little break. Yes. But now the question is... [[Messenger. Munzar's suggesting a break.]] Okay. If you have questions for the secretary, we'd take two minutes to get the secretary back. [[Members propose five minutes.]] Five minutes? Well, now we can't come out of the diaper again, so the MPs can tell us what their pause requests are. So... [[Messenger. I would ask you, Mr. Chairman...]] That decision is entirely up to me. So let's give three minutes and do the mean. So three minutes' break, and the secretary will be back in the meantime. I'm just gonna make it clear that I'm taking a break until 12.16. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 12.13 to 12.16 hours.]] The break has passed, so we will continue the open general debate. I'll ask Mr. Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u8	Thank you. I said here, let's say, a more thoughtful philosophical introduction to what EET represents to me. And I'm getting to two reasons why you want to expand the EET. Those two reasons...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u9	I will ask you for peace of mind so that the Member can express himself, and again I call on you if you have anything other than the contents of this point to discuss it in the foyer. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u10	The two reasons are the alleged settlement of the business environment. And the second reason is an increase in tax revenues. I'll start with the alleged increases in tax revenues. EET has not been shown to bring any substantial increases in revenue to the state budget. The public has been misled in the long run by Andrej Babiš repeatedly telling the media what tens of billions it will bring us, and schools, kindergartens, hospitals, highways will be built for it. The reality is that investment in 2017, state investment, was the least in the last 12 years. And for 2018, they only reached absolute 2011 levels. However, their share, the share of investment in the total expenditure of the state budget, has been declining in the long term. They're growing massively routine expenses. The state is investing less and less. So there's no massive construction of preschools, schools, hospitals and highways. And now the Prime Minister has a new spell. Now he thinks the banks should contribute to kindergartens, schools, hospitals, highways. It's just to the edge. The credibility of the data submitted is, to put it mildly, questionable. The revenue from the state budget attached to the EET is sucked out of the finger. The credibility of the numbers presented is debatable, even if they are presented to the public as facts by the Ministry of Finance. And my question to the Minister is, how can he say with 100% certainty that the crown, plus one crown in the state budget, is due to the EET's influence? That means the crown was hidden in the past, and thanks to EET, it came into the state budget. Or did the state acquire this crown because it was economic growth and a new customer came to the entrepreneur or bought the existing one more? Can this, with 100% certainty, identify this crown, Madam Secretary? I think that's a rhetorical question. He can't. Of course not. And the SAO also talks about it in its annual report. Again, quote: "Other influences have contributed to the growth of tax collection, such as the introduction of a control report or an EET since 2016, but their influence has not yet been crediblely quantified by the Ministry of Finance." According to the Ministry of Finance, the current EET waves concerned 170,000 traders and restaurant owners. The new hairdressers, painters, painters, carpenters, locksmiths and other craftsmen, as well as office activities that pay in cash, are to be another hundreds of thousands. And that's what we're gonna decide today. [[12.20 hours]] Now let's look at the cost. The explanatory memorandum of the new law does not contain a quantification of costs for the business sector. This chapter, when you read it properly, colleagues and colleagues, reminds more of supermarket marketing events. There are a lot of words like "there are solutions available in prices from CZK 5,000." You all know that if you're going to buy something at a price of something from 5,000, you're going to buy something three times, four times the price, so that it's good quality and meets your requirements. I'm here at first reading right in the first speech, trying to figure out the cost for businessmen, and I'm going to repeat it to you again. The acquisition, installation and maintenance costs up to tens of thousands of those entrepreneurs. Even if one were to keep to the ground at some average price, let's say CZK 20,000 per facility, the current wave stood at the acquisition of equipment of 3.4 billion. Internet connection per month, say 500 kroner, that's 6,000 per year, that's roughly another billion. So, in total, the cost of those entrepreneurs to introduce state on-line control under the code name EET was about 4 billion. CZK, only provided I count one device per taxpayer. Actually, it's more than that. So maybe the entrepreneur's introduction of the EET was the same, maybe it cost more than alleged VAT returns. And you want to burden another hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs with similar costs, and you say you want to straighten out the business environment. And you want to level up the business environment with brutal regulation. In itself, equalizing the business environment with brutal regulation is a contradiction, because the best way to grow private activities is to create a liberal environment. For so long, you will straighten out the business environment when you have completely leveled it, leveled it, and flattened it. And we can see it in numbers. In 2017, more than 1,000 rural mixed goods outlets ended according to the result of the Nielsen study. In 2018, another 513, 90 percent of these 513 were led by small businessmen. Although EET is not the only factor, it became the proverbial last nail in their coffin. I'm sure it's welcome to the networks of the larger supermarkets, because their competition is disappearing. Now you want to level up the business environment, and the Ministry itself has admitted that it is not able to check the implementation of the EET for all activities, so, as it turns out, hard regulation and costs will only result in honest ones, like most state regulations. We all know that we have a lack of craft activities, we have a lack of craftsmen. Many of them are of advanced age. Many also say that they will abandon the activity if they are burdened with meaningless EET regulations. And that's what you're leading us to. You can't hear either on the right or on the left. You're proposing a special regime for the little ones, but you're just replacing the electronic fag with the paper one. And since I also promised a more entertaining part, I come to the individual activities in which you want to design electronic sales records. When there was a meeting of the budget and economic committee, a representative came - now I'm sorry, I don't remember the name of the association, any association of hotels and accommodation facilities or anything - and he was wandering terribly to straighten out the competitive environment for plumbers. I really don't know how a plumber competes with a hotel. I really didn't get that. But the hotel agent came up with the support for electronic records. But as I'm saying, I don't know how to level the competition and the business environment between hotels and plumbers. By the way, the installation of water, waste and gas, heating and air conditioning is one of those activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 43.22. And I was really looking forward to this moment to discussing other activities in which the government wants to level up the business environment, where there is a very deep and significant inequality. Imagine such an activity in the cultivation of tropical and subtropical fruits. Yes, that is essential, where we have to straighten out in the Czech Republic in a temperate band of business environments. The state seems to be losing substantial tax revenue here. But in order not to be wrong, perhaps it is the preparation of this government, such visionary, for climate change. But my question is, what kind of revenue prediction does the Treasury, Madam Secretary of Finance, tell us for growing tropical and subtropical fruit? Same thing growing citrus fruit. Yes, that's where the government wants to level up the business environment. This is also an interesting activity listed in the NACE classification under codes 01.44 - camel and camel farming. So I don't know how camel breeding is widespread in the Czech Republic and how there is a distortion in the market and the inequalities that the government has to level out, but again I say, maybe the government is so visionary that it already wants for example. respond in advance to the development of electromobility and lack of water. That may seem like an argument for camel and camel breeding. I don't know, maybe we'll get an explanation. Another activity where the government wants to level up the business environment in the activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 03.11 - Sea fishing. I agree that we have an unequal environment towards other states, because we just don't have the sea, so the sea is simply missing to make up for it. But never mind, the government promises blue from the sky, so maybe we're missing the sea. Anyway, as long as he's straightened out. Of the activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 08.93 - salt extraction. Yes, the business environment in salt extraction needs to be balanced in particular. There is no salt in the Czech Republic, but that doesn't matter, the main thing is that it is flattened, right? Of the activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 10.20 - processing and preserving of fish, crustaceans and molluscs. I would like to know, Madam Secretary, what share this activity has on Czech GDP and how much income the Ministry of Finance expects from preserving crustaceans and molluscs. Another, we recently experienced it, the activity listed in the NACE classification under codes 16.29 - production of other wood, cork, wicker and straw products except furniture. So the wicker baskets and buffs were a lot around Easter, that's a lot that gets messed up every year. Yes, that's where the righteous eye of the state needs to be straightened out. We can also talk about NACE under codes 32.91 - production of brooms and brush products. But where it is important to level up the business environment, the activity listed in NACE classification under codes 50.10 - maritime and coastal passenger transport and under codes 50.20 - maritime and coastal freight transport. Yes, I would also like to know what prediction the Ministry of Finance has, but I have already talked about the sea. This is the best I can read to you right now, where the government wants to straighten out the business environment. Activity listed in NACE classification under codes 51.22 - Space transport. I thought the sea couldn't be overcome, but the universe is a different league. The government seems to be thinking ahead of a very distant future, which is so far described in science fiction novels. So I myself liked to read Troska, Souček, Čapek, from abroad for example Asimov and certainly would all be pleased as the Czech Republic already has resolved space transport. We don't have spaceships, but we're about to introduce the receipts for going to space. Maybe I'm wrong. It may have contributed to this, it is a response to the introduction of Galileo in the Czech Republic and some relations with the European Space Agency. I don't know. But according to the government, even in space transport, it is necessary to straighten the business environment. Maybe we could export it to NASA as an example of good practice. [[12.30 hours]] Then we have here not so smiling activities, but also important. Activities listed in NACE classification under codes 55.90.2 - higher education accommodation, youth homes. There is a fundamental inequality. And I thought that college colleges were suffering from a lack of investment and modernisation, but apparently the biggest problem is reporting sales. EET should straighten it out. Activities listed in NACE classification under codes 56.29.2 - catering in school establishments, menses. But seriously now, colleagues and colleagues. School cuisine offering meals to, like, seniors in the area, and we're gonna ask them to have an EET? Seriously? Of the activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 64.11 - Central banking. So what I'm supposed to understand is that we're going to introduce an EET obligation for the central bank? Because this is also one of the activities listed under the activities to be covered by the EET. Of the activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 74.20 - photographic activities. Look out! Even photographers will have to have an EET. I can already see a photographer like that carrying a mobile printer with him besides a camera bag with lenses. Of the activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 74.30 - Translation and interpretation activities. Even interpreters will have to have an EET. Activity under code 75.00 - veterinary activities. So it applies to doctors, vets, things like that. Of the activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 79.90.1 - Guide activities. Even guides may have to carry a mobile printer with them to print out an EET receipt. And now it's just telegraphy. This will apply to the activities of general cleaning of buildings. So even the cleaners will have to have an EET. General public administration activity. Even activities listed in NACE classification under codes 84.21.1 - assistance to foreign countries in disasters or emergency situations, directly or through international organisations. Apparently, there is also a need to level up the business environment. From activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 80.40.21.2 - developing mutual friendship and understanding between nations. There is probably also a fundamental inequality that we will correct EET. It will also cover pre-school education, primary education, artistic education, specialised outpatient health care, social care in facilities for persons with chronic mental illness, social care in homes for seniors, outpatient or field social services for seniors and persons with disabilities, outpatient or field social services for seniors, botanic and zoological gardens, scenic arts, there it is also probably essential, activities of sports clubs, activities of even political parties and organizations and activities of households providing unspecified services for their own use. There's over 700 of these activities. I've only chosen a few. Some to entertain you and some to show you what activities he wants to enter into by disproportionate regulation and online control of entrepreneurs. I am getting to the amendments in particular. I've already mentioned some, so briefly. The Financial Administration can now, and I have already talked about it, impose a liquidation penalty of up to CZK 500,000 for, for example, a poorly completed inspection report, which is submitted on time if the Financial Administration considers it to be a tax evasion. Previously, the Financial Administration had to give a lower fine for other errors, for example, for not giving the entrepreneur a check report within a period of time, and only then proceed to the highest one. According to the Ministry of Finance, only once such a fine has been imposed in the past. In order not to be given only once, the Ministry of Finance changed it in the tax package and de facto had the Bianko check approved for possible tax fines of CZK 500,000. My proposal returns the situation before accepting the tax package and you will find the proposal under the designation G 2510. I beg you, colleagues, to at least think about whether, in the light of all the cases that I have said here at the beginning, not to lighten up a little bit for those entrepreneurs and not to put such great authority in the hands of the Financial Administration. I believe that the impact of the new regulation that I am trying to change is clearly negative in the business environment and contributes to the uncertainty of business entities. This legislation does not take account of the seriousness of the error, so those fines could be imposed at the same rate for administrative or unintentional misconduct as well as for fraudulent acts. The definition is too vague and can actually cause further liquidation of companies. I propose to further increase the deadline for supplementing the inspection report from five to fifteen days. If the Financial Administration invites a businessman today to complete the inspection report, he has only five days to do so today, otherwise he is in danger of being fined. And that's a complication especially for the smallest people who don't have a team of people, they don't have accounting departments, they do it themselves, or they have one single external accountant, so there's no representativeship. All they have to do is get their accountant on vacation or sick, and then, at the very least, the businessman can't provide for it. With the extension of such a period, there will be no damage to the State, only to allow entrepreneurs a reasonable period of time. I just remind you that for most of the operations the state and officials have about 30 days. So I'm suggesting for the businessmen raise it from five to fifteen. You'll find it under the designation G 2604. Another amendment that I am proposing is that today the trader can receive a fine of CZK 1,000 only for submitting himself without a call, but after a period of time, an additional inspection report. This means that he himself realizes his mistake that he has forgotten, and he will deliver it himself without a call from the Financial Authority after a period of time. And I suggest in the alternative And either a complete cancellation, or in variant B, at least a reduction of this fine to CZK 250. Because we are talking about people who have tried to correct their own mistakes. In such cases, the fine is not appropriate. It is clear that the businessman did not want to circumvent his tax obligations, and the state should be more tolerant. The state also gives fines to those who submit control reports after receiving a call of CZK 10,000. Anyone can forget. I used to compare it here at the beginning with, for example, paying the phone bill, where operators give a deadline without penalty to pay the invoice. Hand on the heart that didn't happen. Maybe it happens to me sometimes. And I think that's why there's some tolerance from the state to the tradesmen, and that's why I propose lowering the maximum limit of the fine from 10,000 to 2,500. This is Amendment G 2605. I think that's the minimum this House can do for businessmen, and it could encourage a government coalition to show me that maybe I was wrong about some of the things I was saying here. But we'll see in the vote. Another amendment that we are proposing is that in all premises there must now be signs where it is written "according to § XY the seller is obliged to issue a receipt". I think it's a useless legal obligation that only allows you to give another fine for something. It has nothing to do with the tax collection or the settlement of the business environment. I therefore propose that this obligation be abolished. [[12.40 hours]] My last amendment cancels the introduction of an overall third and fourth EET wave, because, as I said, the revenue from the first waves is unproven, as well as expectations from other waves are not clear. On the contrary, this would lead to an increase in business costs, an increase in administrative costs and an increase in state regulation. Today, the vote of each of us not only on the law as a whole, but on the partial amendments will clearly show the environment in which we want entrepreneurs and businessmen to live and do business - either in a friendly environment or in an environment of fear and stress before the inadequate approach of the Financial Administration in the name of the holy struggle to increase the revenue of the state budget and in the name of permanent preventive distrust of entrepreneurs. It's everyone's decision today. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u11	Now here's a point of fact. With a point of fact, Mr. Svoboda is registered, so I'll give you my word. So you're downloading it, or it was an accident. So we have Mr Marian Jurečka reporting to the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, the remaining members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to briefly and factually address this fundamental issue, such as the extension of electronic records of sales and some adjustments in the VAT Act, several of my views. I have spoken here at first and second reading and at committee meetings, both economic and budgetary, but I am asking myself three key questions, and I would like the Minister to answer them in conclusion perhaps in a slightly broader context: why we are doing this, how we are doing it, what the outcome will be. Because if we have a mantra here that at all costs we have to put EET on all business activities in the Czech Republic just because we think it's fair that it compares with a competitive environment, I think that in many cases, both in the Czech Republic and abroad, we see that this is not the case and that it doesn't quite work that way. Because then we could ask why we have different levels here, for example, of expenditure flats for businessmen, we could look at Austria, Switzerland and other countries where they even go so far that they have not only different approaches to different types of sales records, but maybe they have different approaches in that in some parts of the Alpine cantons they have lower VAT on different types of products, services within one state precisely to distinguish the different specifics of those activities in different regions, to support the activity, the activities of those people, the sustainability of services, etc. When I was Minister of the previous government, the coalition agreement, when we were closing it here, was clear that electronic sales records would apply to selected types of activities and trades, not to all on a flat-rate basis. There was also a part of the coalition agreement that said that it would be implemented and implemented in such a way that it would not entail higher costs for the traders who would implement this scheme. Unfortunately, that didn't happen either. Yes, I have repeatedly said that the way in which we applied the EET was a mistake and it was also my personal fault that I accepted this principle here at the Government's meeting and that I then blindly believed that here in the Chamber of Deputies or in the Senate, we would change some of the parameters of the then approved electronic record of sales. However, at that time, as KDU-ČSL, we at least pushed for the third and fourth wave to shift to this period. And we are in a situation today where this is what we are going to be dealing with, making decisions, and we will have the fate of these tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people in these fields. This is where I wonder why we're doing this. The Minister, the Prime Minister and some others say - even members of the government, coalition - that this is in order to increase the collection of taxes and increase the revenue of the state budget. But the Minister herself, it is in the tapestry, at the meeting of the Economic Committee, said that, in fact, hand in hand with this introduction of the third and fourth wave expects - and this is part of this package - a reduction in VAT for many selected items, and that this reduction in VAT will actually mean a non-profit in the state budget of 3.5 billion. Crowns. And so the expected increase in revenue, on the one hand, the introduction of a third and fourth wave of about 3.5 billion. CZK, we buy out by reducing VAT on some activities on the other side and it will mean not collecting 3.5 billion. Crowns. So we're doing something that doesn't actually bring higher revenue to the state budget. Unfortunately, the VAT reduction does not concern all those to whom the third and fourth waves fall. So even the argument that would balance it and say yes across the board, part of the businessmen we're increasing their burden, but we're balancing it by some step that they're going to have some higher part of the sale, of the sales, but it's just not going to apply to everyone. Here, on the one hand, it is called the spell "we will increase it, compare the business environment" but, on the other hand, selectively, only for some types of business activities, we will reduce VAT. It doesn't add up in its own logic anymore. I'm bohužel so. I mean, even the way we do it, it just isn't fair, it's not equal and fair for everyone, and it just can't be. And what's the result? For the state budget zero from zero will go, just 3.5 billion. on the one hand, we forgive by reducing VAT, and on the other hand, some believe that we can collect it. I'm going to use all these three questions here, the example that's so beautifully interlaced with the whole EET theme, and that's the sale of Christmas carp. My previous speaker, Mr Munzar, has used a lot of really absurd examples for which we want to introduce this by decision of us, Members and Parliament of the Czech Republic. Why do we, on this example of carp, in a situation where we know that this type of sale is being made about two weeks before Christmas holidays, why are we applying EET to this type of sale? Yes, there's a proposal that says - we can simplify it to those dealers, to those who pull the carp out of their vats in those freezing conditions, either wear gloves or don't, while killing them, while removing their scales and gutting them, so we're gonna make it easier for them by pulling out their wet hands, or taking their gloves off their hands, they're gonna have to pull out the paper pads, hoping it doesn't melt, it doesn't fall off. Oh, my God, what's the simplification? And this is how we apply it to a huge number of activities. I mean, those entrepreneurs have most of their sales through invoices. Here we argue the tradesmen of the type of plumber etc. After all, most people who build today fund it through construction savings, through mortgage loans, and need proof that the part was done to them, otherwise no one will pay them. With these carp, we know how much the body has fished, there's been state supervision in the form of veterinary supervision all along. Still, we're grafting it. What's the effect? Are we asking the question? I urged the secretary to go try and try it on with the boxes, what it's like to simplify in the 21st century. Unfortunately, I didn't hear an adequate response that the secretary would say yes, I think it's illogical here. And in many ways, it's illogical why we want these entities to do it. The state is supposed to have a certain degree of efficiency. Is this effective, what are we going to do now? I just don't think so. However, I don't want to prolong my performance, and I don't want to be seen here as someone who is obsessing, I have said most of my factual reservations here at first and second reading. However, I would like to ask you, colleagues, as I have addressed you in the last two or three weeks, to support my amendments, which I have presented here, which I think are logical. I would like to draw particular attention to the one that could help not only in this area in this situation in the Czech Republic, when we have been dealing with a catastrophic situation in the ownership sector and the wood market sector, but this proposal could help reduce air pollution, especially in smog regions such as Ostrava, and it could also help encourage households to use more environmentally friendly renewable fuels such as pellets, briquettes and fuel wood. I propose a reduction in VAT for these items in this package. [[12.50 hours]] I think the state here can offer that people do not prefer fuels that are dubious qualities or possibly fossil fuels, but that they prefer renewables. That's how it's offered here. With this amendment, we are really able to kill three birds with one stone. Help the overloaded forest sector, help air pollution while effectively motivating households to support and make more use of this fuel. Because most of them drown primarily with brown coal not because it wanted to, but because it is just one of the most economically advantageous fuels for them at the moment. Please, let us consider all these circumstances and please support these amendments. I think that the amendment, which concerns organic food, also has its reasons, its logic in the situation where we are talking about soil quality, the quality of groundwater, farmers' access to the environment, as well as the promotion of organic food and the whole sector of organic farming is something that should merit the support of our Members and Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u13	As the next and the last one, I have signed up for Mr Václav Klaus' general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be able to reconstruct either, because I can't even speak for long. And I'd like to say a few words. Taxes are supposed to be low and simple. This is the best settlement of business and any other environment. And it can't be that people who work and pay taxes are stupid. That's what I think about it globally. And now, with permission, I'm going to go back to the previous law, but I'm going to follow up on the present one, so don't take my word for it. Maybe I don't understand why we're adopting the law on electronic disability. I'm in favour of electronization, etc., but I just don't understand why there has to be a law on it. After all, the Minister of Health or Social Affairs would have set it up if it worked miserably, so the opposition will be furious and screaming here and the journalists will tear it apart. If it works out well, he'll be bragging about it in the campaign he's running. That's it! Why must there be a law on such a thing, I asked myself here when I listened to the long debates. My point is that it's clear that there must be a law for a quarantine period, whether it's three days or zero days, or how many, I understand that there's a law for that. But why is the law adopted on such a technique? And it turns out it's because it's the information system. That some kind of information system is already going into that law, and some company is going to do it for that billion or how much the Ministry is going to supply. There's another reason why we don't accept the law for every stupid thing. And to get to the EET. Now this third, fourth or nineteenth wave, or whatever it is, where the EET is already on those camels and coastal sea shipping and other really crucial things, it seems to me that the reason must be exactly the same. There's probably some kind of electronization and some other money for some companies that are going to implement it to make the blogs work, etc. I think both are wrong and there are a lot of laws, and so on and so on, I criticize often, but this is what I thought of watching the last law and the present one. That's why it's taking so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u15	Now I'll read two apologies. Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes for working reasons, today from 12.30 to the end of the day. And the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes from 13:00 on account of urgent work issues. So now, in the general debate, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, so far the last one registered. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't go to lunch either, to listen to the debate, and to make sure the Minister who has to sit here, because otherwise it would have been interrupted, she had fair conditions. And on top of that, I'd say one guinea pig. Those MPs are the only restaurants in this country where it won't be EET. I think that's a pretty good illustration of how laws are adopted here. That we're gonna put some duty on all people, except for ourselves. So the state institutions don't have to deal with it, and the officials are telling you how every obligation is that it's written somewhere, that it was before, that it's a small expansion, that it doesn't do anything extra to anyone. But it's not gonna happen to them to bring it in. EET, it's a sort of flagship of Andrej Babiš's political action. That is indeed the law with which Andrej Babiš joined his political career. It is the only law that actually has some social impact that Andrej Babiš has actually enforced, unfortunately. And this flagship of the YES movement has a leaky bottom. First, it has a leaky bottom because it doesn't bring the money the government claims it brings. The alleged EET return is overvalued purposefully. We deliberately made calculations for applying your methodology to last years, and the EET brings money according to your own methodology in 2014, 2015, when it was not implemented at all. It's just that your methodology for estimates of alleged EET returns is sucked out of your finger. It's a housenumer that you normally make up all you want, and you still have the nerve to tell the citizens that they're facts. That's totally unacceptable for me. And even worse, it's in relation to the third and fourth wave, where there's no logical thought to suggest why, for God's sake, someone who doesn't issue receipts today should start with it just because you're forcing EET to cash out. Moreover, the fact that the figures are unfounded was also stated by the Supreme Audit Office in its final report on the State Final Account for 2017. So there, the Supreme Audit Office accuses the government that the alleged EET returns are not sufficiently justified. Likewise, this ship has a leaky bottom because it is an example of how there should be no selection procedures in the state administration. It's a vendor lock-in system of one contractor selected without a tender. What Mr. Babiš once criticized when he entered politics to do when it suited him. The second problem is that the system has no added value for entrepreneurs. This is some repressive measure, some bureaucratic instrument that will force the entire business sector across the board, but it doesn't bring anything at all to those people. I would have expected that the moment you built such a robust information system, you'd be wondering how, if you were already collecting the data, when the entrepreneurs had to connect there, you'd have to fill out your reports through this digital platform, so that they'd be relieved of any other obligations they have. But instead, it's still running duplicately. EET doesn't simplify the filing of tax returns in any way, EET is parallel to the inspection report, the system doesn't even think about users. They're not trying to add some positive motivation to why people would want to volunteer. For me, a good EET would be what entrepreneurs want to enter on their own because it is bureaucratically beneficial for them. Because they know that if they join the electronic system, they'll have so much administration for them in relation to the state that they won't need any more. And that it simplifies their lives. So the EET should be voluntary for me. Just like yesterday, we were talking about the prescription registry and the drug records people are taking. Again, the system, and I think that's the general rule, is to be voluntary, and people are to be convinced that they should enter it because it pays off. You guys totally resigned to this. Instead, you go the way of repression, and if people don't want it, you force it on them. If the Constitutional Court cancels it, you'll expand it again. That's why the pirát are against the third and fourth waves of the EET, why I am also against the EET as a whole. [[13.00 hours]] What's very sad is that I had a very long speech at first reading about it, is that for this leaky flagship, Andrej Babiš has sacrificed some much more important systemic changes in this country. Here, just a huge amount of energy in this House is being used to enforce this measure, against which logically there is great opposition. All opposition parties are against the EET, because this is a measure that will adversely affect the lives of several hundred thousand people. It's just about a few hundred thousand people in person, and we're trying to fight for these people here because we think that the bureaucracy that you're throwing at them, and it's not just EET, it's just disproportionate. And the only way we can respond to that is when the factual arguments unfortunately fall under the committee's table and the law doesn't make any adjustments under factual arguments, so all we have left is to try to convince you here in plenary with their arguments. Andrej Babiš did not really enforce many others because of this one law, which might also be a great political battle, but which would have a much greater impact on the economy of this country, for example, on the revenue of the state budget, which he still clings to. We have a capital drain from the Czech Republic of 400 billion. crowns a year. 400 billion. Each year the koruna flees from our economy abroad. That's really the biggest economic problem we have today. I would expect the government to look for a way to reduce this problem at least with a view to the future. And that will also be the thing where the Odea will certainly get into conflict in a number of areas, there will be an optimal solution to tax banks without affecting users, how to enable Czech banks to grow up in Czech hands, and that sector tax has not suffocated them and it does not favour foreign-owned ones. And it is a huge economic problem that is really preventing us from catching up with Western Europe. Instead, you focus your political energy on the EET, which will hit the smallest, and in terms of some overall picture of the economy, it has a completely marginal impact. Even if it's the 10 billion that I think you're making up, it's totally marginal money compared to the 400 billion that are running out, compared to what's going on over transfer prices, where foreign-owned companies are making their expenses and sending them abroad, and they're sending profits abroad without any taxation. Those are the things the government's supposed to focus on. Instead, EET is constantly pushing here and pushing completely absurdly into the third and fourth wave, which is simply meaningless. The fact that someone has an EET checkout doesn't affect whether they issue a receipt or not. The moment it's a one-on-one transaction, it just doesn't have any effect. Those two things aren't connected. The only people who make money on this bill are EET accountants and EET cashiers. These are the interest groups for which this is advantageous. The second interest group is the big lobby that wants the little ones not to compete with them. So these are the two big lobbies that push it, and then there's this whole marketing picture of Andrej Babiš who wants to be seen as the guy who collects the taxes. And the fact that EET isn't the way to better tax collection doesn't matter to him. Unfortunately, he convinced the public. I'm trying to convince the public that the numbers don't match, but unfortunately, the measure is being enforced by the government just because it's a marketing advantage, and it doesn't even solve whether it's a functioning regulation. It's the very argument about balancing the environment at a time when we have different types of business here. Andrej Babiš said how he didn't know how many types of business he had in the Czech Republic, he introduced a completely absurd EET for e-shops that still have all the payments electronically. Luckily, the Constitutional Court canceled and saved our e-shop sector. Similarly, the absurd EET for credit card payments, which, fortunately, was abolished by the Constitutional Court. There are a lot of types of business here and say that if we introduce the same area regulation for all different types of business, we somehow level the environment - it's nonsense. I mean, a plumber doesn't compete with a pub, a room painter doesn't compete with a hostel, a doctor, hopefully he doesn't compete with anyone, he tries to heal people, there's an EET completely absurd, there just cancels some of the services that people pay in cash for. And to say that for a doctor, the same regulation as for a restaurant is absurd. You keep saying that you need to straighten the environment, so come support my proposal, which says: OK, we will compare the conditions for booths and restaurants, but do not introduce the same regulations for plumbers as for pubs, it is stupid. And one more comment. The EET also brings huge costs. My colleague Munzar spoke of costs for the private sector. The government prefers not to quantify them, because it might work out that it costs more than it is supposed to pay. But what is easy to quantify is the cost to the state. It's 300 miles today. Kroner a year, about to raise to nearly 400 miles. Every year, through these ridiculous receipts, they're supposed to be worth 75 miles. he will pay from his own to print receipts, which he will give to entrepreneurs. It's just ridiculous! And these 400 miles. You could use it a lot better. Those EET-controlled officials could do more useful things, maybe catch the people who do tax evasion. Instead, checks are made, then someone gives a receipt a minute late, or he has a bad date at the cashier, colleague Munzar here said very sad examples of completely absurd fines, and instead of dealing with whether someone is cheating or cheating, it's being dealt with whether they follow the bureaucratic duty that someone else has imposed on him, and he didn't even think about whether it makes sense or doesn't make sense, and how it turns out especially for the smallest ones. Well, that's the cost on the side of the state. I have already talked about the absurdities of the third and fourth waves that between the first and second waves we have now, it means accommodation services, catering services, retail, and craftsmen, tradesmen, free professions, doctors is just a huge difference in how business works. The difference is that transactions in shops and restaurants take place publicly. By making these transactions publicly, it is possible to control them without any involvement in the transaction, whether the company actually issues or does not issue receipts. While those transactions that typically take place between two people in private without the presence of others, nothing like that is possible. Even government MPs are already admitting that the tax administration is probably not going to do room-painting checks. I think a businessman would have to be completely crazy to not know that it's a control, not a contract. Neither will anyone give control maintenance to the toilet to see if the plumber issues receipts. The possibility of control is incomparably worse in the third and fourth waves, which is why the Constitutional Court annulled it and preserved the first and second. Because while the first and second waves, which I personally disagree with, but I recognize that it is somehow enforceable, the law can be enforced in some way, so the third and fourth waves are simply not enforceable. And again, I have to repeat, it's just made by the cashiers. [[13.10 hours]] But you can't force people to pay their bills by forcing them to pay their bills. That's the basic problem. That's why we've been trying to convince you so long in this House not to do this, because we know that you're only doing this so that Andrej Babiš can brag in the media that he passed an important law for better tax collection, even though he knows now that it won't bring better tax collection. And the last part of my speech before I get to the concrete amendments. The offline regime, the special regime, the paper regime, the return of the stamp time, could have been a way to find a compromise that would at least have led the opposition not to war with this law. If you had introduced an alternative to the EET, which technically makes some basic sense, you probably wouldn't have convinced us to vote for it, but maybe you would have convinced me not to try to talk you out of it so intensely, because the government has the right to carry out its program. We're performing here because we think the impact on hundreds of thousands of people is so excessive that it deserves a thorough debate. And the offline mode is unfortunately set up, where I have to thank my colleagues from ČSSD, they pushed for a reasonable criterion for entering offline mode: 600,000 CZK of cash payments. It was Mr Onderka's proposal, who said it at first reading, that it was his condition to vote in favour at third reading. Madam Secretary tells me that the ANO movement is responsible for this. Unfortunately, the YES movement that wrote the bill in the government didn't write it. So that's why I thank Mr. Onderk. Yes, thank you, Mr. Juříček, who has co-submitted it with him. So those 600,000 cash payments, I admit, there's a limit that makes some sense. Unfortunately, that's the only positive part of the paper regime. At the same time, the paper regime has several fundamental errors, which very significantly limit its use in practice. And I am also afraid of what has been said on the committees that this is the intention, because the government does not really want to simplify life for the smallest, but it wants to force them to enter the EET despite the inapplicability of the paper regime, but at the same time to say that they have made an exception for the smallest. What are these absurd bureaucratic obstacles that prevent the offline regime from being applicable? First of all, the will of an official on whether an entrepreneur is allowed to enter that special regime. That in itself I consider to be the rule that is at the edge of the Constitution. That instead of meeting any conditions and automatically entering offline mode, there is still the will of an official who considers it. The favour is that the estimated amount of cash income for the next period is assessed. So when the clerk says: but plumbers in Prague earn more than 600,000 in cash payments, we will not give you permission for a special regime because the assumption is not fulfilled. I just don't agree with that. I think the rule is to be clear: you meet the conditions, you are entitled to a special EET mode. Instead, there's the will of the clerk preserved there. I hope that the tax administration will come to this reasonably. So I find it extremely unreasonable that there is a 30-day deadline. So if someone wants to start a business right now and doesn't want to deal with EET, and when they're starting a business, they don't have any income, so instead of getting started right now, they have to wait 30 days. That seems completely absurd to me. The moment people who have left a job are typically starting to do business because they've gotten tired of it, and now they've been given a lot of... even very emotionally, because they had a fight with the boss and they said they had enough, so now creating a 30-day barrier before they could start, it seems very stupid to me. The second problem with offline mode is that receipts are issued only by the office. First of all, it costs 75 million a year according to a tender that is already underway, even though the law is not yet passed, so the state will pay for it. But what's worse, the receipts can't be pre-filled, so people will be completely absurd in 2023, or when it comes into force, they'll be completely absurdly filling out paper receipts they picked up at the office with a pen. I mean, it's all crazy. Issue a model receipt that everyone can print themselves with all the data to be found on the receipt. Don't make people quite absurdly get stamps to print on those forms that they get from the Ministry of Finance, virtually. From the tax authorities, printing their data with these stamps. That's nonsense. So that's the second thing. These receipts can only be issued by the Office, which leads to the fact that they cannot be prefilled and therefore it is not possible to fill out all the data you need, so that everyone spends x minutes to hours a day by filling out the receipts. The last, the biggest nonsense for me, is the parameters of the statement that the businessman will have to file every three months. The statement, as the current officials of the Ministry of Finance want it, is to be structured after days. Careful - that's not in the law at all. And the layman who reads the law won't even realize it. People enter this special regime with the fact that once every three months they send a summary of their income to the IRS, and then they find that they have to do the summation every day, which is so annoying that eventually EET prefers to get it, even though it's useless to them. So here people who want to be in a special regime mainly because they have a vast majority of payments online, but from time to time they want to allow someone to pay them in cash, so instead of once every three months counting how much they made on cash payments and sending it to the IRS, you're forcing them to create a table that will be structured so that for every day of their business the entrepreneur has to write a aggregate amount of his sales in that table for that particular day. So the people who worked today were taking the receipts and putting the receipts in a shoebox, and once a year, when they filed their tax returns, so they counted them, reported the amount of their sales, and they had settled them -- these are typically businessmen who work on spending flats today, and that's how they filed tax returns so far, they just collected the receipts a year, added them up and filed tax returns -- so you're forcing these people to take their bills out of that shoebox once every three months, sorted them out after days, counted daily sales, put them in a spreadsheet, printed them out, and recommendedly sent them to the IRS, so they don't do anything with them. I mean, who's gonna take these statements in paper form and deal with them? It's crazy! [[13.20 hours]] So in this way, you made it impossible for a special EET mode to function really and be usable for businessmen. So many are my basic general reservations about EET. And now I would like to comment on the amendments that I consider most important. Of course, I would ask all of you to support the motion for rejection submitted by the pirát, and other opposition parties have joined them, because that would save us the 800 votes, while rejecting this very bad bill. That's where I'd like to ask you to support the motion to dismiss. Furthermore, the key positive change, which, as I said, I admit to my colleague Onderk and colleague Juříček, is an increase in the limit of cash payments to CZK 600,000. Unfortunately, it has not been implemented by other positive changes. And one of the changes presented by Onderka and his colleague Juříček, who was cut off by the government coalition, is a proposal to allow VAT payers to use the special regime. So I have adopted this press, thank you very much to my colleagues for preparing this proposal, and I have presented it myself, because I think it is very appropriate. This is an amendment so that VAT payers can also use the special regime. The reason is simple. There are a number of VAT payers that have large sales to large customers, which, of course, bill electronically, and at the same time have an establishment where an individual can go, buy a bag of potatoes, a meter of coal, rock stones for his garden, something similar. And these are completely marginal sales from the total turnover of these companies, but because of these revenues, they often do not pay to purchase EETs and to complete the excavation of their accounting systems. So what they're gonna do is cancel these sales. So you will make the availability of VAT payers worse. Mr. Juříček realized it, that's why he submitted it. Unfortunately, for my very incomprehensible reason, your coalition rejected this sensible proposal by YES and ČSSD members on the committee, and I have tabled it again, and I ask you to reconsider. After all, it is perfectly logical that companies that have large turnovers and cash sales do not really care about them do not have to be in the EET, just as we do not want it for businessmen who have cash sales up to 600,000 crowns. This is one very important amendment. Next thing I know, I'd like to stop by to draft a procedure for the sale of fish. It is a consensus in this House that mandatory EET for sale of Christmas carp is a mistake. The entire budget committee agreed on that. [[Messenger. - There will be turkeys!]] Mr Hájek here, if I have heard correctly, says it will lead to the Americanization of the Czech Republic, because -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u17	Ambassador, I must interrupt you and invite you and the House to turn to each other through me and not shout, or, if you need to talk to each other, through the microphone. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u18	I'm sorry, I'll do better, Mr President. I think there is no need to burden this press with a dispute over the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, I don't think the exclusion of Christmas carp or their non-exorcism would lead to the americanization of Czech society and Christmas turkeys. Anyway, there's a consensus that it's reasonable to remove the Christmas carp from the mandatory EET. If this is a consensus, it seems perfectly logical for us to vote first on the complete exemption from the EET for Christmas carp, then for the possibility of EET paper for Christmas carp. Unfortunately, the Committee on Budgets proposed the opposite procedure in its procedure, even though both proposals have a recommendation opinion. So here I would very much like to turn to all my colleagues to support the change in the procedure that I propose when the procedure is being discussed, so that the proposals will actually be voted from the mildest to the strictest to the most strict, so that the House will be given the opportunity to choose the first option that has the majority. So much for carp, which is a very discussed topic. In this context, I have also tabled the holiday package of amendments to the EET to rule out bacon, Easter eggs, mistletoe. So I've been warned that mistletoe is not covered by the EET. This is not the case because mistletoe can be gilded, and then it is no longer an agricultural or other crop harvested in the forest, however the product and products are covered by the EET. So that's why mistletoe needs to be removed. I also proposed the removal of Christmas trees because I think there is a very similar situation with the carp, because it is again a sector where sales take place within a short period of the year. In this period, the vast majority of sales will take place. Again, it is quite easy to control how many of these kindergartens have trees. That's where the clerk comes in, looks at the preschool in October. They'll find out how many trees there are. He'll look at the preschool in December. They'll find out how many trees, how many trees are down. And then he looks at the sales of the place. And there's no need for people in the frosts who sell Christmas trees to have to have some EET cashiers or write paper receipts. So for this reason, I proposed this holiday product exemption package, which is only sold for a short period of the year. For the same reason, I proposed to remove the peanut from the EET, which is also sold only in a short period of the year. For me, the fundamental proposals I make are in relation to the special EET regime, and that is the proposal to change the structure of the mandatory statement. Indeed, counting revenue after days is an extreme case of excessive bureaucracy and let's say official blindness on this matter. I generally appreciate the officials, but I think this is a case of professional blindness, where the argument is, already entrepreneurs have an obligation to record their sales continuously, but really people just put those documents in the box. And I don't think that's a problem at all. On the contrary, I think that we should appreciate the people who issue the documents properly, and we should not burden them with this bureaucracy. In fact, paradoxically, this whole measure is headed towards a decline in sales, because it will be easier for people not to admit those sales than to mess with this bureaucracy. So here, the state is threatening to lose money. So I suggest that the revenues be counted after months. So the three-month summary is going to have three lines instead of 90 lines. That seems like a compromise that makes sense, even though I'm skeptical of the measure as a whole. I also proposed to abolish the favor for officials to decide whether or not to support the special EET regime. My colleague, Kovářová and I, together, made a proposal for people to print the receipts themselves, so that the Ministry of Finance would issue a form indicating what the receipt should look like, and then so that people could print them themselves, so that they could put their tax identification number on it. The moment they do it voluntarily, they have an alternative to pick it up at the office, I think it's in accordance with our Constitution, and let's give them this opportunity, let everyone decide whether it's more efficient for him to pick up the receipts and fill them out manually or print them out himself. I believe that this would be a simplification especially for entrepreneurs who have very low amounts of cash sales. I made this proposal together with my colleague Kovářová from the STAN movement. [[13.30 hours]] I also proposed, of course, the abolition of the entire third and fourth wave. I put in a small compromise so that the first and second waves would spread to all the food services, so that the pubs wouldn't come to us, that the pub was selling them a booth on better terms. So here I supported the settlement of the business environment, I complied with the arguments of my colleague Feranc, Madam Secretary, and I proposed a compromise, but at the same time I proposed to cancel the third, fourth wave as a whole. Of course, we will support a number of proposals by colleagues from the opposition, reducing fines, improving the situation for doctors, raising the VAT limit proposed by Mr Jurečka, a number of other things. But I would point out that we have proposed three amendments that allow the special regime to function really, and I ask you to actually consider this change. And quite finally. A number of amendments are tabled. There are over 800 of them. I ask you very much, colleagues, to allow you to vote on this comprehensive amendment from the ODS workshop gradually, in order to actually assess whether the House's restaurants are excluded from the EET in order to make it necessary that space research falls under the EET. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u19	Thank you, too. Before I invite another speaker, I'll introduce you to the apologies that have run out so far. The Minister of Transport Kremlík apologized to us from 12.00 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský apologizes from 13.30 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons. Mr Votava apologizes from 13.15 pm to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Výborný apologies from 13:00 to the end of the negotiations for reasons of work. I would therefore now like to call on Mr Jurečka as an additional party to the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u20	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, really briefly. I just want to add here in the legislative technical regulation that I have been brought to the attention of the House by legislation, that in my amendment, which I have given to the aforementioned biofoods, number 1473, I lacked one sentence, which I mentioned in the reference, when I wrote in the amendment that in Annex 3a the sentences which are the content of the amendment are inserted after the sentence, and the sentence behind which they are inserted was not mentioned there, so I will allow myself to bring it here in order for it to be in order, i.e.: in Annex 3a, quotation marks below, advertising is meant for the purposes of including goods into the relevant tax rate under Law No. 40/1995 Coll., on Advertising Regulation and on Amendment and Supplement to Act No. 468/1991 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended, dot, quotation marks above, add new sentences which are already in my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u21	Thank you. I have seen that the rapporteur has taken note of this, or maybe pass on the technical notes. Before I ask another speaker, I have a note here. Mr Holík apologizes from 13.45 to 14.00 for traffic reasons. [[General cheer.]] And now I've been given priority rights from the post of President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u22	Thank you for the floor. That's a nice coincidence. First the Minister of Transport apologizes and then the Member for transport reasons. I don't know if it's connected. But before I get to the EET, Mr Vice-President, you do this quite often, the Rules of Procedure say that we address it through. When I speak of someone, for example, when I say that Mr. Managing Officer Pikal, I do not have to do so through you, if we understand each other. That's it. [[- Understood.]] Now let's go to the EET. I'm afraid I'm running out of time. [[Laughs in the hall.]] That's right, we're done in 26 minutes, so really little. And I have a few general notes first. If I were to justify all the amendments, I would end up sometime in August, but at least the general remarks. We have repeatedly talked here, many of us, the opposition, sometimes the Minister, about the Constitutional Court's finding, which canceled the third and fourth waves. And how did the Treasury and the government proceed to this? I'd say it's kind of a cheesy attitude. Because if you read the dissenting statement, aside from the fact that my favorite series was Sure, Minister, and then Sure, Prime Minister - by the way, I think it's a popular series and Andrej Babiš, and according to it he chooses ministers, so their basic sentence will be Sure, Prime Minister - the main message was that the state did not check well enough whether the new regulation is necessary. This is the main message of the dissenting position of a third of the constitutional judges. They used a nice comparison with the red button from this popular series. And how did the Ministry of Finance and the Government as a whole proceed to this? They didn't actually judge it again. They formally rewritten something there, but they are de facto insisting on their own, apart from what the Constitutional Court forbade them, like the illogical e-shops, credit cards. That's exactly what we said here years ago, and many of you, nice government MPs, laughed at us and said: such crap that you're stalling here. Until the Constitutional Court broke it off. Why were the Ministry of Finance and Government not able or willing to assess whether this regulation is necessary? Because they are unable to demonstrate the benefits of EET. A fellow Member, Mr Ferjenčík, spoke here about the analysis - it is very bold to call it an analysis - but from the data - it follows that VAT grew faster in fields where EET is not, than in the fields where EET was introduced. [[Nesroz.]] In doing so, it is published as the success of the EET. At the same time, we asked where in those fields, when EET is, that it is growing thanks to EET, where the benefit of the inspection report is, so we learned that it is in these fields that the control report brings nothing at all. And that's the whole analysis. So I understand that the government and the Ministry of Finance are unable to re-evaluate whether the regulation is necessary at all, that they are not able to prove that any extra money has been raised. Not to mention the costs. Positive first. I would like to thank the legislation for preparing a set of legislative technical corrections to the amendments, including some of the ones that I have tabled, so thank you. I'm sure it's all of them. You'll all support it so that it's legislatively okay. If we go back to the one - today I would say already famous - the SAO report, or one report later, the Supreme Audit Office came to the conclusion that the selection of an IT system supplier for the EET was illegal. A scandalous sentence in itself. But compared to the fact that the government is unable to secure the fundamental functions of the state, I agree that this is one or two levels below, and we are debating the first report and not the other. We're still talking here - we're not, but government MPs, government officials - about settling the business environment. And I repeatedly say that the most crooked business environment is subsidies. But the government doesn't do anything about it, it invents new grant titles, new market inequalities, new injustices. What is the Czech Government fighting for when a new financial period is being negotiated in the European Union? For subsidies for the biggest. Coincidentally in agriculture. And I consider that to be a coincidence, but he fights for the greatest, the greatest injustice. This is the leitmotiv of our position of the Czech Republic in Brussels when negotiating the next financial period. Some - I would say furious - EET supporters even received a reward in the form of a ministerial chair. I'd expect the new Minister Havlíček to be here today to defend the EET from tearing up the body. And he probably doesn't have to, he's already in that government. [[13.40 hours]] EET is to bring, or should bring, a significant increase in the revenue of the state budget. And since it didn't, the government is wondering what new taxes it would have invented to improve its management. So we're talking about a digital tax when the secretary first said it would be three to five percent. Finally, the proposal is seven percent. Then there's talk of sector tax. Here's a sentence -- there are some other social democracy MPs, I thought they were nobody, but they are. So it's for social democracy colleagues. For a sector tax, what is allowed by God is not allowed by an asshole. Because the Treasury is proposing a sector tax for insurance companies. It may have repainted it, and it's called taxing the technical reserves of insurance companies. Andrej Babiš, with his hat instead of sector tax, says a voluntary fund to which the banks will basically contribute. So it's the same thing, it's just a different name. But someone can design it and someone can't design it. That is the problem of the Social Democrats. We're against those and those other sector taxes. The procedure. Here's just a note. Then I'll only have one change. I have it processed in writing, so I will then submit it to the rapporteur, because I think that, particularly in this case, we should propose changes to the procedure in writing, if possible, so that there is no mistake. I don't mind dealing politically with government MPs, with ministers, with the Minister. What really bothers me, Madam Secretary, is that the Treasury officials are writing in their opinion on the amendment, for example, to me that it is obstructive behavior. That is the sentence that I believe government MPs and ministers can use, but not the Ministry of Finance officials. They have nothing to judge whether my amendments are obstructive or not. And look, it's in official material. I think at least all the members of the Committee on Budgets have this at their disposal, perhaps all the Members. In doing so, they use sentences of type, insufficiently justifying their amendments. so I compared it to how the Ministry of Finance justified its negative position on the set of my amendments. No Ctrl Ins, Shift Ins. Or Control C, Control V. Based on what you're using. Just the same paragraphs are used literally for various amendments. But it's not obstructive in the understanding of the Ministry of Finance's world. That's all competent. And if the opposition Member dares to make a set of amendments, he is designated as someone who is obstructing. I was very clear when I tabled those amendments and imagined that this was not an obstruction. It's about realizing - first of all - absurd examples. And I thank Mr Munzar that he has drawn attention to many of them if you had forgotten from the second reading, as well as to activities where there may be no control activity. In fact, the Financial Administration has already admitted that, as Mr Ferjenčík and I have repeatedly asked how it will be with the emancipation of control, that they will probably not be able to control it. The logical question is: the state wants to introduce it, it wants to sanction it, and at the same time admits that it is not able to control it. Answer the question yourself, what's the point? Yes, we have tabled amendments to each activity according to the NACE code list, and we believe that at least some of the most absurd or least enforceable ones, or those for which it is quite clear that control will not be possible, will fall out of it. But since we didn't know which you, as government MPs, would consider absurd, uncontrollable or uncontrollable, or little enforceable, we were all handed over just to make sure we didn't miss anything. When we were talking about the cost on the state side of the EET, Mr Ferjenčík mentioned the cost of IT systems. I wonder how much the PR costs were. It's called an information campaign. The press, the radio, the receipt. So I wonder, Madam Secretary, in every year's launch of the EET, how much the cost of the EET was and who was the beneficiary of the money. I don't need to know about the receipt, we know the system supplier, that's where it's clear. But with the commercials ordered, whether in print, on the radio, or on television, who was the recipient of this money and from which chapter of the state budget it was paid for. There. And now for the procedure. I have prepared some 50 activities from the 775 according to NACE code numbers, for which I would like us to vote on them as points 4 to 50, to 50. Then I left the procedure proposal the same, and then the other amendments. This means, in the procedure that I propose, the first vote would be on the legislative technical adaptations set out in the Annex to the Parliamentary Press 205/7. These are the legislative technical amendments that have been approved by the Committee on Budgets. Secondly, there would be a vote on further legislative technical adjustments if they were presented at third reading. I have noted that at least Mr Jurečka presented legislative technical information. At first, the rejection was the first, of course, rapporteur. I'll pass it on to you in writing. You don't have to like this: leg-tech, second leg-tech, then motion for rejection. [[unintelligible.]] And now we would vote on the most absurd or little enforceable or controlled items. And it's these. Some have already been mentioned by my colleague, Mr Munzar. Breeding of camels and camels, hunting and hunting of wild animals and related activities, logging, production of wine from grapes, finishing of textiles, manufacture of jewellery and related products, plastering, joinery work, walling and laying of floor coverings, glassmaking, painting, painting work, glassmaking work, painting and painting work, roofing work, assembly and dismantling of scaffolding and formwork, removal services, screening of films and about twenty others. It's in writing, I won't read it all. Nor will I read the individual amendments relating to the activities of the NACE code list. But I would like to mention some of the amendments tabled by either me or my fellow Members from our parliamentary club. Firstly, the abolition of the law as a whole. I think it's logical and it actually shows the continuity of our views on the EET. Second, removing the insubordinates from VAT. We're having a constant debate about this. Failed so far. However, for VAT income burden EET VAT payer simply doesn't make any sense. We also have a motion to cancel the receipt. We don't think it's normal if I trust public news that there are citizens who send thousands and thousands of receipts every month. I don't know if anyone would ever comment on this as an addiction, but I find it odd at the very least. I'm saying, I'm only coming out of public sources, and it's probably information published by the Ministry of Finance. I think you'll find it on the Treasury website. You know, the celebratory ones. Even one person sent 3,646 receipts. You see what interest there is between... Ask yourself if any of you make 2,000 or 2,500 cash purchases a month. It doesn't exactly work out for me. So the receipt as a whole doesn't make any sense. We have little debate about the second part of the law, namely value added tax. Mr. Ferjenčík spoke of this. I think the outcome of this bill is a reflection of Andrej Babiš's election campaign. Remember, he got a haircut, a photo shoot. He promised the hairdressers that the VAT would be reduced. He's making a promise. That's what I'm saying. He bought a flower. I don't know about voters, I.D.s or my coworkers. He promised lower VAT on cut flowers. Too škoda he didn't buy cupcakes. Even there could be lower VAT. Too škoda he didn't use any other services that... This may be in the next campaign and will be a lower rate of VAT. How can we talk here about settling the business environment? The logical solution is to have two VAT rates. And we can argue whether it's fifteen or ten. We're up for ten. And let's remember when the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš here introduced the third VAT rate. At the time, he said he didn't really want to do it, that it was a socialist invention, but that there would be only the three items that were designed at the time. I'm sure there's ten of those items today. Now I don't know how many are designed here. So the list is constantly growing, and it's perfectly logical. If we have entrepreneurs who are in business and are VAT payers and are using a lower VAT rate, and others who use a second, reduced rate, that is, the lower one, then everyone who has fifteen wants ten. I think that's perfectly logical. Who wouldn't want that? There is no fair answer to that, and there is no fair solution. And here you see injustice, the inequality of the business environment live. And that's just not what the government's dealing with. [[13.50 hours]] So I wish those entrepreneurs who have proposed reduced VAT, if they had voted on it separately, we would have supported it, it is a matter that I appreciate on this bill, but there is not enough of them. I think it would be much better to go back to two rates, leave 10 percent, it would just be systemic and more advantageous, and it would at least be some compensation for the others we want to burden EET in the third and fourth waves. But to make sure it doesn't fit, so I don't get blamed for being just critical, it's a thing that deserves support. Also, our colleagues in the Senate pushed it, brought it back here in the tax package, but you so quietly rejected it so that you could approve it six months or a year later and praise yourself and say: nice businessmen, look, you have a lower VAT rate. That's right, you're gonna tell me, it's a true sentence, but it should be a comma, but thanks to us, you have it later months before you could have it, because the Senate thought of you, the Senate suggested it in the tax package, but we rejected it for political reasons, for political reasons. Because if the government were against it, I understand that if she had any expert arguments, e.g. I don't want to increase the unevenness of the business environment and the differences. But the government is up for it, but only in the moment she finds it appropriate, and the secretary called it, I think it's the cherry on the cake, if I remember the debate in the second. [[reading]] What kind of cherry on the cake? Either the taxes are high or they're not. If we think they are, they're supposed to be reduced, and it's not a cherry on the cake, but it's a clear and proper measure. When you look at the justification, it is very good not only to read the file containing all the amendments with the justification of the Members, but it is also very good to read the refusals of the ministries. Sometimes when it is - and it's like the government's position on some bill. If he's a government MP, even though the text is completely negative, there's a neutral position. Here very often, very hard to find arguments to reject. I would still understand it, if it were the Minister's opinion, who would say: in these cases I am opposed, officials, you do not have to look for justification in any way, the government has decided that there will be no exceptions. This seems right, logical, and understandable to the opposition. To force those officials to write about why the exception will or will not be, I find it unnecessary to waste time on both the officials and us who are trying to read it honestly. If I were to sum up our club's position, it's the same all the time we're discussing the EET. She's useless, she doesn't bring money. Unlike the first hearing in the previous coalition period, there is evidence for this, virtually. The government has no evidence that any money has been added to the budget. It's a bureaucratic obstacle, it's true. In the past few days, we've seen how many small farms in the countryside have died out. Then it was called, but overall we have more stores in Prague. Well, that's possible, but we've pointed out the negative effects, especially in small villages and rural areas, where every service that goes down is especially for those who aren't entirely mobile, they don't have their own car, they don't have quality public transport, they have a very difficult service to provide, they get it elsewhere. I have the option in writing for the rapporteur. I don't think it's against anything that he's actually keeping, he's just putting the motion to dismiss the most absurd cases by the NACE code list.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u23	Thank you. I have two factual points before I give the floor to other speakers in the debate. He is Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Bláha. Okay, I'm begging you to remain calm in the hall and Mr. Ferjenčík for two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to the Minister who claims on news server Novinky.cz that due to us the VAT reduction is postponed to aqueous and coiled. I have to fight this very hard here because it's not true. The reduction in VAT to water and sewerage was postponed because you didn't vote for him a few months ago when the Senate suggested it, which implemented all those tax changes that you're putting into print 205, to print 206. So you could cut the VAT on the water and the gutter for months back. Don't make it up today! Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u25	Thank you, I'm stating a waste of time. Now, with Mr Bláha's factual remark, then President Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u26	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I am listening to a number of comments, and I just want to remind you of one crucial thing. As colleagues here constantly say, they want to help entrepreneurs, so all associations in the Czech Republic support EET. All businessmen in the service are waiting for a reduction in VAT. The VAT that the ODS here is talking about - so who introduced that when I go to the candy store to buy an Indian and take it home, it costs me 5% VAT, and when I eat it on the spot, I pay 21 percent VAT or at that time 19 percent VAT? In whose government was it that helped entrepreneurs to pay 19 percent for the added services? So what I'd like to say is that those who are preventing the further development of the business have been talking for two hours. And all entrepreneurs who do business and really want to do business honestly know that. And if you don't realize that the greatest salvation for every entrepreneur is that when he does business honestly and next to him a colleague dishonestly, there's a 50 per cent difference in employees' salary, VAT and taxes. That's 50 percent, the difference between honest and dishonest. So think about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u27	Thank you for the time being and for the next, Mr Stanjura, Mr Svoboda and Mr Ferjenčík, is in fact a comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u28	Then I will no longer respond to Mr Bláha, because I could say who has reduced tax rates, but I will not. I'd just like to make a preliminary suggestion, because we have the last day of the meeting, so I'd like to propose that all the unnegotiated points of this 28th meeting be eliminated. We are on a variable week, on Friday, on the last day of the meeting, the meeting should end in about 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u29	Thank you, I have the proposal here, I wanted to do it after we've exhausted the factual remarks and we've concluded the point, if that's okay. Okay. So please now, Mr Liberty, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u30	Nice good noon, my point is to Mr. Bláh, whom I always like to listen to. Entrepreneurs are not only carpenters, bakers, locksmiths, but also doctors. And businessmen don't agree with EET. So you can have at least one example of a businessman who doesn't agree with EET, so you can have it all. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-10-ps2017-028-08-004-147.u31	Thank you. Next, Mr Benda is registered with a factual remark. Or we can just let the vote go. Okay. In that case, there was a proposal to remove unnegotiated items approved by the 28th session of the Chamber of Deputies, so if no one has anything against it, we will deal with this procedural proposal. There's an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please log in with your cards again. When the number of entries is settled, we will vote on the elimination of the remaining points... Looks like our numbers are stable. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 167 117 Members and Members were enrolled, for 97, against 14. The motion was accepted. This is how we discussed the programme set up by the 28th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, because all the points are eliminated, and this is the end of the meeting. I'll see you on schedule. The next meeting has not yet been announced. Have a nice weekend.
