ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u1	36. Mr Radek Vondráček's proposal to issue a law amending Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 347/ - first reading We have the Government's position at our disposal as the House Press 347/1. I ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček to give us the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, honourable Members, I admit that in the context of the debate on pensions, I partly forgot what I was going to say here. But it doesn't matter at all, because I would really like the discussion about this press to be a little different from other proposals, because it concerns all of us. The government, too, stated in its neutral opinion that it fully respects the autonomy of the legislature and that the way we adjust our rules is up to us. I have served the press as a Member, but it is the result of the meeting of the Working Group, in which representatives of all the political parties who are in the present Chamber of Deputies were represented. The group met three times, we met on 1 February, 1 March and 26 April 2018. In addition, there have been several questions and approval within the framework of e-mail correspondence. We in that group agreed that it is not worth meeting all the time, that three meetings would be sufficient to form some basis of compromise. And in that working group, we worked in a way that each of those nine clubs had the right to veto. If we haven't found an absolute consensus on a question, we haven't continued on that matter, and we haven't addressed the subject. And often those debates were interesting, we were dealing with, like, a greater attraction by interpelling, we were dealing with the question of how we needed to make the debate more effective and limit the number of factual remarks. Or maybe there was a proposal that priority rights would not be exercised in the debate, except outside the debate. There were more proposals, but when someone argued that they did not want to move in this direction, we did not develop the subject further. [[11.30 hours]] The result is a compromise neutral amendment rather technical. The debate mainly focused on how to make our negotiations more effective, how to make the work of the Chamber of Deputies more effective, and how to make work easier sometimes. The bill contains some more substantial changes to the procedural rules. The most fundamental thing on which we agreed is the extension of the time for discussing third readings on Wednesday until 19.00, which would greatly benefit from some fluency in handling third readings in the Chamber of Deputies. Rationalise the adjustment of procedural objections - I call it minority veto, it concerns, for example, the inclusion of a new point on the agenda at a certain time, or if we extend third reading to other days. We responded to the fact that there are nine political clubs, often with a small number of members, and that the veto, the so-called veto on signatures and the so-called veto on the number of clubs, would be balanced, so I think we have reached some conclusion without any major problems and some paragrafo version. Then there was the proposal, it was the proposal of a representative of the pirate party, that we put into the Rules of Procedure the possibility of a parliamentary provision of the Houses of the Commission. Then there was a wider consensus that there were a number of international treaties, which are more of an economic nature. Example: Double taxation agreements. For them, we agreed that there is no reason why we would not, by analogy, modify the procedure that we have in Section 90, that we would be able to approve some less complicated international agreements already in the first reading. Then there is a great deal of reporting, when, of course, the reports are increasing and increasing the number of unnegotiated points that we are subsequently excluding. The Chamber of Deputies must, of course, deal with these legal reports, must take them into account, but they are often again reports of various funds, or where there is no greater problem with them being approved, and it is to some extent a formality. There we have come up with a solution that it would be possible for the committee concerned to discuss the matter, and when it does not show interest in plenary as a sovereign, and in particular it is again the protection of a minority who would be interested in discussing the matter in plenary and discussing it, so when such a proposal is not made that the fiction that committee discussion is as if the House itself had discussed it in plenary. It is the same principle that is already being applied on many issues in the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs, and these are often very important and important issues. Then there are other changes, let's say, really technical, because in our negotiations he has always been a representative of the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies and a representative of the Ministry of Justice and we have dealt with really technical matters. There's been mention of another draft, which is something I don't remember anyone applying in the time I've been here. For example, a change in the effectiveness of the proposal is allowed at third reading. While the possibility in Section 90 is, when we discuss under Section 90, we can propose a different effectiveness, so in the classic discussion for three readings this option is not and it happens that the discussion will extend to the extent that the effectiveness mentioned in the law is no longer up to date. Obsolete provisions on the Czech Consolidation Agency, which no longer exists, are being deleted. It specifies the right of Members to request information from the authorities of the local government, something that might interest you, because we do not have that in the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, the Senate and the senators already have this right clearly in the law, and we have agreed across the board that it is perfectly logical for the permissions of both chambers to be the same. It may be interesting that the enforcement of the disciplinary penalty of Members is being worked out, that there is a possibility that he will be fined, so he will be deducted from his salary. Since I've been here, this problem hasn't happened in the last parliamentary term. But why would we not take advantage of the opportunity to ask ourselves this question here and try to find a solution? I expect really extremely, I would say, a democratic debate over this proposal, so that each of the clubs can come up with their solution and then we can talk about this amendment as a means of further adjustments, because there were more incentives from different clubs, but when we disagreed, we continued, let's say, in a neutral position. A very big debate has been held, for example, about the intercession that ministers don't go, Members don't go, and it's uninteresting, some kind of attractive interpelling. However, we did not agree. Roughly there was agreement that it would be good to shorten individual intervals for answers and questions, we roughly agreed that it would be appropriate not to go back and forth all the time, for example, if the Interpelling Member sat and held an interview from the place and conducted a dialogue with the Minister that it would be a little bit more consistent with, for example, the British tradition, question time. I'm coming up with a proposal that doesn't concern this press, but we could actually try it out if we agreed, in gentlemen's terms, that there would be no oral intervention, that would be terminated, and that could be followed by a point called Questions on members of the government, for example. And on those questions, we'd try the new rules. It would be appropriate for questions to be asked a day or two earlier and the lottery would take place earlier, then it would be assessed which minister is the most concerned, and the request and proposal would be that the questions would take place in blocks, for example, asking questions to the Minister of Finance, then to the Minister of the Environment, depending on how many questions would be needed. And given the shorter times, there's a real chance that there's an answer to all of them. In addition, the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies would have some time reserve, and we could actually appeal to the various ministers that you have four interpelations on Thursday, so please come. They'd know ahead, they'd know the answer would have to be solid, and we'd be able to function like that. And we can try it dry. So it's just my proposal for this press. If there was an interest in such a solution, maybe one day we could try it by vacation. Otherwise, I say again, I look forward to all the comments in the debate, and that's it. We all wish our happiness so that we can adopt some amendment to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The rapporteur for first reading is Mr Marek Benda. I ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u4	Mr Vice-President, Mr President and petitioner, ladies and gentlemen, I will be quite kind in the intelligence report, and I will keep my reservations, if any, until later, on the situation of the general debate. However, it is unusual for a Member to submit an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, however President he is. It's just not normal and normal. I have already seen a few amendments to the Rules of Procedure over the years, and either these are things that are somehow across the agreed and agreed and are aimed at making it more effective for everyone, or not, which I must say is in fact this case, because I cannot say that the President of the House did not hear us, but it was certainly not that those who walked and were not all of them, but I understand that some smaller clubs might not be able to do it, on the working groups, agreed and co-signed this text. That is why it is only the President's proposal, because he has taken some points out of it that seem important to him to make the House more effective. [[11.40 hours]] You know well that I am one of the people who say that the House is not supposed to make itself more effective in any way, that every law we approve harms citizens in this country, the less we approve it, the better for the citizens of this country. So there's no reason to make the House more efficient. But at the same time, where, say, the opposition's helpfulness was, we can imagine that we will expand some things as a time for third reading, but then it must be balanced and balanced by some steps that, on the other hand, will make the opposition's work more effective. And there was no such deal. That's the kind of situation we're in. As usual, the government gave a neutral position, but I honestly say that I consider the government to be correct. The Government is not to make a very fundamental statement on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. It's not a matter of her competence. And even though the constitutional authority, of course, has to give its opinion, it is purely technical. I look forward to the debate that will be held on this. But I think that unfortunately, the work that has been done has been inadequate and that we will rather encounter a conflict to some extent. Moreover, of course, and you all know this, it is very dangerous, at the moment when the Rules of Procedure are already open, then almost anything can be loaded into it. It is therefore useful that such amendments to the Rules of Procedure be across the political spectrum to be in agreement - yes, we all agree with that. At the same time, we are de facto committed to not giving and supporting other amendments, because here we can get into a situation that, at the end of the second reading, dozens of proposals will appear to me that will limit the government, the opposition, someone else's, then relatively randomly something can pass through and can make the work of the Chamber of Deputies as a whole incredibly difficult. So I am very careful to go on such adventures with such an important standard as the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. So much for my news report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. Two Members are enrolled in the debate at the moment, but President Farský and Vice-President of the House of Pikal have previously been signed up with priority rights. President Farský has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I am now performing here on behalf of five MPs, following up on the scam that happened here yesterday. I perform on behalf of ODS Club, Pirates Club, KDU-ČSL Club, TOP 09 Club and STAN Club. And I would like to read here a letter addressed to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, which I will also forward to him after this reading. vážený Vondráček, the ODS, Pirates and KDU-ČSL MPs have requested an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. At this meeting, we wanted to discuss the latest worrying developments in our country concerning the government's budgetary and personnel problems, including the permanent conflict of interests of the Prime Minister and the inadequate management of the state described in the SAO's annual report. We have made a request for a summons in accordance with the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. The House has constitutional authority to control the government. It has several instruments to fulfil this obligation, one of the most important of which is the convening of an emergency meeting. It is already apparent from the name itself that it is an extraordinary instrument that responds to extraordinary circumstances. The call for such a meeting is a signal for society that something that requires special attention is taking place. Members shall represent the citizens. In order to fulfil their constitutional responsibilities and control the government, they must have appropriate conditions. The basic condition is the organisation of meetings of the House. As President of the Chamber of Deputies, you must be primarily interested in allowing the legislature to perform its duties. Your authority is to determine the date of an emergency meeting and when it is set, you are to be led by an attempt to enable it to be properly carried out, that is to say, not to prevent the presence of the Prime Minister and the members of the government. That is the only way to make an extraordinary meeting meaningful. Since you have set a deadline for an extraordinary meeting for a time when neither the Prime Minister nor the vast majority of the members of the government could attend it, you have not acted out of turn. You have acted only in the interests of your political entity and in a sharp conflict with the interests of the legislature in which you lead. You're involved in paralyzed operation. The Houses and you prevented the government from being controlled by the legislative powers. We consider this your personal failure, and we do not intend to go quietly. We call on you to apologize for thwarting the proper conduct of the extraordinary meeting, which you called for on 25 April 2019. We demand that you continue to act impartially in your capacity, not to lower the weight of the Chamber of Deputies, and that you pay particular attention to its interests, not to the interests of the YES 2011. Signed chairman of ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Mayors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vice-President Pikal and then President Vondráček are already registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u8	I have said this on behalf of five -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u9	I'm sorry I took your word for it. But you have your word. Of course, go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u10	- five MPs, because it's really a caller to heaven, what happened here yesterday, and it can't be, it can't be passed. About the bill that lies here - now behind the Mayors and Independents Club - just a few notes. It's not that it's a proposal that we agreed to in advance. It cannot be imagined that we would agree on our own to reduce the rights we have in the House. And for the particular reasons set out here in order for such a change to be made to the Rules of Procedure. Motion to extend the deadline for discussing the third reading. Really, there's nothing to discuss. On Wednesday, we did not have to devote a block for third reading because there were not enough third readings. And today, today, which is intended for third reading, we are discussing elections, first reading and other points. None of them are the third reading either. This is not a problem that needs to be addressed and to open the Rules of Procedure for this. That's not really the point. The problem is not in the text of the Rules of Procedure. The problem is in the inactionability of a government that just doesn't bring the laws here. The second part, that you need to make interpelation more attractive. I have a simple answer to that. Attractive interpelations will be if ministers run out of them. But they don't come here. And when an extraordinary meeting is convened, which is very important for the future of the Czech Republic, when we are discussing the report of the Supreme Audit Office, an independent body, independent of the power of both executive and legislative and judicial. The one who is the instrument primarily for the government to know where he has weak spots, where he should concentrate, but, of course, he is also the one who is listened to by the opposition. And the meeting is going to take place when the Prime Minister isn't here? When there were three of the ministers here at the top of the table, and they were still taking turns on the clock, saying there was always this one so that the meeting wouldn't have to be interrupted. It's not possible to work like this. And the attractive interpelling doesn't solve any adjustment to this point. It's easy for the Prime Minister and the ministers to come here to solve the tragic intercession. That's not happening yet. Again, we do not have to change the Rules of Procedure. This is about political culture in this House, which goes from ten to five. And I'm already a memorial. But this hasn't happened in history. And the last one. Like wrap up in all those adjustments where we talk about efficiency, canceling the veto right to small clubs? That we're gonna be strong now that we're strong, we're gonna step on the rights of the opposition? Why? Is there any objective reason why the opposition and the small MPs have abused their role here? How many breaks have we taken to the club meeting since the beginning of the term? Did we do it once in two years? Now I speak for the Mayors and Independents Club. Twice? Maybe three times? This is the inefficiency that needs to be dealt with by amending the basic law on which the Chamber of Deputies is held. [[11.50 hours]] There is again another pretending to solve the problem, which is not the problem. The problem is not in the Rules of Procedure and its wording. The problem is in the political culture that is going on here, and in pretending to do some kind of work and some sort of solution just by presenting such meaningless and unnecessary laws. Since this proposal is unfounded, it does not, none of its arguments, which says how important it is to increase efficiency, it is basically not based on real facts and on real arguments, so I give the proposal for a return to recasting the petitioner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u11	Yes, Prime Minister. Mr Faltýnek has now made his point of view. We are in the debate; factual remarks take precedence. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u12	Have a nice noon. Colleagues, colleagues, esteemed members of the government, or a member, I'm really just a technical remark for my colleague Farský's performance. [[Minister Dostálová.]] Let's see, my friends, how many times yesterday, when the Treasury Secretary answered questions for the government, were sitting in the Democratic bloc representative's room. Nineteen. Reputants of the callers, 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u13	Real notes. President Bělobrádek, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am now only the Emeritus President. [[- Yes.]] I understand that habit is an iron shirt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u15	It's quite a habit, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u16	I'm only chairman of the Permanent Supervisory Commission. I think that if, for example, the YES movement to some of its Members, whose speeches raise a large number of factual remarks and sometimes look like a cabaret, they had somehow arranged not to perform too often with their well-thought-out theories, it would make the Chamber of Deputies much more effective. And I would also like to say that there is no democratic club, and I would like a representative of the coalition, including their supporters, to finally realize that. The Democratic Club doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u17	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u18	President Faltýnek certainly knows that the Democratic bloc existed for about two weeks. Quite purposefully, on purpose, he's lying about you from the Democratic bloc. But I take it he's teasing us like that. I get it, I get it. I think it's okay. If at least half the government were sitting here, I might think about it. One. Yesterday, I called it a masterpiece of the propaganda ministry, a mix of truths, facts, half-truths and lies. I insist. At least from the area of transport there were several lies, which can certainly be proved. If half the government were sitting here, I'd take that reminder. First, many listen to speeches elsewhere than here. We are not the only ones, government MPs do it, it is not important at all. But the awkward course yesterday. I asked the Prime Minister if he was having a good time. Yesterday I asked: Are you having a good time, Mr. Chairman? I asked through the vice president yesterday, of course, maybe you had a good time. And I said it yesterday, I repeat it, and I am not happy to say it: I am convinced that you have not grown into the third largest constitutional factor. And I experienced other House presidents when I was in opposition. They treated us differently. Not that they'd agree to our proposals. They voted against too, that's perfectly fine. I'm not convincing anyone to change their political mind. The kind of play that was sitting here when the secretary spoke... How many members of the YES sitting here? I don't know. And I'm not counting. And it's not important. The important thing is how many votes have been voted and how the House has taken it. We are not subordinate to the government. The Prime Minister here says, "I'll ask the minister if there are new rules, if he doesn't come when he has four." What a beg! [[In an elevated voice.]] We're supposed to call the ministers! Don't beg them to come!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u19	Thank you. President Vondráček, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u20	Thank you. I chose a factual remark. You know, I've been relatively moderate and correct in media statements. I think I'm gonna enjoy this a little bit. Sorry, President Stanjuro through the President. When the President receives a motion for an emergency meeting, he must convene it within ten days, and each Member shall have the right to have an invitation five days in advance. I have five days left. That's not much. And when I got a request for an emergency meeting, I took the phone, and who do you think I called the very first time? I called Mr. Stanjur. When do you want the meeting? I suggested Friday at 11:00 that we do something here for two hours, make an election, and that it would be Friday. Mr. Stanjura told me no, no, that's not enough. Do it Thursday. I say, there are interpelations on Thursday. When Wednesday breaks for Friday, it's possible, it's been done in the past. I had to check with the organizational department because I haven't done it this way myself. Then I called Prime Minister Michálek to see if he's okay with it. He didn't have a problem. Then I called Prime Minister Bartošek. I asked him - he doesn't have a problem with it. And then I told Mr. Faltýnek. So tell me what I did wrong with the Chamber of Deputies, when I first deal with those who called the meeting, and I want to meet them. And I didn't tell the press yesterday. And now you're gonna bring me this. I don't know who's normal in this room anymore. As for the debate on the Rules of Procedure, please, let us get back to that. I'm begging you. Again - there was a very factual and constructive debate within the working group. Everything's written down, everything's a copy of me sending out the e-mails. I'm ready to go back, for anything. It's just a democratic debate. Let's talk about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u21	President Kalousek with a factual remark, then Mr Svoboda and President Stanjura, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u22	Thank you. Mr President Faltýnek, please do not try to give the false impression that there may have been some parliamentary debate here yesterday at the end of which the Minister of Finance answered questions, as you said. There was no such thing. There was no discussion here. Here the petitioners presented an extraordinary meeting with a justification for why the extraordinary meeting was to take place, and they appealed to you, your colleagues, to allow the debate to be allowed, for example, at the end of the meeting, to answer questions which any Member could freely ask. And that's exactly what you stopped. It didn't happen here. That means, after all of us who have priority rights have justified why this meeting should take place and why these questions should be answered, the Minister spoke with some speech where you could say - I don't want to judge it, yesterday I called it a high performance for the school of demagogy, but that's not important, let's not go back to that. But it just wasn't a discussion. You did not allow my colleagues at the club, as well as colleagues at ODS, Pirates, to perform and ask questions. It didn't happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Svoboda, followed by President Stanjura and Mr Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to express myself, through you, to the chairman of the ANO club, who approached us here with how many of us were here yesterday. I'd like to say that since the beginning of the week, we've been orbiting club YES to pair up on Thursday. Just because we knew that there was to be a meeting of both the Prague Council, there was to be a committee meeting in the insurance company, so many of the pairings took us. But the moment the word came out that there was going to be an extraordinary meeting, our pairing actually became useless, because the day before, the insurance company canceled the negotiations it was supposed to have, at the request of YES. We didn't know, we were paired up just because that was our duty. This is also one of the options for using correct agreements that work here and using them so that then President Faltýnek will say that we were not here. We've been paired up with people from YES.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u25	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, let me continue. Before I give the floor to President Stanjur, then to Mr Bělobrádek, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Chvojka apologizes from 13.15 for working reasons, Minister Tomáš Petříček from 12 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Richter from 12 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Ondřej Benešík from 11.30 to 14 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Roman Sklenák from 11.30 to 14 o'clock and Mr Radovan Vích from 11.15 to the end of the day. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes from 13.15 a.m. to the end of the day. I will now ask President Zbyněk Stanjura to take the floor on his point of fact. A colleague of Bělobrádek will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u26	Thank you. First of all, the way the government treats us like the House. We just saw a shift on the penalty box. Poor Benjamin is holding now, and there's only one minister here. [[Towards Minister Vojtěch.]] They took turns, so there's a minister here. He's on duty now. I don't know how much you've been given, whether you've been given personal minutes - two plus ten, or by the end of the day. [[Fun.]] It's just about political culture, how we're gonna make the debate more attractive. President Vondráček - I do not believe he does not understand what is normal. The way he described how he called me, that's all true, except he didn't tell me the Prime Minister wasn't gonna be here. Am I crazy to want an emergency meeting at a time when the Prime Minister isn't here? Is that what you think? I'll describe it to you. Then I will invite you to dinner in Prague to clarify the opposition's relationship with the coalition, with some constructive suggestions on how we can improve it. Do not make it more efficient - improve and culture. I'll invite you to the restaurant, and you'll come in and find it's closed. I'll give you Monday or Tuesday first. You'll say I'm not here on Monday, I have a meeting, I accept the ambassador, so Tuesday would be fine, Mr. Chairman. You'll be there on Tuesday and it'll be closed. And I'll tell you yes, but I gave you the choice Monday or Tuesday, and you chose Tuesday. I didn't come on Tuesday either, because I knew he wouldn't be there, nor did the Chairman come on Thursday. And then he asks what's normal! Normal is, when I ask, and I appreciate it, now I don't mean it ironically, he appreciated the debate on the deadline for an extraordinary meeting, but if you told me that the Prime Minister wouldn't be here on Thursday, I'll say it, of course: well, it's out of the question! But you've already kept your mouth shut, and you're making me look like an asshole! So, for example, we're doing an emergency meeting on Tuesday. [[A note from the diaper.]] Why didn't you find out who? Opposite MP. Madam, I will not comment on this, because this is an idea, this is so realistic - I will call Andrea Babiš and say: Hello, Prime Minister. I want to grill you, I want to criticize you. When would you be willing to come and experience it on your own? And he's gonna give me six dates to choose to always come. That's how members of the YES work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Belabrádek's factual remark, a colleague Hájek and President Vondráček will be prepared. So far, we are still in the debate on factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, I would like to confirm the words of President Kalousek. It was simply the problem of not being able to speak with factual remarks like this, that is, it was not a discussion. On the contrary, it was prevented. And the other thing that was here, what was normal. The normal thing is that on Thursday, when you're supposed to be normally interpelling, you're all members of the government, and I've been one for four years, they reserve this time if they're not actually on some extraordinarily planned trip somewhere, and only when the interpellation isn't on them, they're outside the House and they have some other program. If the interpelations are on them, of course they should come here and fulfill them. The fact that members of this government quite give a shit about it is another matter, and I think it should be the subject of an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, so that those members of the Government are here when the interpelations are on them, and it really should be an extraordinary situation that they will not come. That's normal, and it's not like they call each other "interpelation," we don't care, it's some bullshit, and what the opposition would say to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Josef Hájek, also with a factual remark, will be prepared by the President of the House and I have another factual point. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u30	Mr President, I apologize for not following the instructions of the President of our club, who tells me not to perform, but I cannot. It won't work for me if Mr Stanjura here, through Mr President, attacked our minister. Minister Klára Dostálová came to me and said, "Please, Josef, I am going to a meeting with the President of the Supreme Administrative Court in connection with the negotiation of the construction law. It is unfair of you, it is unfair of you, it is unfair of you, Mr Stanjur through Mr President! You just don't do that! We're about to celebrate Mother's Day, and I think we should be right about women. You did right by women today from the point of view that you left Mrs. Majerová Zahradníková on that committee, what's the proper name? - the delegation of the Inter-European Union, because you realized well that if you called them off, and she represents women there, you would kick your own nest. So you've got good piercers, congratulations. Please, we're discussing an amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act. I think that each of us who has a chance to look somewhere, starting with Slovakia, Germany, etc., knows that we need this novel because our work is often very ineffective, see yesterday. And the last sentence. Mr Kalousek here has taught me the word that the Chamber of Deputies is a sovereign. And yesterday, the Chamber of Deputies decided by sovereign decision that they would simply not approve of the program. I'm going to ask my colleagues from the ČSSD, those who have been here longer, perhaps a colleague of Votava, to say how many times at the time of the ODS' reign, they've cut off an extraordinary meeting that they may have called for, perhaps, church restitutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give Prime Minister Vondráček the floor, I'll read an apology. Vice-President Petr Fiala apologizes from 12.30 to the end of the day. Mr Radek Vondráček's point of view. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u32	Thank you. Poor Rules of Procedure! I don't know if we're going back to him tonight. President Stanjuro, through the President, is responsible for whether or not someone is an asshole himself in the first place. If you tell me on the other hand, we insist that the Prime Minister be there, because our top priority is to insult the Prime Minister, who will be here in person, so we can talk about it. I remember doing in the past that I even made arrangements with those plaintiffs for an extraordinary meeting, that they didn't bring the proposal until after the weekend to suit them, so that we'd always have the term right. I've always consulted with the plaintiff, mostly with the opposition. It's probably time to rethink this practice of mine, and I'm going to start doing it really authoritarianly, and I'm going to take full responsibility for it, and I'm not going to ask anybody when I'm going to call this extraordinary meeting. The Rules of Procedure themselves. Once again, it's a kind of democracy lab, because the regulation only applies to us, it has no external influences, and almost nobody cares about it but us, that is. outside this building, and I would really like us to really follow up on those constructive debates within that working group, because I can't get rid of the impression that at the moment some people enter this door, there will be a complete eclipse and personality change, because what we're able to normally have isn't exactly what we're talking about right behind that door or on the phone. Attention, this is also part of democracy, and this is part of the parliamentary debate, and we are paid to do so. But I'd think with that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u33	Mr. Chairman, I must terminate your speech. You're done with your point of order. Now, Mrs Procházková, Mr Stanjura will also prepare for a factual remark, and Vice-President Petr Fiala and Miroslav Kalousek. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u34	Thank you. Good day to all of you today. Of course, I cannot forgive myself on the basis of the accusation or speech made by President Stanjura through you, Mr President. It is very simple when I plan such a terribly important, really very important emergency meeting to find out the essentials, and very simple is going to the government's website, there are expected events and 23. 4. in 17.34 information was published that Andrej Babiš would meet with representatives of the V4 and negotiate with the Prime Minister of Japan. The details were written here, and there was the fact that they would be in Bratislava. So it's really very simple. Everyone can do it, even a little kid can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u35	Thank you for keeping the time Mrs. Procházková. Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u36	I didn't want to argue with the lady. Yes, every little child can read on April 23rd that the Prime Minister will be away on the 25th. We've already had an invitation, the meeting's already been called, and the President called me on April 19th. So every little kid knows four days in advance what's going to be published on the website, and that ODS president is really wrong. Because if he was like a little kid, he'd know four days before the government's publication. To Mr Hájek by your means. If you're in school, I'll give you an understanding of the spoken word for five, Mr. MP through the Vice-President. I wasn't talking about the secretary at all, so how could I touch her? I was joking, unfortunately, about the small participation of members of the government and I spoke with the Minister of Health. I wasn't talking about the secretary at all. So how could I have touched her in any way? I respect that. But where are the other 15 members of the government when the Chamber of Deputies acts? That's what I've been pointing out, and I've been smiling, and I've said it's like a penalty box, and the minister was smiling. He didn't get offended, he nodded his head that he was on duty. To the Rules of Procedure, let us say so. The President of the Chamber of Deputies liked the word democracy. He uses it very often. And we could in principle not care about this as citizens' democrats, because this proposal, in addition to extending the term of procedure on Wednesday, does not shorten our rights. That's an honest statement to make. But it's the biggest attack on the smallest. And that doesn't seem democratic to me. The attack of the largest club, represented by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, on the smallest clubs. And he's taking away their rights. That doesn't seem very democratic to me. And that's the mistake. And the second thing Marek Benda was talking about, and according to that, the bill could end up like this. Unfortunately, this is not the result of the agreement. The fact that you have signed there yourself, Mr President through the Vice-President, means that this is your proposal. And we're ready, and we're able to have a fair debate about those sections, but we don't want to attack--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u37	Mr President, you too have ended the time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u38	Vice-President, I had two more seconds when you spoke!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u39	I also see when the time will end. Now Vice-President Petr Fiala with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u40	I don't want to have a debate about democracy here, but please don't push it around. Democracy, of course, is not just that you have a majority. Okay. Yes. That's got to do with it. And democracy is also a respect for the minority, democracy is also a respect for the rules, democracy is also a respect for the fundamental principles and practices that are in the Chamber of Deputies. And, of course, the spirit of the Constitution. And what we're talking about here is obvious, and I'm completely ashamed to have to defend ourselves here and explain what we really wanted. Well, if we want to call an emergency meeting on key government issues, whether it be a report from the Supreme Audit Office, which puts a very negative assessment on the government, whether it be budgetary problems, whether it be a conflict of interests of Andrej Babiš, who is being dealt with at a European level, then perhaps it is logical that there must be a Prime Minister here and, if possible, all the members of the government. I don't know what we're even talking about, and how we can think about it, it might be different. And, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, through the Vice-President, I object to the statement 'when you were here to insult Andrej Babiš'. We didn't mean to insult Andrej Babiš. We don't judge Andrej Babiš. We wanted to discuss the report of the independent institution, the Supreme Audit Office, and we wanted to hear how the government is doing, and we wanted to hear it from the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who is responsible for this. We wanted to talk about the state budget going bad. What the government will do about it. And we wanted to hear it from Andrej Babiš, who is responsible. And we wanted to talk about the fact that we have problems with subsidies, that the conflict of interest of Andrej Babiš is being resolved at a European level, and we wanted to know from Andrej Babiš how to do it. I think it's logical, elementary, democratic. I don't understand why we're talking about this, and I'm just calling you, the next time you summon, because you have the authority, at the initiative of the opposition parties, to convene an extraordinary meeting, so please call on her for the moment when the Prime Minister and the members of the government will be here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u41	Mr Vice-President, you also have time to make a point of fact. Thank you. My colleague Kalousek does not insist on his point of fact. In that case, Mr Jan Farský with a factual remark, then Mr Josef Hájek and Mr Václav Votava and Mr Marek Benda are still registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, especially colleagues and colleagues from the ANO movement, I recommend your attention to the Constitution of the Czech Republic Rule 68 and already paragraph 1 and then paragraph 3. There you will read that the government answers to the Chamber of Deputies that the government must ask for the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. I have come to the impression from your speeches that you feel that the government is over the Chamber of Deputies, that the Chamber of Deputies must follow the time and the place where it decides to go, and whether or not the ministers are coming to the House, and that you may have to wait for some direction from the chief, sorry, Prime Minister to act, not act and what to do. But it's just not like that. The Chamber of Deputies and each of you are a sovereign. You decide whether or not the government will or not, and not the government, it doesn't decide whether or not you're gonna sit here. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Josef Hájek with a factual remark and then Václav Votava, if there are no further comments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u44	Mr President, fellow Members, it is a pity that there is no longer Vice-President of the House of Fiala, who has called for the opposition to be given the opportunity to speak, to criticise, to convene extraordinary meetings, and to criticize, in particular, that the Chamber of Deputies did not approve the agenda of the meeting. So please, in the 6th parliamentary term under the ODS government, there were 11 times, I repeat the 11-time unapproved agenda of the meeting that proposed the opposition. Eleven times! I don't have enough fingers or both hands to do that. These were topics of CASA, doctor's departures, the information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the establishment of the commission of inquiry, etc. So please, what are we still playing at here? What's this, what's it called in Wallachia or in Slovak, what are you doing? You can always use something to rip out. When Mr Klaus appealed and the members of our committee voted against, you argued about democracy here and argued about a number of things that you did not observe at the time Mrs Zelenková appealed. So please stop being hypocritical. Let us pour pure wine that the Chamber of Deputies has the right to democratically decide on an emergency meeting, and if the majority do not like it, or it does not seem like it is simply not the purpose for us to address this issue, then it is the sovereign decision of the democratic majority of Parliament and respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Marek Výborný with a point of fact, Jiří Bláha will be prepared. Votava and Benda's colleagues are still waiting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, my fellow Members, I must turn against the words of both my colleague Hájek and what has already been said here from the mouth of President Vondráček. The meeting yesterday... Of course, I completely agree with you, it is legitimate, and we respect that, the legitimate right of the Houses not to approve the proposed program. Yes. But we also made it clear yesterday that the meeting was not convened because of Andrej Babiš, the meeting was not directed towards him, but the meeting was convened because there are clear, objective facts, whether it is the report of the Supreme Audit Office or the issue of the state budget. We didn't make that up. Those reports on how the state budget is developing, they're given. It's just the first quarter, and the numbers are clear, there's a slump. And if we were expecting anything from that, it was the fact that the government would behave according to the Constitution, according to the responsibility of this House, and that it would have fun answering the questions that we are asking. We may disagree, but if we were able to agree in the last year, for example. to support affordable housing with Minister Dostálová, so why are we unable to agree to finance social services? It's the kind of thing these people are waiting for. Those grandmothers lying on those beds, I wonder what they're gonna do in September when the charity and the deacon get released. And these are things that don't bother the opposition. We weren't here yesterday in opposition-government position. We wanted to solve the problems of people who are real, real, objective, not even a colleague of Hájek, nor anyone else can simply deny. And I do not want to reach into President Vondráček's conscience, as was the case with the summoning or non-calling, but it would be good for us to treat each other here with respect, decently, when a meeting is to be convened, where the Prime Minister should also be, so that this is taken into account. And as it was or was not, only President Vondráček knows best himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Bláha, then the President of the House, both with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this has now been said, last time Mr Výborný's speech through Mr President, that we should treat each other fairly and politely. So I have to say that when I came here, the first few sessions I left really on my back carrying an incredible amount of insults, slander and contempt that came. I don't want to repeat the names that fell on the Prime Minister's address. I was ashamed of those who performed like this, and it certainly did not make me feel comfortable, and it never makes me feel comfortable, because if I want to have a discussion with someone, I don't think they're gonna get it. And so don't be surprised that often, when the Prime Minister is to be interrogated or confronted in some way, I don't want to say that he would avoid it, but if he has a more important program, he prefers to devote himself to the important one rather than to the insults that are often mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual remark from the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u50	Thank you. Now I'm a little surprised. I'm joining Mr. Excellent's challenge. So let's just treat each other right, decent, let's stop putting on each other. Let's not just play theater. We should be dealing with something here. I've heard somewhere that this meeting is supposed to happen again. I recommend that as a follow-up to the callers, we call to see when the ten-day deadline ends, when the five-day deadline ends, then we can adjust the day of the filing, and we can agree when the emergency meeting will be. They can ask me, and I'll need to know in advance when they tell me that it's necessary for them to have the Prime Minister there. I say again, on Thursday it was at the express request of President Stanjura, even those ten hours you said to Mr Stanjura, I would put it at nine. And now I've got a letter coming in. I consider the pamphlet to be incorrect, as a low-end. And I'm not going to apologize for calling an emergency meeting as requested and requested by whoever wanted to call it. It's not normal! Let's just act the way people do outside this building. This has nothing to do with normal behavior. Finally, we come to the conclusion that all 200 of us are an asshole, because those people don't care that there are five or six people debating here, and then everyone who just sits and waits for the discussion to end and we go back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. A colleague Marek Výborný and Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared, all with factual comments and we already have three duly registered. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I would just add to Mr Bláha's words that then let us be truly correct and remember what your President, the current Prime Minister, said about his political competition both outside this House and within this House, has literally been screaming and showing where thieves sit here, which is not just an insult, but which I think is also a question of a much greater quality of such an expression. And the way he spoke about many people not only in private, but also in negotiations that were official, I have a lot of experience with that myself. So if you really want to be correct, start with yourself. And what was said here. You can blame - and it wasn't about us, what was here - but I think that... [[A note from the diaper.]] Then be better. Then be better than those before you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Marek the Výborný's point of view. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u54	Thank you for the floor. I must at least respond briefly by your means to my colleague Bláha. Well, let me tell you how your boss, excuse me, Prime Minister, represents the cooperation and solution to the problems of the people who are waiting for it. When I wrote to him ten days ago that I'd like to meet him to discuss family support, what he was promoting two months ago, the question of settling pensions between a man and a woman and so on, and so on, so I didn't get the answer until today. So that's the idea you were talking about, how great it is, how he wants to communicate. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský also has a point of fact, and now a colleague of Votava can look forward to it. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u56	Good afternoon. I am very sorry, but I would like to comment on the vote number 133, where I am at high school, that I voted against it, but I voted clearly in favour. I'm not questioning the vote, but I'd like it to be on the log. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u57	Thank you. I'm sure it'll be on the tape. And we can proceed to the debate. Among the duly registered is Václav Votava, Marek Benda and colleague Ferjenčík. But before that... Excuse me, I apologize to Václav Votav, because my colleague Pikal signed up with priority rights, so I took it from Petr Fiala during the proceedings, and now I forgot. So one more apology for both participants. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u58	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I didn't perform in the altercation that took place here, perhaps I would have just one comment before I got to the subject, and that is that I would like to stand up for the members of the government clubs who wish to perform. I think that this right should not be denied to them that we would be deprived of whether or not there is any difference of opinion on the other side. Anyway, get to the point. Something has already been said to the press here, whether or not it is a joint compromise proposal. I think he speaks for everything that if it were some joint compromise proposal that all those who took part in those negotiations would be signed under it, which did not happen. However, I thank you for the incorporation of this definition of parity and I have already prepared about six amendments, which are read in the system for this press, which will relate to for example. parities, secondly, to resolve in the future how, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, the commission established by law to control certain security services, etc., changed. So so that at the beginning of each parliamentary term, we don't change it once to five, once to six, once to seven, once to at least seven and so on, so I tried to find some solution that would work forever, if possible. Then there are some reservations about the vetoes that are rationalising there, virtually. About the question. We had no objection to reducing the opposition's power, whether it was a third reading or the rationalization of the veto, but we expected it to be balanced by something, for example. Given the extraordinary meetings or discussions of the government's confidence, so that things are more rational there, so that the programme may not have to be approved or, on the contrary, that we sometimes get to the approval of the programme at some rational time. This has not happened, so I expect that there will be some discussion about this in other readings. [[12.30 hours]] We have there proposals regarding some commission-able actions, because we have also met during this parliamentary term with the fact that the chairman of the Supervisory Commission or of some commission was not elected, and at the same time some important issues were to be dealt with, and this committee was not able to meet because of this, so we are proposing a minor correction in order to cover those commissions which do not have rules of procedure as annexed to this law. Then I would like to comment on one more thing that we have a little problem with, because there is the principle of replacing the House's plenary in some cases by committee, as is the case with the Committee on European Affairs. We think that this does not actually work quite well with the Committee on European Affairs, because often the House itself, let alone the public, will not know that, for example, a yellow card has been applied. So we would be looking for a better mechanism there, whether it concerns the discussion of reports, when at least it should reach plenary in a package, or whether it concerns the positions of the House, where we are represented by the Committee on European Affairs, and it is entirely, to say the least, because of the President, whether or not this will take place in plenary. There I would like to look for a mechanism to learn about this plenary. Then, of course, we're planning some other things. I am in communication with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the quicker negotiation of international treaties and the negotiation of amendments to international treaties, so that this is done in a more sensible way than in two readings, in which we can do nothing but agree or disagree, so there is no need to accept any amendments etc. And, of course, a topic that has been going on in the long run - I think there's a chance to talk about some better model of interpelling, at least of the block or something that we would approach to the British model where it actually happens as an interview, there are some guaranteed preferential rights for opposition clubs in the order of the size of these clubs, etc. So, overall, there is no reason not to let the press go to second reading, but there are a lot of things that I will expect to have a long discussion of the various amendments. They're in the system. I suppose we'll meet somewhere in the Constitutional Legal Committee, where I'm not a member, but I'd be happy to come. I expect another debate, too, because it's not the usual press, so to speak. The Rules of Procedure are a law whereby laws are passed. It is a law which is listed in the Constitution for the approval of both chambers, and we must have a consensus then with the Senate, which may have some own requirements regarding its own Rules of Procedure, so that they may also be able to approve it themselves, etc., as I have noted. So we can expect this debate as well. So soon for me. I now expect a debate on the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u59	I thank Vice-President Pikal. I'll read the apologies from today's meeting. From 12.30 to 14am, Mr. Daniel Pawlas apologizes for his work, from 12.15 to 14.30pm due to his doctor's visit, Mr. Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes. Now, Mr Václav Votava, Marek Benda will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u60	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, who will wait, will see, so I've finally been there. Thank you. Maybe I'd just like to introduce myself to my colleague Hájek. He asked me here to confirm something. Mr President, I have heard and experienced many things here over the years, both from the right side and from the left side. I don't think there's any point in commenting on these things, so I guess I'm not gonna satisfy you, and I'm not gonna comment. I'd go back to my own law after all. I haven't had the opportunity to make any comments, suggestions or suggestions since I was here that year and a half, through our representative who was in the working group, so I'm only doing this now. I have one thing that quite, I don't want to say bothers me, but which certainly doesn't have logic, it's not okay, it's not good. I've been pointing to her for the past term, but unfortunately, nothing has changed. As I find out, in the year and a half I haven't been here, it hasn't changed either. In Part 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, in Sections 101 to 106, it is laid down how the draft law on the State Budget is being discussed. We will discuss 9. 5. State Final Account for 2017. I repeat - the State Final Account for 2017. Well, there's nothing older than yesterday's paper, but I don't think there's anything older in 2019 than the State Final Account for 2017. It's not normal to discuss today, in May, the State Final Account for 2017. I think we've slipped into a completely formal matter. I say this as a government MP, and I would say this as an MP who would be opposed. I wouldn't change a thing about that. It's just a formality and it's wrong. It shouldn't be a formality. I think it is appropriate, therefore, that the negotiation of the state final account be linked to the discussion of the draft state budget. I'll try to explain. I think it should work this way. Therefore, if the state final account is not discussed in the following year, the state budget cannot be started for the following year either. In other words, if we were talking here about the State Final Account for 2017, it should be discussed in 2018, and only after it has been discussed could the State Budget for 2019 be discussed. I think it has logic. This can only be changed - and that is why I am talking about it - by amending the Rules of Procedure in the relevant section 13. I think it's really worth thinking about. It doesn't just concern this state's final account and the state's budget. We're discussing this, and we've been talking about it, and the President of the House has talked about it, and we're discussing a number of information, a number of reports, annual reports, financial statements. Imagine that we will discuss at this meeting the financial statements and the annual report of the SFDI for 2015 and 2016. Is there a point to this? It's for something. I don't think it's any use. The same when waiting here to discuss other reports that could be discussed by committees. As the President of the House said, I agree with that, and I think it might be that way to discuss the committees. And if there is a requirement in the committees that this be transferred to the Chamber of Deputies, then let us discuss it directly with the Chamber of Deputies. I think saving time would be quite obvious, and it might not be that we're illogically discussing something that was two or three years ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u61	I thank Mr Václav Votav. I'm gonna ask my colleague Marek Benda to wait. In fact, Vice-President Pikal came forward. Please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u62	I thank Mr Votav by your means for the proposal. I quite like it, however, I should note that there is something older than the State Final Account for 2017, and these are reports on the activities and management of Czech Television for 2016. We are also still on the agenda, and we have not been able to discuss them either. There are two kinds of reports, I would see it this way, some are fundamental and should take place in plenary, some are not so crucial and it would be enough to discuss the committee, with no one taking it to the plenary afterwards, so only the House would vote there by one vote with some package of these reports in my opinion agree that it takes note that it was represented by the committee. I think that would be a good model. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u63	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marek Benda, now duly enrolled, not in the role of the rapporteur, but in his position. A colleague of Ferjenčík will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u64	Mr Vice-President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also try to be fairly brief. I think the course of the debate shows us that the bill is not really ripe at this point in time for discussion in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. If they come, including from government parties, people say "some things should be done there," so do representatives of smaller opposition clubs and say some things that we might be able to deal with in the foreseeable future if there were any strengthening of the opposition's rights. They are given here purely as a limitation of the opposition, and I would just say that, for example, the right of the veto of two parliamentary clubs is most commonly used in this House by representatives of government parties to place new points in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, because government parties are usually not certain by the vote of their Members, so they prefer to veto points they do not want to be discussed. [[Very noisy in the hall!]] I believe that the proposal is not prepared in such a way that it can be discussed. I'm kind of blaming Prime Minister Vondráček. And the way I said I'd be kind to the news report, I'm saying here I think this is a little unfinished. That things such as the Rules of Procedure, which must find a majority consensus, have to go around for quite a lot longer than the fact that I will convene three or four meetings, in which officials still usually appear. What is presented, and it has already been said, maybe, except for the discussion of reports, it does not bring anything fundamentally new. All that is to happen is an extension of the 30-day deadline for discussing third readings - Wednesday until evening hours. But we've also seen today again, the deadline is no good for us, because there's nothing to discuss anyway. In fact, we are in a situation where we do not have most of the things discussed at first reading, the government does not carry any of its own proposals that it would like to promote. Thank God for that, of course. Thank God for that. Let us be glad that the government and its ability to produce some standards are very low, it is good that we do not have new laws here. But there is no need to make the House more effective in this regard in my opinion. I would be inclined to return this proposal to the plaintiff for work. He will no doubt consider whether he will start working on a possible amendment to the Rules of Procedure with a higher level of communication with all others and with the need for such an amendment to the Rules of Procedure to apply from the next parliamentary term in connection with the fact that there will be a whole range of changes related to the eCollection and other regulations needed here, but not to make it look like straw out of shoes. The need for a government majority, and the strong YES movement that the President represents here today, has somehow strengthened his word, his position in the Chamber of Deputies, that is very unreasonable. I'm telling you from long-term experience. Sometimes you are in government, but sometimes you may also feel comfortable being in opposition, and therefore it is good to have the Rules of Procedure set up so that government and opposition options and roles are balanced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u65	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear, and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is signed in with a proper application. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We haven't been sitting here in the past few times, so I don't think we really need to blame each other for who stepped on their chicken eye about the House's extraordinary meetings. I generally think that if the opposition does not summon them extremely often, it could be polite from the coalition to allow them to do their proper work, including the approval of the programme and the discussion of the proposed resolutions. I think maybe our club doesn't call them so often that there's a reason to block them at the design phase of the program. So maybe I couldn't respond to Secretary Schillerová, as an MP who was responsible for the budget issues in our club, but I don't have a priority right. As regards the Act on Rules of Procedure and the effectiveness of negotiations, there are two sets of topics. One set of topics is purely practical things, like how to do it, so we can discuss the state's final account in time, so that the thing that doesn't burn anybody politically extra just doesn't stay hanging somewhere at the end of a block, where, by chance, there's one controversial thing in that block. So that's one circle of topics. And the second set of topics is the setting of powers and rights between the opposition and the coalition. Unfortunately, in the current Rules of Procedure, if the opposition wants to point out that it does not agree with something significantly, it must talk a lot. This is the construction of the Rules of Procedure today, that if we are to say that we fundamentally disagree with the EET, then we simply have to argue many meetings against the EET. Then after a while, someone will notice that the opposition may have a problem with this law, because it's already under discussion at the sixth meeting, so it's obvious that someone doesn't like it. We certainly do not prevent this mechanism from being replaced by some other mechanism where, for example, several political clubs ask to abstain from these laws or to raise some, for example, a treaty for the approval of proposals or for pre-routines and such things. We certainly do not defend ourselves from having to talk a lot here, instead of having to talk a lot, there is another mechanism that will allow us to express the same. That means expressing strong disapproval of some law. And if this mechanism can be found, it's an acceptable compromise for us. Likewise, in relation to the extension of the time limits for third reading or the vetoes. We do not have a priori problem with this, but it seems unfair to us when, at the same time, the coalition strengthens its power to enforce laws, at the same time, the opposition gives no compensation in terms of, for example, the negotiation of one day of the opposition's proposals or something like that. The second thing is that it's extremely unfair what you're doing towards small clubs. Because the original Rules of Procedure were designed on the basis of the electoral law, which was valid until 1998. On the basis of this electoral law, it was not possible for there to be a club in the House that does not have ten Members. Until 1998, if the party obtained 5% of the vote, it had at least ten Members. This is reflected in a number of provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, today, and I do not blame the YES movement, it was the ODS and the ČSSD at the time of the opposition agreement, when they destroyed the electoral law to a large extent, and it occurred that small clubs need roughly twice as many votes as the largest of the clubs, so as a result of the disruption of the proportional system in the electoral law, there is a possibility that we have a parliamentary club with six Members. That wasn't possible before. So the Rules of Procedure were originally proposed and the quotas derived from it. So really, in order to be equivalent, it should be true that for each of the top ten Members, that should be the equivalent of, say, one club, that if STAN has six Members, then it should automatically be counted as ten, because that corresponds to the five percent, which is ten Members out of two hundred. So, just to be fair, those quotas are supposed to be set up so that the minimum units that add up are actually ten Members. So that's a fundamental objection to your proposal for me, even though it doesn't concern the pirát in any way. [[12.50 hours]] But we also suggested it in reducing the boundaries of the electoral law. We drew attention to the various anomalies in the smaller regions where, for example, in the Karlovy Vary Region, YES has a little more than 30 per cent of the votes and 60 per cent of the mandates, which is an extremely disproportionate way of allocating those mandates. Therefore, if you are introducing these mechanisms that limit the opposition, it is appropriate to bring mechanisms within a compromise that, on the contrary, increase the motivation of the opposition to operate more consensually in the House. I think the basic mechanisms are two. The first is the discussion of the opposition's proposals and the related proposal that, in relation to the reports, I have nothing against the committee's fiction, but the minority of the House should have the opportunity to question it. This is an essential mechanism. The moment you have the fiction that if the committee decides to discuss it itself and does not submit it to the House, it allows the coalition and some very important news to be blocked. [[A silence.]] I wanted to talk to Mr. Vondráček, so I waited. [[President Vondráček spoke to another Member at the table.]] I think if there's an option, for example. At the request of two clubs, cancel the committee's fiction, and it won't be based on the majority system, so no one has a problem with it, and it can improve the discussion of the press. If there are fewer, they'll wake up more thoroughly. But it shouldn't be built so that somebody beats it mostly on the committee. Well, that's just a comment. And the second crucial thing: to allow the opposition to express its fundamental opposition to any law in a way other than long speaking. If you invent this mechanism, and it can be e.g. the possibility of vetoing shifts on the agenda, it may be an opportunity to postpone the effectiveness of the Act for some time, the mechanisms can be invented by a whole series so logically the opposition will not have the incentive to block the discussion of any press just speeches, instead it will swell. It might as well be a limited number for a term of office or something like that. But I think this is something that you should focus on in terms of making the negotiations more effective so that the opposition can express their opposition more effectively and we could address, for example, those prints that are far less controversial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u67	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. I'm going to ask my colleague Stanjura to wait. There's a factual comment from my colleague Jiří Bláha. Then a proper application by Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the words that have been said here, through the President. And what I'd like to say is that what we can change the government's mind is arguments. But substantiated arguments! If you're talking about EET again, it's an unsubstantiated argument that you're constantly waving here, but it doesn't have a factual basis, because 99 percent of the entrepreneurs who use or use EET have nothing against EET. Except for one association representing entrepreneurs. So the vast majority of all who represent entrepreneurs have absolutely nothing against the EET. So we're arguing against the EET here, we're making 750 amendments here, we're constantly talking and stalling here, but in the finals, we don't have anything! All honest businessmen don't mind! So if you want, you can argue, but where it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A colleague of Lukáš Černohorský and President Stanjura is waiting for his performance. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u70	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President to Mr Bláh. My colleague said that if you put a point that you know ahead of time is conflicting, that means you're going to talk less about these laws because there are some laws on which we agree to go through the Chamber of Deputies like a butter knife. So if the President, in turn on the Gremium, agrees that some points are not conflicting, there is no problem putting them forward, and thus the work will, of course, look even more efficient, because you will get to those conflict points a little later. If, on the contrary, you give them the first point of the House's proceedings, the opposition does not give any other option than to make an argument here. And that's why, as you've pointed out here, there's so often and so much talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u71	Thank you for keeping time. Now, therefore, the proper application of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Before I give you my word, Mr President, I will ask the House for peace of mind so that your speeches may be heard in the hall. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u72	Thank you for the floor. I am quite surprisingly not going to respond to the EET, which I will keep for May 10th. But since I've seen both the government and the opposition bench, I'd like to say that we should speak openly. The political program is what we're running with here. And that's what we're different about. Each government brings the main political points of its programme in controversial laws against which the opposition fights. The idea of us always agreeing here with 18 implementations and messages that no one cares about, and then going home in a friendly way isn't real. These conflicts will take place and take place in every government. And if the government really has some kind of program, it's a strong promotion, and first it wants to discuss its fundamental points and then the others. That's what we did. So there's no problem. And if someone here is calling for it to be different, it's not realistic, and it's never gonna be like this. Only, and we have almost an example today, that the government doesn't do much and almost all of the points are so technical, so it could go quite quickly. So the idea of how they're not controversial points is only if the government doesn't do anything. Because we represent different voters, we run with different programs and we have different opinions. We'll always meet with the left over on taxes. And if the government wants to change taxes, for example. our next government, so it'll be our priority, and we'll be here for a very long time when we outvote you the way you do. We don't really complain about that. And if he's complaining about it, he's not in the right place and in the right job. So that's one. Secondly, if we're talking about extraordinary meetings, it's perfectly logical that the government doesn't want it. That's perfectly logical. And say if we're-- well, of course we were against the program, just like you're against the program. And we'll be against the program when it's the other way around. But something else is to allow debate with someone involved in the problem. Because it's a completely different matter if there's a representative government representation here, and the second thing is, if the vote decides to hold the meeting. For example, one of the helpful steps to the opposition, but we still have to consider it, I'm not saying that it could be, because we are already going to those government benches and looking forward to it, would be that there is no vote on the agenda for an extraordinary meeting. He can't be changed, and that's when you call for a vote of distrust to the government, so you don't vote on it. There is no way to prevent all Members from discussing a motion for distrust to the government. It's one of the things to talk about. I would like to advise the President to withdraw the bill. So that he doesn't put us on the stand for a return vote or a rejection vote. So as not to expose us to the struggle, that then most, which of course exists, can outvote the minority. At this point, I think it is not in a form with which a significant part of the opposition would agree. Now I don't think any of the opposition. I think it would take a lot of deboning to find a better match. I think, for example, the proposal for committee reports is correct. Let's just talk about the mechanism of getting it out of plenary when somebody recognizes it. I agree to discuss the State Final Account for 2017, the Annual Report of Czech Television 2016, the Transport Infrastructure Fund for 2015 in 2019 has no meaning and it is a pure formality. But sometimes it may seem different. We don't know ahead. But the mechanism to put it in committees and the mechanism of the European Committee is simply enough because we are able to transfer the material from the European Committee to plenary if it is interested. The fact that we don't take advantage of it is another thing, but we have that option, and we need to talk about it. [[13.00 hours]] Limitation of law enforcement in third reading. I've already said that in the last term. Do you think the government or the opposition pushed it? That it was an instrument for the government or for the opposition? It was a tool for the government at the time. We were against it because we were in opposition. But since it was 101:99, then the government majority always needed to get 101. It's impossible to keep it from Tuesday 14 to 14 to have 101 on the vote, so you set out ten hours to concentrate the government's majority and beat the minority. That, in time, this has become an instrument of the opposition, these are the paradoxes of the special-purpose amendments to the Rules of Procedure. We only see one argument, one situation in which I can use it. So it helped the government back then, we're using it pretty well, I think we did it in the last term. Not in this yet, but I can't rule out getting there. And the instrument that was meant to serve the government's majority, which was pushed through by the government majority, became an instrument for the opposition minority. The attack on the little clubs. I told you it seemed pointless. Not that there is no rational reasoning behind this, if there was agreement with colleagues from STAN, TOP 09, or KDU or Social Democrats, there is no difference at all. Let us imagine that there is indeed a right-wing government, and we have in opposition socialists and communists with 30 mandates. They're not even able to call anything, because there'd be two clubs, but they didn't have the 40. And it used to be that the right and the left were strong blocks. I think that such a change can be made in principle only with those who are directly affected. And it doesn't matter if in this or the next term. I, for one, am opposed to extending the time of the hearing at third reading. My colleague, Marek Benda, is more helpful to this, let's say quite frankly. It's actually four and a half hours from the extra day, which means if I said it was three negotiating weeks, including variable, it's 13 and a half hours. However, today is the fourth day of this meeting where we can discuss laws at third reading - Wednesday, Friday, Wednesday, Friday. How many laws have we passed in the third reading in 20 hours? It's only nineteen, we still have an hour. Two. And we certainly didn't need nineteen hours for that. I think maybe one hour. So that's not the problem, and maybe it's a white dog that if we remove this, we'll approve a restriction on the rights of the opposition. One personal experience. The Social Democrats once tormented us for six days and six nights straight. There's always only been a break from 8:00 to 9:00 in the morning. When we got to the vote after six days and six nights, it turned out as expected, which means the government had most of it. It ended on Saturday, I don't remember exactly, the first day we met, we had bloody eyes, and we had a lot of good ideas on how to limit the rights of the opposition so that we would never be here again for six days and six nights. At the time, I was quite a servant and my senior, or younger, colleague Marek Benda recommended that we cool down, meet in 14 days, and try to look at it from the other side, when we are once again in opposition. And then we cooled off, bloody eyes became normal eyes, and no motion to change the Rules of Procedure that we had prepared was made. It's an untransferable experience, but imagine coming to a meeting this week on Tuesday at 2:00 p.m. without knowing anything, and leaving on Saturday afternoon. All the time. I think that you should also have a lot of good proposals on how to change the Rules of Procedure, and we have used all the tools that could have reduced the opposition's appearance at that time, that is, twice ten minutes and so on, we know all this, yet it took six days and six nights to get to the vote itself, which then took about ten, maybe fifteen minutes. It was all Senate vomit, so there weren't any amendments. I wanted to ask the President, I know that sometimes we face each other personally, maybe sometimes I choose a sharper tone than it would be appropriate for him not to say that he is a pamphlet to the five presidents of opposition clubs. I quickly looked at a bunch of election results. I don't say this often, but these five MPs represent nearly 2 million voters. The fact that we have less seats together than you voters, that's the result of the electoral system, and I fully respect that. [[Nesroz.]] You may disagree with the proposal. If you consider this to be too sharp a text, you can respond equally sharply or even more sharply, but I would ask that we do not call it a pamphlet when we started discussing this point by saying that it is about democratic debate and that disagreement is also part of a democratic debate. I feel that the tone of the letter is quite moderate by finishing it in the morning and not just yesterday during an emergency meeting. In my opinion, there are positive elements in the motion for a change in the Rules of Procedure, on which there is undoubtedly either a full agreement or a strong majority agreement, but I would recommend that we go back to that, preferably by withdrawing the proposal, so that we do not have to revote the President, and say, if what we agree today is the maximum for this parliamentary term, that can happen, then let us throw everything else out and leave it in the 90s. Because we are genuinely afraid, and I say it openly, of what will still be invented during the second reading. And it is one of those types of laws that the opposition, if not satisfied and is afraid of amendments that will sound when they are voted on, can effectively hold on to the third reading of weeks and months. And I don't think it's necessary. And now for the hard work we're doing. And let's be honest again. At least a little bit. I have the statistics we got at the club at the beginning of this week, so it's not the beginning of the meeting. We had no agreement between 110 and 115 laws at first, second and third readings. When I look at it today, the government lacks about three or four laws at first reading and two or three at second reading. And all the others are ready to vote at third reading. So in the words of six, maybe if I overreacted, I missed something, in ten government bills after a year and a half of the functioning of the Chamber of Deputies is not yet in the third reading. There is no other bill. But yesterday, the Prime Minister, and today someone has repeated this - the really sincere concern for the opposition proposals, which are about 80, with which there is 75 times the negative position of the government, and we can very precisely estimate how they will turn out in the vote, and say that, for example, we cannot discuss something at an emergency meeting, because there are these 80 opposition laws that we are going to fight against, so in your opinion, it is legitimate, no better life in our country if they are not adopted. So talk about the six laws from the government that aren't before the third reading, and that's no delay in a year and a half. Believe it or not, there have been no obstructions in this parliamentary term. Of course, if someone is lucky to be more equal to equals, then it can be argued that there are also parliamentary proposals among government proposals, like now, the next law at first reading is government and, by chance, 347 House press came in and by chance, the President. And we have the House press here, and it doesn't matter which opposition parties have the number 152, 156 and so on. So if we want to meet the opposition at least a little bit, and I am on the first Tuesday, on the first Gremium asked for one afternoon so that each opposition club can establish one bill that will be discussed - there is no time for that, we were told. There's no time. So you have six unnegotiated, and you want to make it more efficient and faster, but there's nothing to do, and there's 80 or 85 of our opposition proposals that we want to keep our electoral promises to our constituents, and we're implementing our electoral agenda, and you can't even let us discuss them. I'll take that as a fact. But then you can't honestly worry that we have so many unnegotiated points, because those are our points against which you will vote. [[13.10 hours]] So much for the bill. I would really recommend a withdrawal, otherwise we are ready to vote in favour of a re-evaluation, and we are ready to continue to cooperate on this. And I'm saying, if there are controversial points, we'd better get them out of it, design it in the '90s, make sure everyone's sure something doesn't happen there. I understand the club presidents that they cannot guarantee that there will be no amendment, and they cannot guarantee how the vote will turn out. It just doesn't go according to the Constitution. So if we want to avoid these dangers and fears, let's create a text that will sign one or at least seven clubs for each club, I don't know which, and let's put it in 90. Then it makes sense, and then it's changes that have a chance of success. And I always ask - because many of us, I say of us, not just of you, are talking about making the work of the House more effective - how we measure it, if work is effective. By counting the points discussed? By the number of laws passed? By counting the repeated amendments to the laws we've already adopted? I just don't know. For us, the efficiency measure is very simple - to adopt quality laws that need not be corrected immediately. And I've had my third term here, so I'm going to talk about all three parliamentary periods, even the one in which I was a government MP, when ministers stood here at third reading, or in a Senate return, they admitted that the opposition or the Senate were right, but they asked for the approval of the bill, and they immediately started working on the amendment. In all three parliamentary periods, in all four governments, or five governments that we have had here during these three parliamentary periods. That's not efficiency. So please, next time we talk about efficiency... I understand that when we have three-year-old news that nobody cares that we can discuss it. On the proposal of Mr Votava, on the State Final Account. I don't think we have to change the law. All you have to do is make a political agreement on the Gremium and follow that agreement. And then when one of the ministers comes running in and says he needs to put something in gear and move it forward, say no to him. Here's the state's final account. We agreed on it. When we discuss it, the next point could be the acute one that burns the minister. We really don't have to change the law. We are prepared for this because, to be honest, the opposition does not want to argue in detail about the results of the management of the previous year. There was another government. Nobody cares anymore. There were other trends, different economic situations. No one remembers. So this thing is purely formal. I mean, take what's going on now. We have budget chapters from 2017. We just had a budget committee on the election committee. We have a trial schedule, and it's right here. So I think that's enough... And the proposal is rational. I just think that we don't have to change the law to him and that he can make some kind of political deal. This is true of many other ideas that have fallen here today in the general debate that this agreement can be adapted without amending the law. And I'm giving it some thought. If a government or a government majority wants to accept any restriction on the rights of the opposition, for example, consider the possibility that an emergency meeting programme is not to be voted on. It is clear that the Government's majority will not vote for the proposed resolution or for the opposition proposal. But it would help me as head of the club. You're saying I have priority rights, that I have the privilege. But I also have a duty when others cannot, alone with the party chair, represent the party on all issues that I may not even be professionally engaged in, and I cannot, when I look at them, in the Security, Defence, Health, Social Committee, the Committee on the Environment, so I actually have to convey their views. The result of the vote is probably the same. And I think it would help everyone. It's a matter for discussion and reflection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u73	Thank you, too. Before we go any further, I'll introduce you to a note. Mr Kobza apologizes to us from 12.45 until the end of the meeting day due to the working session. And there is, with a factual remark, Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, towards Mr Stanjur by your means. Then you know what happens with the deals. It's just a joke. And it's a joke when it's directly stated in the law, because - and now I'm speaking as a government MP - sometimes it's convenient for someone to discuss it, sometimes it's not appropriate for somebody. So then what's the deal? None.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u75	Thank you. That was a factual point. At this point, I do not have any further factual remarks or applications for debate. It also seems that no one is reporting from the point of view of the debate, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u76	Thank you for the floor. I didn't specifically take notes to respond to all the contributions. In general, I want to thank you for all the speeches in the second half of today's debate. First, perhaps a few brief responses to Mr. Stanjura after all. I remember those six days, six nights as a spectator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u77	Mr President, I will interrupt you and ask for more peace. I can't hear you. I would really like to ask colleagues who may be leaving to do so quietly. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u78	And I only have one thing for that. I didn't understand it as a citizen. I just didn't get it. I think most of the citizens of the Republic didn't know why it lasted six days if it turned out the same way. And it's a thing that just happens outside these walls that somehow this thing is being dealt with politically here. I fully respect the fact that these clubs represent almost two million voters, and I am therefore trying to stress with my actions that respect may be of the main values of our mutual behavior. On the other hand, the right to speak for two million also brings responsibility for two million. So I was unpleasantly surprised that in a situation where, through the President, you had information about how the meeting came about, that you did not tell your colleagues. So we could forgive ourselves for creating that letter. Let's face it, you didn't know the Prime Minister wouldn't be here. I didn't know either. And we talked about it ten days in advance. And I wouldn't go back to that. From Marek Benda's mouth, it was said here that the proposal was not entirely mature, that it should return to work. I'm afraid it won't be more mature. I can't imagine that he would be more mature, because the working group met honestly, she said three times that we wouldn't extend the debate. Everyone had the right to say what they didn't want. And so it did. And on what's being presented today, we agreed, whatever the comment is. I've got the minutes from the meetings, and I've got copies of the e-mails. I can imagine that it would come back and that the debate participants would probably be more charged with arguments from their clubs right now, because they agreed to it back then. For example, when I look at the presentation, we met on March 1, 2018, apologized was only STAN and KDU-ČSL, the others were there. At the time, as far as the veto is concerned. On the veto proposal, the parties agreed on the wording of the correction: two or more members may object, provided that the number of members corresponds to the number of Members, which is set out in the basic constitution of twenty, forty, fifty. Among the present, it was said that discussions on the number of Members should remain open, in particular, to Sections 90 and 91 - exceptional time limits for discussion at a short time. A month later, on 26 April, where also colleague Benda was present, so I can only read here, Radek Vondráček continued in the list of proposals first by rationalising the regulation of procedural veto objections by uniting the power of veto, and further by adjusting the possibility of the Parliamentary Commission's parity clause. There was also consensus on these proposals. In essence, I also agree with President Stanjura that this may not even change in this composition, that it does not have a major impact, because mostly the ODS joins the veto and it has enough members to have enough veto Members. As an example, I can say, for example, the vote on Mrs Rutová's new item on Wednesday, when three clubs joined, was perfectly managed. This is about some proportionality and balance. Absolutely all agreed on an extension for the third reading. [[13.20 hours]] And thank you for adding a new argument, why do we actually have it in the Rules of Procedure, that the then government coalition basically strangled the flow of the first, second, third reading and limited the third reading. And on that narrow point, the Rules of Procedure are vulnerable, as they showed us in particular during the previous parliamentary term of TOP 09, which openly declared that they will never, ever, ever, ever let go of the EET law and delay. And within those few hours, they have the opportunity, which is already the protection of minority rights, but already interfering at all with the basic principle of functioning, when, in turn, the majority must be allowed some space to enforce their proposals. That means... I still made a note for an emergency meeting. It's a debate. We can discuss, for example, that an extraordinary meeting would have a different structure for the debate at all, that there would be time limits or that there would be an exact hour and time for the vote, because, on the other hand, the immediate release of extraordinary meetings means that the opposition of 40 members would be able to block the House overall, because there would only be extraordinary meetings. The same thing a fellow pirate said that sometimes there are problem-free points, here again I agree with Mr Stanjura, the problem-free may become a problem, because he is followed by somewhere where there is a political conflict, and any hour of debate may come in handy by a party that takes a stand. That means the debate is open. I think I have put forward a good basis for this debate. This is where it immediately becomes politics, the debate is more intense than it was on the task force, but we can't avoid that. So please release the debate to second reading. I wouldn't even resist extending the deadline. I wouldn't mind. So let's talk about what we want to do about it. We have completely agreed that third readings are essentially non-systemic restrictions within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. Veta didn't run into a problem until now in the House, and I think it's more rhetoric. Here, I can read you from the record. Marek Benda, last but not least, expressed support for the proposal to address the problem of inefficient reporting. On that, we all agreed that some reports are completely unnecessary, and here the proposal is for all of us. This is not for the opposition or for the government coalition, because there is a clear right and the possibility of a minority blocking the fact that an important report should be discussed only in committee. The protection of a minority there is conceived, I think, well. I would like to say here optimistically that I am looking forward to a constructive debate both in committees and in plenary. The debate in plenary is simply different. We demonstrated this very clearly today. I believe that the committees can be much more rational, and we will see how the vote goes. I thank you all who vote in favour in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u79	Thank you for the final word. Before giving the floor another final word, Prime Minister Kalousek came forward with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u80	Mr President, I cannot fail to respond to your words through Mr President, as you look forward to a constructive debate. How constructive would it be if you put forward a change to the Rules of Procedure, which you know are completely unacceptable for a number of opposition clubs? I am not saying that everything is wrong or unacceptable or that there are not many things that we can agree on, but I have never experienced in the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, so that there are several mines that the petitioner necessarily knew could not agree with them because they restrict their rights. If you really want a constructive debate - and we are applying to it, we will vote on a proposal to recast - please support this proposal. We can calmly, without time stress in your office discuss what will be really good for everyone and really acceptable for everyone, and then we can vote this consensus here at first reading. But that is not how constructive debates are started.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u81	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u82	Thank you. It sounds very positive, constructive, but there's a catch in it again. The group met in January, February, March, April 2018. The proposal itself has been here since December 2018. We're gonna go back to my office, we're gonna talk, and we're gonna go back to exactly the same point we're at right now. I have the minutes at my disposal. There were also representatives of your clubs. And I just read the memo that none of the people in attendance had a problem, didn't object to the topics that are here today. If Mr Kalousek says there are some fundamental points that he does not agree with, let us be specific. Which ones are they? Is it the procedural veto? Because according to the entry that I sent out again and which had the opportunity to influence and modify all members of the working group, this is his final form, all of which are documents, and that was not the problem at the time. It's just that the debate here is different than in my office. It's a bigger policy here. So let's go into politics, and then let's reject it. Then it won't pass at all. That's the outcome of the debate. And I say this is the lab. I'm not clinging to it because it's not just my work. I took the results of the debate, and I turned to the legislative department or the relevant legislation, and they wrote those sections. That means some of the ideas in the proposal aren't mine. It's probably my professional fault that I didn't get it on those signatures, that I made my life easier by signing it myself and filing it myself, because I think I'd get the signatures. Now I'm gonna cry for nothing over spilled milk. So once again, I'm asking for second reading support. Let's see how much this center is going to escalate and see how the vote goes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u83	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u84	Thank you for the floor. I think we should always ask ourselves the first question about each law - is that law necessary? Is he dealing with something that is a problem and what is necessary as quickly as possible, by issuing another regulation, other complications of the rule of law, by abolishing the rules that have been passed, by abolishing the rules of habit, what needs to be changed? And over this bill proposal, the answer to all these questions is - no. Because he doesn't need the proposal at all. Because if you look, the third reading - the extension of the clock - and I repeat it, this week we had two hours for the third reading and just the third reading wasn't what we were discussing. So why do we need to extend them by another hour, when we are not using it today - the space is quite sufficient -? Make interpelation more attractive. It's that simple. Then let the Prime Minister and ministers come and be attractive. We'll watch. Speaking into a wall to absent ministers, it's really not very attractive. But again, there is no need to amend the Rules of Procedure. It really, of all the things that are being proposed to change there, the only thing that seems to make sense of it - for the majority that is here now - is to limit the rights of the opposition. Don't do this. Please don't do this. You have the strength. Of course. You've got most of it here. You guys are gonna beat this place like you're gonna beat the media council in a secret election. Here you'll be rolling in the fact that it will be a coalition, KSČM, YES and social democracy, or the SPD will join, because it somehow trades for some posts. You just have the strength. But you trample on democracy because the quality of democracy is recognised as the quality of society by the way it treats the weaker at that moment. And you feel like we can get in your way someday, so you're gonna preemptively destroy us in advance? That's not good. That is not reasonable and that is not democratic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u85	Thank you. Those are all the priority rights I have marked at the moment. I beg the rapporteur, Benda, if he is interested in the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u86	I'm not talking till 2:00. I've got two hours of visitors waiting for me that I've been ordered, not knowing it's gonna be like this. I'll just pick it up. If he had not gone over the proposal to return the applicant to work in the general debate, he said, if I am not mistaken, Mr Farský, I will follow up on what the President said. I recommend that we extend the deadline for 20 days, respectively. If the President agrees, 30 days to make it clear we're not gonna be able to make it till the holidays, so we've got some free time for the holidays. And in addition to the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee, I would recommend that we order the Committee on Budgets from the point of view of what Mr Votava said and where, therefore, the state's final accounts and budgets are not too much to judge, so that... [[13.30 hours]] And given what has been said here from the Committee on European Affairs, virtually. from getting them, and I think that there is a bit of a mistake here, because these reports are really processed so that even a minority can force their discussion, but if there is such a problem in European affairs, I recommend that we order the committee on European affairs to discuss it, so that they may look there, as who and under what circumstances is included in plenary, if it was mentioned here that it was just a decision by the committee chair, which I do not think is, certainly, a vote by the committee as a whole. But if the opposition also does not have, if any minority is not to be able to get a point at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies that has been discussed by the European Committee. So much for my final word. We have here one motion for a vote, that's the return to recast, and then, if necessary, the vote on the commandment and the extension of the deadline.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u87	Thank you, rapporteur. I have noted your proposals, but the proposal to extend the deadline should be heard in the debate. At least this is where the president tells me. So, in that case, we need to reopen the debate. It is possible to do so by voting for the House, as we have already done here today, or someone with priority rights will perform. I think it'll be easier if we vote for it. The Minister will speak with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u88	Have a good day and I am reopening the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u89	Thank you for reopening the debate. Mr Benda is now reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u90	I think I only understand this interpretation of the Rules of Procedure very moderately, and I do not know who brings it to us, that we cannot propose an extension of the time limit outside the debate, but we can propose a commandment to the Committee outside the debate. But okay. That's what's going on. I suggest we extend the deadline by 30 days. The appellant agrees with this proposal. And I suggest that we then order, in addition to the Guarantee Committee, the Constitutional Committee, the Budget Committee and the Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u91	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u92	I'm just here for the record. For the appellant, I agree to extend the deadline by 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u93	Yes. Thank you. That will be all in the debate. If no one else is reporting, I will conclude the debate again. I don't know if it's time for the final words again. Anyone interested? It's not. In that case, we will now have a vote. I see an application for a check-out. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your cards again. I'm gonna call my colleagues to the ballroom, and when the number of entries is settled, we're gonna vote. I think he's already... Not yet... Looks like we're all here. So if I have noted this well, we will be the first to vote on the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 136, 132 Members and Members are registered, for 70, against 55. The proposal was adopted and the House press is returning to the recast. If there's a request for conversion...? Mr. Chairman. Okay. Before I fully conclude the results, Mrs Aulická apologizes to us from 13.30 to the end of the day for family reasons. Mr. MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u94	Mr President, I am sorry, I am questioning the vote. I'm stuck in the junk, and I voted no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u95	Do you have a delay and you voted against it? But that doesn't change the outcome of the vote. However, if you question the functionality of the device. [[The answer's off the microphone.]] I would like to hear precisely on the microphone that the Member is questioning the electronic record and whether we should repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u96	My voting device didn't work, so I got held up because I was pushing and I couldn't do it. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-011-036.u97	The Member does not question the vote, so in that case it has been returned for revision, and that is the end of this item. Thank you. We still have a little bit of time, so next up, there's a point number 37, which is
