ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u1	1. Draft Act on the Processing of Personal Data / House Print 138/14/ - returned to the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and we received its resolution as House press 138/15. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Anna Hubáčková among us and ask that Jan Hamáček, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior, speak on behalf of the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Vice-President of the Government. [[Mr Michálek, who is standing at the chair and speaking with a member of the government.]] Mr. Club Chairman... First of all, the Minister of the Interior and the Deputy Prime Minister - for the plaintiffs' comments on the House's amendments. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] I shall ask the House once more for peace. Colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing a proposal concerning personal data. If you are discussing another subject, please let the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior speak his word. Thank you. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u2	Thank you, too. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, let me briefly comment on the draft law on the processing of personal data, which has been returned by the Senate with amendments. The main change proposed by the Senate is the abolition of fines for infringements of personal data processing obligations for public authorities, i.e. public authorities and local authorities. In this context, I would like to remind you that the Chamber of Deputies discussed various approaches to fines in previous stages of the legislative process and supported the setting of a very low limit on fines for small and medium-sized municipalities. On the other hand, the Senate proposal makes full use of the possibility offered by the General Data Protection Regulation, namely not to impose fines on public authorities at all. Although, in general, it is not desirable to adopt standards whose infringement is not sanctioned by appropriate sanctions, the Senate's proposed amendment appears justified in view of the nature and extent of the changes brought about by the new European rules on personal data protection. From the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, it can therefore be accepted that, in the coming period, the public administration will be led to carry out its duties by subjecting it to the control activities of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data and, at the same time, the threat that data subjects will, if necessary, be subject to judicial enforcement. The Ministry of the Interior will therefore carefully monitor how the new legislation and its application is reflected in practice. And if it were to prove inadequate, it would be possible to reintroduce administrative fines against the public sector as well. [[15.50 hours]] For the reasons that I have now described to you, I would like to recommend that the present draft law on the processing of personal data, as approved by the Senate, be approved. The Senate also proposes to delete an amendment to the Office for Personal Data Protection in the area of the right to information and with the consequences of this step, I would like to inform you in the context of press consultation 139, i.e. the amendment law. At this point, I will state that releasing the regulation of the relevant powers of the Office for Personal Data Protection should not, in the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior, jeopardise the functioning of the amendment to the Act on Free Access to Information contained in the Chambers of the Press 139. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, for his opening words and observations on the Senate's amendments. I will now ask the senator, Mrs Anna Hubáčková, to present us with a hearing in the Senate. Senator, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u4	Thank you. Mr President, I wish you a good day. I wish you good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I also thank the Minister for his opening words from the position of the Ministry of the Interior on the proposals that the senát is submitting to you. Allow me briefly to use this time to defend the Senate proposal. Indeed, the Senate proposal concerns, above all, the exclusion of everything that came into the law as in the quotation marks of the sticker. This means everything concerning the amendment to Act 106, not 101. The European Directive wants us to transpose the Data Protection Act, and suddenly we do not use the possibility of making a law for citizens and for all simple, understandable and transparent, simply Act 101 and everything related to the law and the protection of personal data. We took the liberty of introducing an amendment to Act 106, which is nota bene almost ready for discussion by the Ministry of the Interior. So this is the main bearing issue - transparency of laws. Let us make a simple, transparent and understandable law on the protection of personal data 101, and then let us focus on all the changes that we could make in terms of both procedural and possible authorities and competences in terms of law 101. Even this standard will be transparent, clear and simple for all users, both for applicants and for officials, judges, just for all citizens. The second amendment that the Senate brings is in the area of fines, where it proposes to use the possibility to make use of the exception not to fine authorities - self-governing bodies. So much in brief, that's all I want to keep you. I just want to appeal again: let's try to make the law simple and transparent without stickers. I beg you to support the Senate's proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u5	Thank you, Senator Anna Hubáčková. Now I will ask the rapporteurs, first of all, for the guarantee committee of Mr Marek Benda, Leo Luzar, Jiří Běhounek, Jiří Bláha, Patrik Nacher and Martin Kupka, if they wish to comment. The rapporteur, Marek Benda, wants to comment. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a difficult situation here, because the Senate has returned a bill which has been extremely difficult, and its discussion in the House has been extremely difficult. The records you see on me, that's just the House press 138, and I didn't even bring them here to make sure I didn't scare you too much about what's going on in front of us. However, the Senate has returned, in addition to some technical changes, which I would say are irrelevant in nature, with two major changes. I'd like to comment on both of them. The first amendment concerns the total exemption of fines for local authorities. You know that I have repeatedly said here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies since this counter that I fundamentally disagree with this, that I think that if we are unable to reduce fines for private entities, I consider it unfair that public bodies and self-government and their established organisations should not be subject to fines. At the same time, it must be said that the text adopted by the Chamber of Deputies by some difficult votes is perhaps the weirdest one to come up with. Fines only limited and limited to a limited range of first and second-degree municipalities and organisations established by them regardless of how large the organisation is, what extent it has. It could be totally unfair. If we leaned towards the Senate version, and the Minister leaned towards it, and I understand that the pressure of the public administration - we all experienced it in this hall as it was running repeatedly: remove everything - it is quite large, so I think it would have to be for some transitional time that we would have to say: well, we will leave for the public administration some running season and then we must return to uniform fines for all public authorities, regardless of whether they are smaller or larger, because I will honestly admit that the division that finally won the Chamber of Deputies says: smaller, only limited fines, larger have unlimited fines, seems very strange to me. The second thing that the Senate is returning to us, other things are really rather technical in nature, is the exclusion of the information order that came into this House's resolution until the plenary vote of the Chamber of Deputies, which has never been recommended before, the Constitutional Committee has not delivered an opinion on it, nor has it given recommendations or recommendations in the final vote. On the one hand, we agree, I think most of us, with the idea that it would be reasonable for something like an information order to exist. On the other hand, even after long discussions with the Ministry of the Interior, it seemed quite inappropriate and unbearable to us such a fundamental breakthrough in public administration and its functioning to formulate an amendment that will sound on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and is approved at third reading without any idea of what its implications are or are not. These are the reasons why the vast majority of our club seems to be leaning towards supporting the Senate version. I admit that, for my fundamental reasons, I cannot vote in favour of the restriction of fines on public entities, because even if it would be an exemption only for a year, it seems to me that this is not right. But the Senate gives us no choice but to vote in favour of its version with total exclusion, where I am sorry that they have not put at least some limited fines or for the version of the Chamber of Deputies, I have talked about these problems. So much for me as a newsletter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Marek Benda. I note the withdrawal of Mr Roman Onderka's apology is present. Let's keep going. Does Leo Luzar want to comment? He's not interested. Member Jiří Běhounek? He's not interested. Ambassador Jiří Bláha? Mr rapporteur, are you interested in commenting? It's not like that. Mr Patrik Nacher? He's not interested. My colleague Martin Kupka as rapporteur? It is interested in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Before I give you my word, I will ask the House again for peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u8	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, some time ago, supported the amendment of the law, which also brought significant relief to public authorities, extended the group more significantly against the outcome of the Chamber of Deputies. It extended the group, which would have a very limited penalty to CZK 5,000, to all the local authorities and their contribution organisations. In this regard, it can be said that the Senate proposal is closer to the amendment which was supported by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I just wanted to draw attention to this proximity because it can affect your opinion when voting on the Senate form of the modified proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u9	I thank the rapporteur Martin Kupek. I'm opening a debate that I don't have a written application for, but I see an application from the point of view. Mr Profant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the public, I wish you a pleasant afternoon. I think the Senate version is completely pointless. I mean, we can't impose fines here based on the turnover of private entities and then ignore the public administration. We're going back to the same cases that were heard here at three readings when it went through the House. Are we not going to fine, for example, the capital of Prague when it publishes a database of millions of its inhabitants or something? We have municipalities and public authorities that run huge databases, where there is a huge amount of personal data. And this regulation is precisely to protect such data, to clearly define how it works with them, from basic methodologies, as stored in your office, to administrative procedures and so on. The Senate is suggesting that we again make a supreme view here that the public administration is allowed to do anything while every businessman, businessman, and similarly receive fines for any minor misconduct? I mean, that's completely nonsense. I don't understand how anyone can vote for this disproportion. This completely violates the principle of equality before the law. And I think that if this is approved in this text, it will still be a problem, because already the Legislative Council of the Government, as I quoted here in my previous speech at third reading, has made it very clear that even if it is only a reduction in fines, it is on the verge of constitutionality, because there is simply no respect for the principle of equality before the law. So I really wouldn't recommend that we vote in favour of this version. And if colleagues in the Senate wanted to make it easier for public administration, they should have come up with a quality mechanism, or some way to put a stop to it, to limit it, like we did in the House, which I think was a reasonable compromise, which is why we voted for him as pirát, rather than an exclusion. That's really the principle of a bulldozer. And completely unnecessary - and I think that it will be unconstitutional and that it will eventually be challenged by the Constitutional Court, because equality before the law is not respected there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u11	Thank you. The appearance of my colleague Profant raised two factual points. Mr. Václav Klaus' first remark, then Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u12	I would react, for which factual remarks are intended, that is the response to my previous speakers. To my colleague, Profant, through you. Imagine there are people who don't want any GDPR at all. Not at all. We consider this to be a completely pointless, bad move that regulates other things that have not been regulated so far, thwarting schools, hospitals, private entrepreneurs, everyone. So for that reason, we'll at least support where anybody can get as much relief as possible so that it doesn't fall on him. So don't tell me what nonsense is or isn't. We just don't see it that way. You want more GDPR bullshit. We don't want them, so at least we want to make it easier. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u13	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is now also making a point of fact. A colleague Petr Pávek will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u14	I would also like to respond to the previous performance of my colleague on the pirate side. He says we break equality before the law. Well, look at the regulations. So fight the order. The regulation does not allow private operators to reduce fines. That upsets us, but there's nothing we can do about it. It's not our decision. We only use the space, within the very limited space we have. The debate would be legitimate if we had that space for all subjects and decided to relieve the public administration and not the private sector. I understand that. But it's just not like that. So please do not argue inequality before the law and unconstitutionality, because the Czech Parliament has not adopted the regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Petr Pávek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have seen my speech several times as a criticism of the proposal submitted, as it then passed in the House version. I think that the Senate version is better, that it really makes it easier where it can. I would also like to make a short reply to my colleague Profant through the President. You know, the law isn't just about protecting personal data. He's about protecting against personal data trading. And that's the fundamental difference in understanding how it happens here. It is very unlikely, even in the event of a crisis, that the data will escape from some self-government, so it is wrong, it is unfortunate and it will certainly lead to some consequences, but it is very unlikely that the authorities should trade ambition with our data, which is what was actually the result of the European Union regulation. That means the regulation is designed not to deal with our personal data. So it was going against the big corporations that made it into a billion-dollar business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marek the Výborný, then Leo Luzar and Marian Jurečka. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u18	Thanks for the word. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister, Senator, fellow Members. Only through you to what was said here by my colleague Profant. The directive allows us, of course, to follow this path chosen by the Senate, or in this sense, I would not suspect the Senate from any unconstitutional steps, notabene, when we know that it works in some countries of the European Union. Austria is a classic example. They went this way. Thus, the path chosen by the Senate is a path that is very convenient to cities and municipalities. And one more thing. If, my colleague, Prague publishes your data, then sue her. It's very simple. I think that's where you can get redress. You don't need sanctions under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, also with a factual remark. Marian Jurečka will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. By your means, Mr President, I will follow up on my colleague Pávek, who has clearly declared here what the original idea of GDPR within the European Parliament was all about. Yes, it was to prevent trading, massive trafficking in citizens' data. And now it doesn't matter if it's image data or databases or anything. But why we are expressing our views on this proposal - and we have already expressed a negative opinion on the parliamentary version, so now also on the Senate - is that there is one huge exception in the whole proposal of the Czech application law GDPR. And the exception remained for the media. It remained for authors and media, who have an absolute exception to this law, as if it did not happen that they were leaking data, as if it did not happen that the personal data of citizens from these media, which are collected, and we do not even know that they are collected, we will not even know that they are collected. And it was even rejected to adopt a code of ethics that would oblige this media to at least inform, or to know, that they are dealing with these personal data of citizens who collect massively every day to know about them and record them as to how this law would impose on them to deal with these sensitive data of citizens. Even that was rejected. [[16.10 hours]] Thus, this absolute exception that is given, and today we are experiencing similar issues concerning the leak, which lead us to reject both proposals because it is an unjustified exception to the protection of personal data. And we fear that the personal data trade also outweighs the fact that it protects citizens' data in these media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marian Jurečka's point of view. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u22	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, members of the government, I would like to follow up on what my colleague Profant has said here in his contribution, because it seems to me that at that moment, if I had agreed to this, I would have accepted logic as an entrepreneur, or as a mayor or a representative of the public sphere, by following the law more or less according to the threat of sanctions. I'm a philosophy like that, I confess, I never did. She's kind of interesting, maybe she's a little pirate, but I always felt like when I was a businessman for 11 years, or when I was a minister for four years, it's just that once the law imposes something on me, he says, so I just keep it and I try to keep it, and I don't think about the optics, whether or not I'm in danger of sanctioning it. And we here, after we have failed to make some proposals in the House, have returned from the Senate a version that allows us the legislators of the Czech Republic within the limits of the European Commission's directive to say: We may not be more papal than the Pope here one day and we do not have to demand a penalty. We assume they can do it, and as my colleague here said, Výborný, they will do it, but if you're unhappy, you can still sue for the official's procedure. So I don't see why we couldn't allow us to be open here one day, let's say, to have a fair approach to self-government, just as our colleagues and colleagues from the Senate suggest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Martin Kupka and then Mr Václav Klaus, also with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u24	I can still respond to my colleague Profant's comment. I certainly wouldn't want this to lead to someone interpreting a Senate proposal so that the authorities would put themselves in a position of authority. The exemption from sanctions does not mean that the public administration will not comply with the law at that time. In many other countries of the world, there is also public administration, and public authorities are exempt from sanctions, because it means just spilling money. But it certainly doesn't mean that an official, one who may have committed a violation of the law, would not have been sanctioned, or would have been freed from any penalty or punishment by his superior. In this regard, I also believe that we should not be more papal than the Pope, that we should take advantage of the possibility of mitigating the effects of GDPR where possible. And this is a specific case where public authorities must, of course, ensure that they treat personal data with carelessness. This, in my view, is the only essential and positive element of GDPR, so that personal data is actually treated with due seriousness and diligence, so that they do not become freely subject to any treatment or even trading. That's where we're supposed to be heading, but we're not supposed to connect a whole series with that, for example. draconian sanctions that no one would probably ever impose, because sanctions that are pointlessly high are inherently unconstitutional. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Václav Klaus's point of view now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u26	I'll take the liberty of summing up a little debate. I said how I'm gonna vote and why. However, I cannot help but notice the feeling that I have that we are discussing again something that the citizens of the Czech Republic do not want. That's the European Union's regulation, that's what flew in here, and we're just desperately looking for a way to ease it a little bit, and we're having a little fight about it. I'm sorry, it reminds me, we're like the Jewish committee when they told us to send a transport, and we're just as determined not to send the sick women, they'll be on the next train. But otherwise, we do what they tell us to do. I have these feelings horrible because here 57 percent of the laws are the regulations of the European Union, where we as sheep raise our hand for it and, in some form, pass it on to Czech citizens. So if you don't mind, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I also have Mr Ferjenčík on behalf of Mr Ferjenčík as duly signed up for the debate. But I have two more factual points: Mr Jurečka and Mr Dolínek, with factual remarks. Now, then, Mr Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u28	I would like to ask a fellow Member, Mr Václav Klaus, younger by your means, Mr President, although I understand his indignation on this matter, but I do not find it appropriate to weigh the proportions that he will use, because I think it is here to use the terms of the Second World War, the Holocaust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Petr Dolínek, with a point of fact. Then a colleague of Holomčík and then Vice-President Petr Fiala. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u30	Mr President, fellow Members, I wanted to say what my previous speaker said and also that the European Union, Mr Klaus, through the President, is not something in itself. This is a meeting of ministers, this is the European Commission, this is the European Parliament, it is tens and hundreds of hours of negotiations. Just because you don't like it in person doesn't mean you can dehonest it in the way you dare. I think it's insulting, and I think it's pointless. It's really a process that's had a very qualified discussion, and you're trying to make people who defend the rights of some citizens, punters, or people who just want to hurt somebody. And I think it's exactly the opposite. Your vision of the world is simply a vision of the world, through Mr President, which is incompatible with mine. And I'm very glad you're a minority in this population.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague Holomčík checked out. Now Vice-President Fiala has made a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not comment on the substance of the matter, but, on behalf of the Civil Democratic Party, I apologise for the analogy that my colleague Václav Klaus used inappropriately here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u33	Thank you. A colleague, Václav Klaus, is reporting with a point of fact. Mr Václav Klaus with a factual remark, then Mr Ferjenčík with a proper application. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u34	I merely took the liberty of pointing out that over 57 percent of the laws we adopt and deliver to citizens do not arise from our will, by the will of Czech citizens, but are delivered to us and we only automatically overrule them here. It seems to me that it is simply the loss of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, I do not like it in a fundamental way! The analogy may have been harsh, but it sits at the core. There's nothing we can do about it, we have to approve anyway. Otherwise, we're in danger of fines, etc. If we had voted independently, I believe that there would be no GDPR and that there would not be a hundred Members voting for it, nor would anyone have thought of it. And that's one law after another that we have here, a European warrant, this, that, that, day after day. Do the math on purpose. I've had it counted once before by the Parliamentary Institute; It's over 50 percent. So we're losing control of this land, and some are still cheering about it. And when someone criticizes it, whether it's appropriate or inappropriate, they yell at him here. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague Ferjenčík will wait. We have another factual point, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, then Petr Gazdík, then Marian Jurečka. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the members of the European Committee to explain to our colleague Václav Klaus Jr. how European documents are discussed in this committee. We are the ones who are at the beginning of these documents. We're involved in what they look like at the final stage. I would like someone from the European Committee to explain this to my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr. Petr Gazdík now. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u38	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would like, through you, Mr President, to call on Mr Václav Klaus Jr. to actually study what we approve and disapprove of here. I would very much like us to merely transpose European directives. But who is studying this when it is written by the EU, knows very well that many things, sometimes more than half, are being added by our ministers' officials, or it will become something completely different from the transposition of the European directive. That's one thing. Second thing. Mr Klaus has left the school committee, and I would like to call on him, through the President, to really apologize for the inappropriate analogy, as his President has done, whom I very much appreciate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marian Jurečka, another factual point. Then Mr Petr Pávek. Then Mrs Jana Černochová. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u40	Thank you. It is a pity that a colleague and Member Václav Klaus Jr. has already left the Chamber at this moment, because I would like to state clearly some facts, if any, here, if the public is watching. Because I know from my personal experience that it is not that some evil Brusel dictates something to us, but through the Council of Ministers, where the ministers of individual Member States go. And if we're talking about GDPR, let's ask what our Home Secretary was doing four, five years ago, when this matter was definitely discussed at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. What was his position? If he had any comments. Did he have any suggestions for change or anything? Then there is the European Commission, which also dealt with the proposal. We're gonna nominate for that, too. The European Parliament subsequently confirms the composition of this Commission. They are not unelected people who do not have a mandate. And then it is the European Parliament. Let us look at the vote by our MEPs and what amendments they have tabled. As they may have tried to influence this legislation here. First of all, for the public, or for the one sitting here on the balcony, I want to set the facts straight, because saying that bad Brusel dictates something to us here, and we have to, is simply an incredible downside, the alibi of some politicians who - in quotes - have their own truth, do not see objective legislation and its process, how it is set up and how we can influence it if we want to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Petr Pávek now. A colleague of mine, Černochová, then Marek Benda, will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you also have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. My previous speakers said almost everything. I wanted to stress that, before each European directive or European regulation is adopted, there are mostly years of negotiating and arguing on the ground of the European Parliament, the European Commission. Our representatives from the ministries are driving there, and if they bring in, if there is a directive or regulation of the European Council that we do not identify with, it is probably because our representatives and ambassadors and ambassadors did not do their job there. That's the first thing. Then you know how this process works. I have already described here several times that the directive or regulation is transferred to the Czech Republic for implementation or transposition. Here we go again to the Ministry of Resorts. A year and a half sits on it and doesn't do anything. And at the last minute, the stickers with which it is sent to Parliament into the legislative process. Our practice is ruthless and very often out of sensible directives or regulations then comes up with pasquillas, which we bother not only our legal order, but above all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My dear colleagues, some of my fellow Members, if what Mrs Gajdůškovášková was saying was true, we would not be trapped, for example, with the disarmament directive that they have already presented to us, already agreed. Even our fellow Members of the European Parliament did not let or read the amendments they had on this directive. We are not lying to ourselves here because you cannot say with one breath, ČSSD representatives, that your Minister of the Interior Chovanec did his best in Brussels when he did nothing and when this directive is the subject of a European lawsuit, which, by the way - yes, I should not be wronging the former Minister completely - was being brought to the European Court of Justice for him. But the process in Europe, in the European Union, when I take all the authorities that have been listed here, it was about us and without us! Let us really call things here, Mrs Gajdůškovášková through the Vice-President, as they are, and let us not paint any European reality a little more beautiful than it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u45	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová, for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marek Benda's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u46	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, things have gone a bit wrong here for an academic seminar on European directives, which, I agree, is important. Knowing what our Committee on European Affairs is doing, what the government is doing and so on, is useful. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that we are here at the stage of the European regulation, which unfortunately took a decision at the level of the European Commission, that it will be a regulation. We have repeatedly criticised this, and we have repeatedly discussed it here at first and second reading, how a major problem is created for all European states to apply precisely GDPR, the fact that it is a regulation that the European Commission has decided not to be a directive. Yes, of course, with the agreement of all our respective posted representatives, but of course there is also a bureaucratic apparatus that, through this form of enforcement, is increasingly regulation and increasingly less directives ensuring its future, ensuring its position. I think it's fair to say: they don't have such things as GDPR to go in the form of regulations. At best, this is a directive. And we've said it over and over again. Perhaps we could adopt an accompanying resolution on this that any minister who is in danger of having a European regulation in his area is obliged to come to the House, inform this House, so that we know in advance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Two more factual points - Mr Roman Onderka, then Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like through you only to Mrs Černochová, to an honored colleague. Mrs Gajdůškovášková has tried to explain how the legislative process within the European Union is taking place. She wanted to draw attention to the inappropriate analogy of your colleague Klaus. In fact, she wanted to say - perhaps a little more extensive and a little different from what I say - how social democracy perceives the European Union. It cannot be said that the European Union is a bunch of jerks who send us from Brussels what we are supposed to do because we are part of the European Union. If we say that, we say we're morons. This means, let us try to see the European Union as a matter that we have entered voluntarily. As a thing that can be an asset to Europe. And that does not mean that we have to agree with everything and that we will try to correct some things that appear to be disadvantageous for Europe or for the Czech Republic. [[no]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Dear Government, I think the idea that regulations should be reported here has its logic, but directives are usually such an ancestor. It starts with references and stuff. Then there is a directive that is implemented into national legislation, and then in time, sooner or later, in much of the cases the directive becomes a regulation. I think that these things need to be incorporated at that stage of the directive, but, of course, the regulation is then directly applicable legislation, so that makes sense. I just want to point out that it's never - or mostly - it's usually nothing that falls out of the blue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u51	I thank Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, and since I have made a point of fact, I will ask for a replacement in the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u52	With a factual remark, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I rarely agree with Mrs Černochová, but I have to give her absolutely the truth here. You know, it is not only possible to blindly subscribe to the fact that citizens voted for our participation in the EU in the referendum. This is reality and we have to deal with it, but sometimes the negotiations of our Chamber of Deputies remind us that we are unable to resist what is happening on the bureaucratic front in Brussels and elsewhere. Let us be clear that the only democratic body of Europe is the European Parliament, but it has neither the right to decide on the European Commission nor the legislative power, so here we come to the fact that all bureaucratic structures here have the right over citizens, and that is wrong, and this is the only demonstration. And I fundamentally disagree with what the current GDPR looks like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u54	Thank you. There's a debate... Sorry, there's still Mr. Bělobrádek with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u55	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Let's remember Rocco Buttiglione. He was grilled in the European Parliament so that he did not eventually become Commissioner. So, of course, the European Parliament speaks to who will be the Commissioner and who is not, and then there is also approval. It's probably like you said you weren't elected by anyone when you were elected by the Chamber of Deputies. So we have the rada here, and we have the European Parliament, which is barbecuing. So it's a little different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u56	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík is in the debate, Mr Profant will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I guess I'm the second in the debate. In the meantime, I attended a seminar here on standardisation in the EU. I would ask my colleagues to try it another way other than the actual remarks, because at a time when the factual comment is only responding to the factual point and not to the speech in the debate, so, I apologize, but you are getting ahead of yourself and it is not possible to normally debate the core of the law. So I'd like to go back to him. One part of the change that comes from the Senate, we discussed here very closely, these are the sanctions for the municipalities, where we really find it completely absurd that, for example, Prague, when it sells the user tribe of Opencard holders, there is no penalty for that. That's just ridiculous, and I don't understand that the Home Secretary is defending this place. The second part, which, in my opinion, is even more important, is the Senate proposal to cancel or delete an information order from that law. In the Czech Republic, there is a law on free access to information that guarantees citizens the right to information, but unfortunately, there is one fundamental error. If a citizen doesn't get information illegally in that first instance, he'll appeal, so mostly the superior instance, typically the regional authority, cancels the first decision. Then it follows that the citizen will turn back to the first instance, respectively. there it will automatically return within the file, and if it doesn't respond illegally again, they will not provide information, so he will have no choice but to appeal up again. And this administrative ping-pong goes on for 18 repeats. The only effect is that subsequently applicants for information rightly turn to the courts and win in those courts against the Czech Republic and receive compensation, which is paid again by all citizens, compensation for the fact that information has not been unlawfully provided to them but cannot do so. That is why, as we discussed the law on free access to information in the context of GDPR-related prints in this House plenary, we proposed to eliminate this fundamental problem. We think that this is absolutely appropriate, because access to information and privacy are very closely linked, because it is these two rights that often need to be balanced when we are creating this legislation. That's why we think it's quite appropriate to discuss it. That is why we have convinced the Chamber of Deputies once that it is a good idea to approve, introduce the information order and that the Office for Personal Data Protection, as an institution that is already monitoring privacy, should also set up those limits on access to information and decide to issue an information order. We think that this is a very good instrument, and I am very sorry that the Minister of the Interior has completely turned around and leaned towards the Senate version, although this House actually guarantees citizens access to information much better. This is therefore a crucial point for us, in which the House version of the law is better. And we see it as a huge mistake to approve the Senate version that cuts the information order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u58	Minister Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u59	I'd like to respond to a performance by my colleague Ferjenčík. I didn't notice I cut the information command, respectively. I would therefore support the removal of the information order. If I am not mistaken, press 139, which is the next point, and when you hear my speech to print 139, you will learn that I support the House's version of press 139, which maintains the information command. That means this is an irrelevant remark. Ad a). Ad (b) to fines. I believe there is no point in repeating the arguments that have fallen here. We are merely making full use of it, or the Senate is therefore making full use of the option it gives, that is to say, to the public authorities or to the public authorities to forgive the fines, but does not in any way relieve them of their responsibility for their actions. Of course, I understand that there is always a need to illustrate or illustrate the argument, but it is not entirely fair here to say that Prague is the typical representative of self-government. That's not true, and when I listened to the Senate debate, it might be worth getting acquainted with the arguments, especially from the mayors of smaller municipalities, and that's why I came up with the idea that we can accept the Senate version, but, and that's also for my colleague Benda, if it turns out that there's a problem, there's nothing difficult to impose, but that would mean, of course, an amendment to the law. So from my point of view, this law is acceptable, and it's definitely not about the Home Office wanting to destruct an information order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u60	Thank you. Mr Adamec will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u61	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I wanted to respond to my colleague Holomčík's contribution. I think Prague really is not a good example. And I'm already here, I feel, sometimes he said, I don't like either version. I'm saying this quite frankly. It makes it very difficult for us to live in municipalities. De facto the first hit of GDPR was pretty scary, I can tell you that from practice, because no one knew how it was going to be, and it happened that the office began to be paralyzed because of the data transfer. But I want to say one thing. The hundred and six you're talking about, and all the complaints that come to the office, so once a year at the DA's office, there's a report on how they're handled, what are reasonable, unfounded, etc., how many appeals have been made. And this is always accompanied by, of course, a big debate, a big debate, including the opposition. And I will tell you as mayor of the community with extended scope, there is not so much in that year, as in Prague you have it normally, but it is so that it has never actually happened to me that we would not give the requested information even knowing that it serves for a competitive fight, it never happened to me that we would not want to give information in this way that we would be overreacting with the regional office, and we simply never had a discussion on this topic. It might really be worth seeing if it's the gros of the difference at the moment, if it's worth the big discussion, because it really looks completely different in municipalities outside of Prague. I don't know this problem at all from practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u62	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to comment on the rather complex nature of the information order and on the Minister's intention to support the Senate variant of the House press 138 and the House variant of the House press 139. It means, it's kind of a mix, and I think we should think about whether or not there will be any undesirable consequences. I am unable to predict this, because we have learned about this decision, which I consider surprising, this afternoon. Since these laws are bound together because that one law is a change law to the other, the option that one will approve in the Senate version and the other in the House version is surprising. I hope there won't be any undesirable consequences. It is true what the Minister said that if the Chamber of Deputies insists on its version of the amendment law, the House's press 139, then the information order, review procedure and the powers of the Office for Personal Data Protection will be maintained as defined in this House's press. Since the two laws are linked, the reference was logically also in the House Press Act 138, or the processing of personal data. What is proposed if the Senate variant of Parliamentary Press 138 were adopted would only result in the power of the Office for Personal Data Protection to consult municipalities and other mandatory bodies on matters of the right to information, so that these matters remain in the Ministry of the Interior's remit. This regulation is paradoxical or illogical in its own way, because the Office will, on the one hand, decide on matters of the right to information authoritarianly and, on the other hand, will not be equipped with competence to consult those more complex issues which are at the edge of the right to information, which will remain at the Ministry of the Interior, as it is today. Which I don't think is entirely happy. Of course, I have heard that the Ministry will correct it with an amendment, but from the perspective of legislative technology, this is probably not the happiest solution. I would like to make one reference here to the senát, the proponents of the Senate version of the House of Press 139. It is drawn up in such a way that, on the basis of the resolution of the Senate, an amendment is tabled by which part 15 is deleted. This means that all amendments to the Act on Free Access to Information are deleted from this amendment law. This means that the very important provisions of the existing paragraph are being deleted, I think that is 5 par. Article 2 (2) of the Personal Data Protection Act provides personal data on a publicly active person, a public official or a public servant who reports on his/her public or official activity or his/her functional or professional classification. So if the Senate proposal was approved, we'd be out of legal grounds for providing information on public officials. So I believe - unless this is explained in some other way - that it has been included in another provision, which I am sorry, but I really haven't found that anywhere - I believe that the Senate has not done a very good job in terms of the legislative technique, because it is absolutely essential that this provision remains there. Otherwise, the State would start hiding information about publicly active persons, officials, employees of the public administration. That is why this Senate press 139 is unacceptable to us in this form, and it is logical for the Ministry to decide that it will therefore remain in the Chamber version of press 139. So I'm sure I'll welcome the Minister's statement. As I say, since I learned about this a few hours ago, that it will be approved in this hybrid way, one with the Senate, one for the Houses, I cannot imagine what the consequences will be. I do not consider it entirely a happy and responsible decision. Maybe we'll take some time to check it out. But based on the Minister's statement, we might as well take a stand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u64	Thank you. The next order of speakers will now be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček with priority rights, Mr Profant, Ms Senator and then Mr Benda. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u65	Then I will respond to Prime Minister Michálek. I feel like we've found each other a little bit. This means that even from what the President said, it is not my intention to destruct an information order. I agree that it is not entirely standard procedure for two related laws to be preferred in the Senate version and the other in the House. However, I have made the main reason clear here, and that is that we take full advantage of the possibility and forgive the fines to the municipalities. So from my point of view, it prevails. The risks aren't there. If you have - I have listened very carefully - identified only one, this is the consultation mechanism between the Office and other entities, so from the point of view of the legislation of the Ministry of Interior it can either be interpreted by the interpretation of the law, for which we are prepared, or, and that is further information, the Ministry has prepared an amendment to Act 106, which is now de facto in the interreort, when we are removing contradictions, and in March the material will go to the government. This means, at the latest at the House meeting in April, an amendment 106 will appear here, where we can possibly modify it, and until then my legislation insists that it is solvable by interpretation. I don't think the only risk you've drawn attention to either doesn't exist or is solvable. And in everything else, I think we're already in agreement. I understand, of course, that there is a different political view of the Pirates Club on fines, but that is not even the subject of any negotiations between us, we have dealt with information orders and amendment 106. And that's where I think we've met before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u66	With a point of fact, now President Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u67	So the basic problem, of course, is that we are not able to see what the consequences will be within two hours, because both of these legislative materials are extremely complicated. So I see the risk. But, of course, what you said is true. But if it shows up there - I also believe that, if this is set out in the Houses of the Press 139, the office's competence, it is guided by the interpretation. That means the Bureau will be able to provide some consultations, even if it's not explicitly there. And maybe it won't be as beautifully legislatively clean as we would have imagined. But what I'm worried about is that we just don't miss something there, if on the basis of this, I don't want to degrade it, but we approve the action in a mixed way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u68	Thank you. Mr Profant in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u69	Hello again. Austria has spoken several times here in the debate. That Austria doesn't have fines. But I think that certainly all the members of the Public Administration Committee were very detailed, such as Deputy Minister Mlsna, aware that there is a completely different model of public administration in Austria, where fines for public organisations do not exist at all. And that's exactly why the regulation allows you not to have tickets there. Because there are models where the public administration does not receive fines and it is dealt with by other measures. If that's the model we want, let's make it a model. I'd be all for it. Again, I don't think that spilling money from one chapter to another is an effective way, but there definitely has to be a way. We cannot say that these authorities are independent, and at the same time have no mechanism to deal with if they behave badly. And that's what a lot of people are defending here, unfortunately. And to the Minister. In the House version of the small village and their contribution organizations have already been removed. We're talking about Trojan municipalities. These are not small municipalities that couldn't adapt the methodology a little bit. They are municipalities that have already had to comply with Act 101, which, as far as substance is concerned, ordered the same thing, except there were not so strict fines and some minorities, such as the DPO, have been added, but I do not think it is a big problem. The associations of municipalities and so on told us that they actually share the DPO with each other and that it does not bear any great costs for them. My experience in the community is like that. So it is really wrong to compare the method of determining the amount of fines in the Czech Republic and Austria. [[16.50 hours]] And I wanted one more thing that actually came from ODS and Communists. GDPR is trying to guarantee a citizen's right to privacy across Europe, that is, the right of each individual to work with his personal data and at a modern digital age. Of course, the right to privacy comes from the Constitution, but the implementation in the digital age of social networks and the like is relatively difficult and not just social networks. These are the growing services of the state, where unfortunately, we are very often dominated by the supreme model and the official is acting all-powerful instead of pretending to be a man who provides services to citizens. And this is exactly it. I, as a citizen, want the same rights, whether it's Facebook or a traffic inspectorate or another office, because I don't want any information to spread. And that's just a new right for citizens, for individuals. It's not a bureaucratic burden, as some people are trying to tell us. It's not some fantasy. No. It is a right which is clearly based on our Constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u70	Thank you. Mr Kupka, Mr Ferjenčík, will also respond to the factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u71	I completely agree that protecting privacy is a matter that deserves our attention. And the more important thing to ask is how to do it so that it doesn't even have to be counterproductive on the other hand. What way to find the right to privacy in this direction does not export (?) pointless other bureaucracy. The biggest problem is the GDPR of the Czech Republic undoubtedly caused precisely how the government transferred it into Czech legal practice. It was one of the serious problems behind which the original meaning of the regulation was completely lost, as it was said, to protect people's personal information, which I dare say is a matter that most of us agree on. And it is also true that in the time of information technology, this is not an easy and easy thing to do. The last comment on how it is with those entities that would now be excluded, and how it was according to the current House version. There was a practice, which is actually very unfair, because a number of regional contribution organisations that have not been excluded from this are often much smaller in the number of people and in the scope of protected information than in the case of a small community contribution organisation, if it is necessary school. There have been relatively great injustices in this regard. The proposal with which the Senate is coming in this direction really eliminates these injustices and alleviates the effects where I think it is appropriate, and does not mean that the regulation would not apply to public administration and would not apply the Czech laws, only they are not subject to sanctions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u72	Thank you. Now, Mr Ferjenčík with a point of fact, then Senator Hubáčková in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u73	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to thank the Home Secretary for the clarification. I apologize for accusing him of turning around. From discussing the press in the constitutional committee, where we always voted on both information orders, both thousands, I thought it was connected inseparably. Even if we don't agree politically with the abolition of fines or the removal of information order from press 138, if it's preserved in press 139, I guess we won't start a war with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u74	Thank you. Mrs. Senator Hubáčková. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u75	Thank you for the floor. I will return to the sense and purpose that the Senate has pursued. In the case of fines, we do not go beyond anything that does not allow for a European directive, we are merely making greater use of possibilities, or we are proposing the use of opt-out options. This is what the European regulation allows, and some countries have made use of it. We therefore propose to use this for fines for all local authorities. About the information order. This does not really concern the Data Protection Act. He's already going to the process of providing information and to Law 106, so I'd like to comment on it later. The Senate didn't deal with the fact that the information order wasn't. The Senate has dealt with the fact that the information order is part of a law-abiding process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u76	Thank you, Senator. And in the debate is Mr Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u77	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like a few responses to my fellow pirate party. First of all, my colleague Michálek. I think the idea that under this law or the accompanying state it will start to conceal some information is completely wrong because nothing will happen. All laws will remain in force as they apply, and GDPR regulations apply at this time. They're paying eight months. That means we'd have to put some kind of ban on it, otherwise it's really a mistake. Second thing. Hooray action - we approve in a mixed way and we are unable to see what is in the law. I find that very incorrect to say in front of the senator here. By its resolution, the Senate returned this press on January 30. We've had a month and 12 days for him until now. The Senate always has a maximum of 30 days after we end the vote here, and it has to deal with it in some way. It means saying that we did something here, we're doing too fast, we should have known both versions. I know both versions. I know what they mean. Even in the second version, I'd be leaning towards approving the Senate version, because I don't think it's really supposed to touch at the moment and in this way, and I'm probably just going to justify it to the other press, but we're really just pushing fines here. That's a thing that's widely discussed, and I don't think it's gonna change in the House. There is simply a part of people who believe that municipalities are to be liberated, a part of people who believe that if we are not able to free private entities too, that we do not have to free municipalities, and we simply decide by voting. The fact that I think it's inappropriate to introduce an intel order at this point, to reach into the hundred sixth, as it is being touched in the following law, I just think. Unlike respected pirate colleagues, I do not think that the world is improving by what is more public and public and public, even in many cases I believe that personal data is significantly threatened by this. And wait in 14 days and let me know when it appears on request according to a hundred and six decisions on ties that have been deposited in Brno, what will be there. We'll be surprised. This will be much more than what we already have in the paper, according to the Minister of the Interior, on the basis of proposals for the initiation of criminal prosecutions, virtually. house search. When we get those ties in there, you'll see what all the wiretaps are gonna be like. We've seen this place before. We were also angry about this in cases of corruption in a sports environment. We have repeatedly looked at how it is possible that decisions are made on detention based on a hundred and six journalists, and we have found that the courts have reached such a decision that this is a final decision on the matter, and it is one of the things that I think must be resolved in a hundred and six. But that's what I'm gonna say in the next one. [[17,00 hours]] And a second comment on what my colleague Profant said. Here neither the European regulation nor our implementation of this regulation create any new rights for citizens. We have the right to privacy here since the adoption of the Charter and we have had the Data Protection Act here since 2001. We also have the Office for Personal Data Protection here. And it worked quite well in our relationships, in a number of cases intervened, in a number of cases fines were issued, in a number of cases... And you can go after the decision-making process, and she would undoubtedly tell us more about the Senator, because they are senators who are discussing the Office's final personal data protection reports. But let's not pretend that there's a new right here by giving GDPR the protection of personal data. This right was here, and even all the experts said, de facto, almost nothing changes in the Czech Republic, but bureaucracy will only increase, only the citizens, companies, municipalities and everyone managed to scare, so they paid for the big money consulting services of various smarts who showed how to process personal data. I think it's also due to the omission of past governments that didn't bring this bill in time enough, but it's probably pointless to weeping over governments that are no longer in control here. Unfortunately, this is the shortened responsibility in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u78	Thank you. A real comment will be made by President Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u79	Just really about what my previous speaker said, Mr. Chairman Benda. When we were talking about no change, let me remind you that I was speaking hypothetically about a case where the Senate version of House Press 139 was approved. This would release the possibility of providing information on publicly active persons. Let me remind you, we've got a clause 5 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (f) the Personal Data Protection Act, which, however, is to be repealed. So we need to move this clause somewhere. I've criticized here that the Senate has taken what a hooray action, all the changes 106 have erased. And that's what the Homeland had rightly written, that's where the Senate should have left it. So already for this principled reason in 139 - I understand that this will only be dealt with at the next point, but it is just very closely related - for this reason it is no longer possible to approve the 139 Senate version. It's just to get real with each other. Now, of course, there is some political debate about the adoption here of a regulation that strengthens the protection of the right to data protection and privacy, on the other hand, is quite a thrill for entrepreneurs. And, of course, everyone is asking, why did the businessman's duty be approved, and now the county approves the exemption? So logically: Why should there be any exception to the office when every businessman has to comply with this? So that's probably the subject of what we're going to settle in the vote. I worked at the City Council of Prague. I can assure you that if you approve an impeccable legal standard, so that you don't impose any sanctions, the officials approach it in a completely different way. And Prague dealt with a huge amount of personal data, with data on Opencard. The tribe had over a million people. [[Attention on time.]] So it could be a big problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u80	Thank you. A Member of the Pávek will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just for a little while. I would like to learn from what we had to experience on GDPR, not only in the legislative process, but also in the executive process. I believe that this discussion mixes pears with apples. On the one hand, it is the protection of personal data, on the other hand, the right to information. I believe that it is important to divide this in the debate with the press. But you know what? GDPR means that we have all actually given up our data protection rights. I am certainly not the only one in this House who has signed some paper a hundred times over the last year that he agrees to the processing of his personal data, and therefore I have given up my signature on that right. And that's the result of hysteria, that's the result of the abuse of the vacuum that happened here, and it's the result of poor prep work in the field of executives. The fact that we've only spread this discussion after that is another sad story that follows. I would like us to learn from this unfortunate implementation process on all sides and not repeat it in others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u82	I have no further application for the debate. If no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? There's no interest in final words. So with priority rights before we proceed to the vote, President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u83	I'd like a 15-minute recess at the club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u84	Okay. I'm declaring a 15-minute recess for a meeting of the Pirates' MP. The meeting will continue at 17.20 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u85	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 17.20, we will continue with the adjourned negotiations. Let me introduce you to an apology. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes today from 5:30 p.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. The President of Michálek will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad we got that straightened out. I would only now, because certain questions have been raised to formulate one provision, so I would just like to point out in fact that, in the case of Section 16b, where the proceedings are referred to under the special legislation, the relevant provisions of the Administrative Code, Section 94 of the Administrative Rules, are, of course, meant. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 where it is mentioned that measures will be taken against the inactivity of a superior body under special legislation, that is to say, Paragraph 80 (2) of the Act. 3, 4 of the Administrative Rules. So it's in the gesture of what the minister said, there's no need for another special rule. Just this method of authorisation, here it refers only to procedural legislation, which we already have, which generally applies. [[There's a gong.]] It's the rules of procedure. [[Restlessness and noise in the Chamber.]] After this clarification, I would like to ask that we formally vote to extend the negotiations and vote within 20 hours today, on a proposal from us, the ČSSD and the ODS, which I have consulted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-001-001.u87	Thank you. In the meantime, I have already called Members of Parliament into the Chamber, so we can vote on the proposal that has now been made. It is a proposal from the Pirates, the ČSSD and the ODS to act today after 7:00 p.m. until 20:00 p.m. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 211: 187 Members registered, for 157, versus 2. The motion has been accepted and we will act within 20 hours. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on the processing of personal data, according to the House press 138/14, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 138/15'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 212: 186 Members registered, for 122, versus 34. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you, Senator, thank you to the Vice-President of the Government, and I am done discussing this point. Initiating item discussion
