ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u1	Joint debate on paragraphs 29 and 30 / House prints 645 and 506/ [[18.00 hours]] We dealt with these Houses of Press on 6 December 2019 when we interrupted the merged general debate. I would remind you that the veto of two parliamentary clubs, the SPD and the KSČM was raised against the proceedings under Section 90 (2) of the House Press 645. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by the Minister of Education for Youth and Sports Robert Plaga and Mr Lukáš Bartoň. I remind you that the rapporteurs for first reading are Mr Lukáš Bartoň to the House Press 645 and Member Ivo pojezdný, House Press 506. Are the rapporteurs interested in speaking to this press? No. So we will now continue with the suspended merged general debate, where the first Mr Karel Rais came forward to speak. And I will ask everyone in the Chamber to keep their voice down so that we can discuss these points in the merged debate. Thank you. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u2	Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, fellow Members, the debate on this House of the Press has been particularly focused on the issue of mathematics graduation. The House divided into two distinct groups. One that wants a compulsory math degree, where, of course, not only emeritus rectors from technicians belong, i.e. me, but representatives of industry and research and other colleagues. And the second, which I think was rather represented by representatives of the Ministry of Education who refuse to introduce a mathematics exam because they are afraid of bad results from this subject. We should ask why the math exam results are so bad. The reason why the results of Czech and foreign languages are better at graduation than the results of mathematics and at the same time international investigations show worse results in Czech than in mathematics. Isn't it because the evaluation in Czech language is set differently than in mathematics? Anyone who teaches so knows that we can put in light questions when most listeners will do everything, and then we can also create a test from which most listeners, in general speaking, shed our teeth. I therefore believe that Cermat, today the Centre for Learning Results, is addressing the problem of a suitable composition of the graduation exam by presenting an amendment that puts the math exams off eight to ten years, according to the press. I believe that this problem could be dealt with either by decree or by some regulation of the Ministry of Education, and this proposal might not be here at all. As for those who are against graduation today and voted for the 2016 amendment two years ago, I would like to remind them of the justification of the law, when we clearly stressed the importance of mathematics for development and for innovation and for what we now call Country for the Future and so on. So back in 2016, when we were discussing the amendment to the school law, you'll remember, those who were here, the raging discussions, especially of the teachers, where the study was to be completed by the math exam. That's when I think there was a certain optimism where some students didn't have to graduate from mathematics. At the same time, I could quote the justification of the law, where a great emphasis was placed on the math exam due to the need to build a developed industrial society. By decree of the Ministry of Education, pupils in the field of artistic, health and education were excluded from social activity with regard to the specifics of the given fields and they can only graduate from two subjects of the common part of the graduation exam, namely from Czech and literature and from foreign language. In other schools and schools students voted for another exam either from mathematics or from a foreign language and basically, popularly said, was calm. Everyone took it for real and was in peace. And now, in fact, the novel is causing some pretty heated discussions. Why is that? From my point of view, maybe limited, especially because officials are afraid of bad results from the graduation exam at the remaining secondary schools, especially professional ones. I'd go back to what I said I could do, this whole meeting, either by decree or by order of the Ministry of Education. We're all just focusing on the math exams, but the problems, Pandořina's locker just opened up by opening the school bill. One of these problems is, for example, the same curriculum for teaching individual subjects, because the so-called framework study programmes, the methodological material that each school adjusts to the so-called school curriculum, are very loose and often inadequately processed. I think the professional public is justifiably calling for the unification of the content of compulsory teaching in primary schools. At the same time, free and underworked framework study programmes have the effect that graduates of two different primary schools may have a significant difference in the rate of knowledge acquired at the end of compulsory schooling or at the transition to the multiannual grammar school. This situation is contrary to the right of the child to education and also to equal opportunities in achieving it. Different penzion of knowledge is due not to the child's abilities but to the content of his education provided for by the primary school. And if we add to that the momentum where the parent can only exceptionally decide on the school the child will attend, the situation could theoretically be even worse. This situation results in an unequal chance for pupils to successfully pass the entrance exams at secondary school. It can also make it difficult to change schools during compulsory schooling. To determine compulsory content according to individual subjects, the fact that the child is evaluated on the basis of individual subjects, not on the basis of thematic blocks. I therefore believe that it would be appropriate for us to consider between first and second reading, in addition to discussing compulsory optional mathematics, the appropriateness of the standard of framework education programmes, both at the level of the year and at the level of the subject. We are often given Finland for a model of success here in the House, where, of course, there are uniform curriculumes and textbooks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u3	Thank you. Mr Radim Fiala is registered with priority rights, but I don't see him here in the hall, so at this point, I will give the floor to the Minister. Please. And, uh, he's there, so Mr. Radim Fiala. And with priority rights, the Minister is next in line. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u4	I've just been very brief, dear colleagues, colleagues. I, on this point, proposed a shortening of the deadline in the previous discussion with the Committee on Education and with the Minister of Education, but since we have been through so much, in agreement with the Education Committee and with the Minister of Education, and with the rapporteur of this press, I am withdrawing my proposal to shorten this deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u5	Thank you, and I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, Members, only in response to what has fallen from Mr Rais. Sure, let's debate the results of the PISA international investigation and the fact that it turns out that the same quality of our schools is. But that's not the way back to the curriculum. The way is to support those schools that do not take advantage of the opportunities given to them by the framework education programmes. Yes, where there is a small problem, and we know about it and it is part of the upcoming revision in the framework of educational programmes, respectively. her description, so it's exactly that there must be nodal points where it's going to happen, and to debate whether it's the first, the third, the fifth, the seventh, the ninth. That's a yes. However, as far as Finland is concerned, Finland does not follow the individual textbooks and curriculum. But the point is really to help those schools where the results, as shown by these investigations, are not sufficient. The problem is not primarily that there is nothing in the framework education programmes. The problem is, they're overloaded. I was saying the arguments that testify in favor of reduction, respectively. the determination of the core teacher, and these are shown both from the investigation of the Czech School Inspectorate and from the international investigations. So much for a point of fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u7	Thank you. In the general debate, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I think much has been said since the last debate. But for me, I want to focus specifically on the 506, which is actually the pirát' proposal. And I would also like to make a motion to dismiss. And now I'm going to take a few sentences in brief to say why I want to make this motion. Firstly, the proposal completely abandons the idea of introducing a compulsory didactic test of mathematics. At the same time, the introduction of inclusion in education threatens, over the course of several years, the actual mathematical illiteracy in a part of the young population, with an impact on the level of general financial literacy of citizens and, above all, on the level of technical and natural sciences, which is the basis of the country's economic prosperity. Two. Application in the proposal for the concept of secondary education is not appropriate, as it is now clearly defined by the law in Section 58. It defines it for education courses of a duration of one year. These disciplines are intended for pupils with moderate mental disabilities and education courses lasting two years, also for pupils with lower mental disabilities and with serious special educational needs. It is absolutely wrong to put this particular kind of education on the level with the education of a pupil who has successfully completed the last year of secondary education in the field, education with a graduation exam and has not only completed his graduation. For the next one. The proposed change ignores the problem of pupils in a similar situation, namely for graduates of conservatory and education courses providing education with an educational certificate, who do not pass the final exam after the end of the last year of this secondary education. This is what I think is in brief the criticism of the 506, with the 506 print. And now I'm gonna go back to the other press, that's 645. I must say that I was quite surprised when this proposal appeared here in plenary, because in June of this year we were all assured that there were no changes to the maths, and today, unfortunately, everything is different. Even when this proposal was to be discussed in the so-called Ninety, in an accelerated reading, which I think is completely inappropriate. For the next one, I'm terribly sorry that the students have been waiting for us to discuss this for weeks. And I'm sorry that this law probably won't be able to discuss today, even if it may, perhaps it will. I'd really like the students to know what they're graduating from. I still have to say that what Mr. Rais said here about the fact that we didn't have to deal with this at all, but it could have been dealt with by decree or regulation of the Ministry of Education, which would have greatly accelerated this process and we would have forgiven ourselves here for weeks and months of negotiations. So I'll be happy to have the 645 press dealt with in second and third readings. We will put the relevant amendments to this, and then we will see. And I hope it helps the students. Otherwise, I will repeat once again that I am making a motion to dismiss the press 506.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u9	Yes, thank you. I've registered your motion to dismiss the 506 press. I'll read an apology. Mr Vít Rakušan apologizes today from 18:00 to 21:00 due to the hearing and Mr Jiří Mihola from 18:00 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Martin Baxa, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to respond briefly to Mrs Hyťhová's speech. Madam Vice-President, I must admit, he did not understand your reasoning regarding the proposal to reject the parliamentary version of the law that we talked about, because I can agree with what you said about secondary education or secondary education in the sense of the wording of the law, but you did not dispute the content. So I'm going to stress again why we brought this up here. I don't have so much experience with this at grammar school alone, most of my students are successfully graduating from our school, but at other types of high school with graduation, it may happen that the student is very successful - I stress: he is very successful - the corresponding number of senior studies, then for some reason he doesn't have to master state graduation and the result is that he or she or she has a general graduation exam, but more often the state graduation, and the result is that after those four years of study he simply has a basic education, formally a basic education. And even assuming that he actually graduated, he ended each of those, for example, four years of study. So the argument seems to me to be at least inadequate, the way you've justified it here. And then I would like to point out one more thing that I was surprised by you, if you're still studying the faculty of education, by arguing that not introducing compulsory math degrees has some effect on what the children in school are now being recruited. Well, then I must admit that I lost track of what you said when you were talking about impending mathematical illiteracy in the order of several years in relation to how children come to school in the context of joint education. So there, especially in your case, if you are a professional student, the argument seemed completely incomprehensible to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u11	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Lukáš Bartoň, Mr Jakub Michálek will be prepared with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u12	Thank you. I will also respond, as Mr Baxa, to a motion to reject, which I respect. However, the reasoning seems strange to me. The current school law knows three categories. It's a high school education, high school education, high school education with a teaching certificate. If the student successfully completes all four years of high school and does not go to graduation or does not do it at all, then he ends up with primary education. If it bothers you by means of the President that he will be placed in the same category as secondary education, where there are one-year and two-year disciplines, then by rejecting the law, you say that he will be even lower than that, with basic education. The reason why we chose secondary education is because we respected the categories already in the law. We can talk about it, even until second reading, whether or not to create another category in which secondary education is needed without graduation, and we can include them there. But once again, our effort has been to minimize school law and make the most of the categories that are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u13	Well, thank you. We have four factual points here. The first is Mr Jakub Michálek, Mr Karel Rais, Mr Ivo Pojezný and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I really liked the gigs here to say that we have to promote literacy in the field of mathematics. I support this, too. And since every good society needs to be set an example, I suggest that we declare such a challenge, such a challenge that, for example, under the leadership of the Minister of Education, we would take a math test in each parliamentary club, and then, according to the various parliamentary clubs, we would make it public if we were to set an example of our society. Assuming it passes, it will remain a mandatory math graduate. I'm in. I think we can get ready for this at our MP's club. I like math, I look forward to it. And I believe that there are other parliamentary clubs that are so supportive of introducing mandatory graduations, or, respectively, all of them. So to remain a mandatory math degree, so that there's no choice, he's bold enough to sign up. I see some of them are looking forward to it now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u15	Thank you. Mr Karel Rais, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u16	Thank you. It is perfectly logical that two factually parallel laws are impossible to discuss. So one should, with pardon, reject and the good in it, of course, insert it into the other. I can't imagine the House finally voting on two different content, one of which will say yes to graduation, and the other will say no to graduation. That's how I personally understand the whole rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u17	Thank you. With factual remarks, there are five Members, and at this point, Mr Ivo Pojezný. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u18	Thank you for the floor. Nice pre-Christmas evening, dear colleagues. I would not in any way oppose this proposal by Mrs Hyťhová, for one very important reason. We have two perfectly identical proposals, and if we have just one nuance here, which actually concerns what you are saying: who does not do graduation, but has all four years in a row - this can be done by an amendment in the very law that Minister Plaga is proposing as a government proposal. Secondly, I want to say one thing. I think that every Member's opinion is legitimate, and what you have shown here, Mr Michálek, through Mr President, to our colleague, is a little unfair, especially when it is before Christmas. If we had a law here on promoting sport, if we had otherwise compared ourselves in physical prowess and we were there, colleagues, for example, with those who do kickboxing, it wouldn't be fair either. But we certainly wouldn't ask you to. So don't ask us to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u19	Thank you. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Mr. František Vácha will be ready. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u20	I'd like to thank my previous speakers. They basically answered what I was about to say. I'm not saying the pirát proposal is wrong. Surely there are things that I agree with and could somehow be compiled into an amendment and put into second reading actually on the government proposal. But I don't think there's really two duplicate proposals to be discussed here. We should identify one of them, especially now the government, and talk about possible changes at second reading. And maybe the pirát can put their stuff or change in their second reading here for a government proposal. But I think now that we're dealing with a dubious proposal that basically has the same goal, it's pointless. So let's cancel this one, talk about it one and process it well so that it's beneficial for our students, and we'd all be happy with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u21	Thank you. Anyway, this proposal has fallen here, we will decide by vote whether we will discuss both or just one press. And we'll continue. So, with the factual remark of Mr František Vácha, Mrs Valachová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. I will take a factual point to respond to my colleague Michálek, who suggested that we all take a test here. I'm saying in advance I wouldn't have done the graduation. But I'd like to warn you about the Ministry of Education. [[Laughter and applause.]] I'm gonna lighten this situation a little bit, and I'm gonna explain why. We, as a faculty or a university, handed out a European grant, which was worth about 100 million. And we had machines there, and because we were counting on inflation, we asked for an allocation, and we increased it by 5 percent. The proposal went to the Ministry of Education, and the government officials said no, no, ask for the original amount, not the 5 percent increase. And they took the amount we asked for, and they multiplied it by 0.95. So they reduced it by not 5 percent, but a little bit more, because if they wanted to cut it by 5 percent, they'd divide it by 0.5. So that's why I would warn the Department of Education to prepare the tests for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u23	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová, Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u24	I just want to appreciate that Pirates are competitive, and they are certainly looking forward to winning such a competition as maths and I.T.s, because there is certainly the highest share of them in terms of MPs. But I would just like to point out that, as all mathematicians agree and for mastery, that means doing, graduation today is enough to know and to certify the level of knowledge within the completed compulsory primary schooling. That's the reality. So let's not get scared and the pirát, don't look forward to winning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u25	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Vojtěch Pikal will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u26	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond briefly to the claim that it is necessary to reject our proposal just so that it does not burden the House in its next reading. In the referendum from the SPD workshop, we have acted in a completely different way. We did the same thing differently, for example, at executions. And it's a perfectly normal procedure for them to go through both patterns and then decide on the committee which draft will be used as a basis for further discussion and which draft will be interrupted. This is exactly how we did, for example, in the referendum. So I don't understand why, if we factually agree with our proposal, why we should reject it only for some formal reasons, when there is a proven practice that we have applied to a number of laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u27	Thank you. Vice-President Pikal has withdrawn his point of order. [[Minister Plaga is coming to the speaker's desk.]] With a point of fact, it is still registered before you, Minister, Mr Bartoň and Mr Ivo Vondrák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u28	He's already hinted at me by a colleague of Ferjenčík. But if we reject the proposal now, we're saying that we're actually rejecting the secondary education. Of course, if this is rejected, we will submit an amendment to the existing one. However, this way, we could reject the other six proposals that we have on the agenda and are also on the school bill. And if we reject it now at first reading, we're going to miss the debate on whether the middle level is sufficient or whether we want to introduce a new category. Because then the amendment will be proposed and the amendment to the amendment will already be difficult to put there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u29	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Vondrák. Mrs Tereze Hyťhová will be ready. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to say that graduation isn't about me remembering what I'm gonna do at the rehearsal my whole life. I would have to know the Russian I graduated from, and I almost forgot everything about it. I would dare to graduate from mathematics and definitely from descriptive geometry. Of course, I can't remember a lot of Czech things anymore, because literature is also forgotten. But what I'd like to say is that it's important to show that this graduation is here because it proves that this young person is capable of taking the penzum of knowledge at some point. The fact that he forgets something in time or doesn't use anything at all is another thing. But he just has to prove the basic knowledge. And that's why I'm saying that introducing a secondary education by serving four years in my class, don't be mad at me, it has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u31	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u32	Thank you. I would like to respond by your means to Mr Ferjenčík, who said that he does not understand why we will not support this proposal if we agree with him in substance. I didn't say that. I didn't say we agree with him on a matter of fact. On the contrary, I do not agree with him in substance, which is why I am filing a motion for rejection. I said that there are certain elements that are good and can be incorporated in second reading. But the proposal, I believe, and not just me, but I hear it from experts and schools that it is not handled quite well and well. And I don't understand why there's a government proposal. So why hasn't one proposal been made that we haven't all signed up for across the political spectrum, including the YES movement, and there are two proposals. So just like this, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u33	Thank you. Mr Ivo Pojezný with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u34	Allow me to respond to Bartona's colleague. That's exactly what I think if the government's proposal had been adopted, the minister had taken it his own way, they could have just created the category of full secondary education without graduation, and it would probably be no problem. I assume that team of experts is there to do something about it. And if they take it as their own, it's no problem at all. Otherwise, the consensus is big there, and that's why I don't think it's such a big deal if this proposal of yours were rejected at first reading and continued to cooperate with the Ministry of Education. And a colleague of Vondrák. I don't know if I would have done math, I tried it two years ago, I managed it with scratched ears, Czech language I did excellently over the internet, maybe it was also quiet on the computer, that I was not in the stressful environment, but it is also because I am humanely focused, that I am closer to František Gellner, Antonín Sova, Karel Čapek than for example derivative etc. I didn't lose any math teacher, I had to do a math degree myself, we were half a class, but then, at grammar school it was, I think half got something closer square, the others got A's, then they also looked their studies, who went to technical directions, at the BUT, so it was the A's, or at architecture, the human focus went to the bunks, philosophy, etc. That was before, and I think it wasn't bad, and if we got back to it - perhaps it's the possibility of disputation with the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u35	I thank you, and at this moment the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u36	Thank you for the floor. Quick reaction to Ivo Vondrák. The way I felt about the proposal, there's a difference between someone having a basic education, and then it's not for sitting down, but it's for achieving those results, graduating for four years and not graduating. That's how I felt. And I can see the difference there. That there's a difference, if anyone's trying, they're taking the gradual steps, but they're not gonna make the big finale. But this is exactly where we can have a serious debate about it, and I think the ideal ground plan is the school committee. And, of course, I'm suggesting here if there's a motion to dismiss the second proposal, so I'm ready to have this debate. When it came down, I was asked to do so, so I'm prepared to talk about this matter, because the difference really is obvious and there's no point in someone who just doesn't succeed in the finals for any reason ends up being the one who didn't even try and go through those four levels. It's not that he did time, it was enough to go through those four years, but to go through in some way, i.e. with a report card. That's how I felt about the initiative. And now only the response to Mr Vácha. Yeah, about the Education Ministry organization, someone else would do that before judging your application. But of course, if it's 105 percent or a 5 percent increase that someone took by 0.95, they've damaged you by 0.25 percent, for which I apologize. But somebody else is in charge of preparing the graduation tests for uniforms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u37	Well, thank you. Mr Antonín Staněk will speak in the general debate, Mr Ivo Pojezný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also make a brief comment on the materials presented. And I'd probably start with one thought. Graduation in the past was and is still a condition for admission to college. So we all know that it is fundamentally different from the way it is studied in secondary schools. In high school, students' knowledge is continuously tested, tested, and students learn more or less from an hour to an hour, preparing on an ongoing basis. However, the university study is about the fact that the student takes part in lectures, exercises, seminars, and at the end of the semester he takes a more extensive exam. They must demonstrate the ability to master the greater penzion of their knowledge, knowledge, to represent it. For this reason, graduation was also referred to as a test of adulthood, a young person's ability to handle more extensive content of the course in this way, to relate it in some way, to work with it afterwards. That is why, in the past, good teachers have also tried to explain to parents and pupils that e.g. he or she is not quite the student type, because he does not have this ability and would be much better applicable and much happier if he went another way, whether a secondary vocational school or a school where he could excel. And just in a kind of exam like graduation, I see the crucial transition between that high school that's still building on the elementary school and what college is supposed to be for a person. It was rightly said here that much of what we have at school, what we are learning, so often we do not use in practical life. I myself, when I think about my school years, I thought about why I'm doing this or that in school, because I'm not gonna need it in my life. The ways of paradoxes, however, are erratic. When I graduated from high school, I thought that I would continue at a university in chemistry, mathematics - among other things, from my compulsory mathematics, from Czech language, chemistry, and Russian language. It turned out that the opportunity did not come, and after a year in the computer science business, I took entrance exams for a university in the field of Czech language and social science. You could say, quite different objects. But high school prepared me really comprehensively, I was able to find myself in both, say, different groups. That is why I believe that retreating from math graduation, retreating from trying and bringing high school students to prove the ability of a comprehensive understanding of the subject is the wrong way, it is the blind way. And there's no point in waiting for us to improve the way math is taught or not taught, because I think there are a lot of high-quality math teachers in elementary and secondary schools in Czech education. It's about the way the school, the parents, the student work together, if they're coming along. And I think that this path is the right way, not to retreat and simplify the system. On the proposal of fellow Pirates in the Houses of the Press 506 and on the debate whether to ban secondary education or not. Of course, I don't have a problem with it because I really appreciate the time that students spend in school, four years of regular attendance there, passed the partial exams, one by one, and in conclusion, it turns out that all they lack is the ability to master the entire penzum of the student, present it, present it and succeed. But I ask why we do not think in the same way in the field of higher education. Because if I'm not mistaken, students who have a three-year bachelor's degree, six semesters, have a closed year, have fulfilled all the conditions, go to a bachelor's exam and defend a bachelor's thesis, it may also happen that they will fail this exam, and then, if I'm not mistaken, they don't have a college education, they don't have a bachelor's education. But they did six semesters - three years of their lives. [[18.40 hours]] I have some very skilled and capable people among my friends who, for example, have not completed a real thesis, have not defended a thesis, otherwise have exams, everything, but do not have a university degree. So let's talk about these students who spent a lot of their lives at school, gained knowledge, gained knowledge, got something from this company that they could return, and they could work and they could get some position. The same goes for a two-year master's degree. I'm not gonna want to talk too much about splitting up the studio here. The whole problem is really complex and complex. You know, I feel like it all comes down to one thing, too. Our company is incredibly attached to titles, papers and everything else. You know, my mom used to teach me when I came home from school and I said, I could do it, but I got a threesome, and Anička could do it worse and she got an "A." And my mom always said the simple thing to me, "It's not important what grade you have. It's important if you can do it in life and you can use it." And I think it's generally valid. Of course, it is essential that knowledge, skills, knowledge be verified to give the certificate. But I'm still convinced that more important than having paper in your hand and not being able to use that knowledge and skills is better not to have that paper and the skills and knowledge to successfully use and use it. That's the case, for example, of those colleagues who don't have state women, they don't have a bachelor, but they're just great, successful, but they don't have a college education. Unfortunately, I must be on my own - because this is not the club's position - but I must say that I will support the motion to reject the House press 506 at first reading because, like my previous speakers, who supported this proposal, I am convinced that, although we may find a common solution at the end, it is easier from the very beginning to join forces and work on one material. I might have reservations about a government proposal that's ready. Some of the reservations were formulated by Mrs Valachová through Mr President, i.e. she formulated it through herself, but, as I understand, that is better when it is through Mr President. However, the truth is that the government's proposal is on the table, the government's proposal is made. He's got his flies. But I think we can work with him, we can discuss him, we can debate him, we can improve him, we can strengthen him. But it will be good if we do so on one single material. I therefore join myself in proposing the rejection of the House's 506 press in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u39	Thank you, too. The next in line in the general debate is Mr Ivo pojezdný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u40	I've got a D1 waiting, so I'm gonna try to be brief so I can get to Moravia by midnight tonight, unless there's any more trouble overtaking the trucks, which I think we didn't discuss today. The Ministry of Education and Youth proposes the abolition of compulsory mathematics. As I recall, the Minister modified his proposal from the beginning of the year, when he wanted to unify the date of introduction of this exam in various types of schools for the spring 2022. Then it shifted in some way and mainly because students don't understand mathematics, they don't know how to use it in practice. The problems of pupils mainly make applied tasks associated with practice. It is said that it is most important first to improve the quality of teaching and then to consider its introduction. I would not quite agree with the fact that mathematics is poorly taught. I think there's enough hours that schools have. I think it's about 200 hours a year in each year since the third or fourth grade. So I guess it doesn't just have to be with those math teachers. But I remember my grandmother, who always called me lazy mind is the devil's workshop. If we don't see any mistakes, or if we don't want to see our children, our students, or our students. We know that there are two opinions in both the lay and the professional public. On the one hand, for example, the Czech High School Union, the Agrarian Chamber, the Ministry of Agriculture, is also concerned with agricultural schools. Now I was also going to say pirát and some other clubs in half, but I'm not gonna provoke anyone else here at this hour and move on. On the other hand, the Association of Directors of Gymnasiums, the Unity of Czech Mathematicians and Physicists, the Chamber of Commerce and many others who claim that this decision can lead to the Czech Republic's backwards behind the developed world. This was also commented by my colleague Valachová, who said that other countries around the Czech Republic have compulsory mathematics. I think she said Austria, Germany. And I think that there could be a really competitive problem for us in Central Europe. However, the professional and lay public is, like, half-and-half. Today we received - and I do not like to use any e-mails, especially if it is from Sárközi and the Pedagogical Chamber, but I have to say it - we received an e-mail where we are allowed to draw attention to the inaccurate information communicated by the Minister of Education Robert Plaga. I don't believe Robert Plaga would want to mysticize us. Maybe there's been some inaccuracies, not because he wants to fool us, but maybe he responded to how those graduations would turn out, he did some research, too, if he graduated 100 percent of the seniors for whom graduation is from 2021, respectively. 2022 ready. So the minister said during the last discussion of the amendment to the Education Act regarding maths that the failure of mathematics was 24 percent. But according to official statistics of Cermat, and I was looking at it, by the way, the pure failure of primary mathematicians in the spring of 2019 was only 15.5%, which is therefore quite a big difference, and after the amending date in autumn 2019 it was 11.7 percent. Pupils have a third term at their disposal, so the resulting proportion of failed mathematicians will eventually be significantly lower. For comparison, the net failure of primary students from the Czech language and literature in 2019 is 16.2%, i.e. slightly more than in mathematics, from the English language it was preferably 6.8 percent, but from the German language 33.6 percent, or it is twice as bad. The main cause is the incomparably set difficulty of the tests. I'm not gonna judge that. Maybe that's a figment of fantasy. However, it is important information that I have compared, and I assume that the Minister will then respond. [[18.50 hours]] In the last discussion, a colleague named Baxa spoke, using the words of a high school math teacher. I accepted it because who else should talk about it than the one who is directly connected to the students and who learns these maths. However, it is the opinion of one math teacher. I received an e-mail from my former colleague from the South Moravian Region, who teaches at a high school in the South Moravian Region, specifically in a business academy and a medical school that has many years of experience. And as my colleague Baxa has read to us what that fellow mathematician says, let me also quote the opinion of a man who teaches mathematics and English, which is a special combination, it is not common, it is not just math-physics. But in this combination, I'd say it's a rare exception, and I'm glad we have such a personality in the South Moravian region. So he teaches almost 20 years, namely the fields of economic lyceum, business academy and medical assistant, practical sister, so he has a clear view of both the gymnasium level or lyceum, secondary vocational school or business academy, as well as the secondary vocational school with graduation, i.e. medical assistant, practical sister. It therefore has a very wide range of pupils both in mathematics and in English. And he writes: I will be glad to be able to help you with my practical years of experience in the area you decide. There are not many of us who are graduates of high school, graduation 1990. - If I'm not mistaken, just like Jiří Mihola, who then voluntarily gave up his math exams, but I don't see him there, although his grandfather was the founder of the Jedovnické industrialist in 1953. Perhaps Grandfather wouldn't approve of it very much, but at that time in 1990 this choice was. - And then I teach two objects as different as mathematics, the English language. Plus, it's been so long. I think with all due modesty that I am in this very well-called person. Moreover, I not only teach and teach, but for five years I was deputy school principal and for six months I represented her as acting director. So I see graduation from this point of view. Last but not least, I have been a collaborator of Cermat for more than 10 years in the creation, evaluation and validation of didactic tests. I'm a certified evaluator of the English language oral exam, and I also tried the profile exam of mathematics at our school. Last but not least, for several years, I have been chairman of the graduation committees at several schools, and I am currently also a school graduate commissioner. So what is he saying, I think, a very well-founded person? Please leave the current situation as it is still in force in the law. Don't let the rules change during our students' studies. It's unfair. Let mathematics be mandatory from 2021 for grammar school and lycea and from 2022 for the other fields mentioned in the Government Regulation. Moreover, the current proposal of the Ministry of Education may not be good in a foreign language. The current exam from a foreign language is perfectly fine, rather I would increase cut-off score than the current just 44 percent. Allow me to give his more detailed opinion. The first consideration is based on a uniform entrance examination. These are set to Czech language and literature and mathematics. Personally, I would also lean towards a foreign language, i.e. that the entrance exams consist of three subjects. The same ones that will then be required to graduate. It would be seen in individual entrance exams not only how primary schools prepared the pupil or how the pupil prepared himself, but subsequently what added value added to their education in secondary school. It is, of course, possible to discuss the content of individual didactic tests from Czech language and literature and mathematics, but only among experts on these subjects, not among all who have passed the school, which are all of them, and everyone feels that they understand education. Many then pointlessly say that it is useless to test pupils from derivative and integrals, because they themselves do not know that there is nothing similar in the catalogue of requirements. The didactic test from a foreign language closely copies many decades of proven international exams and is therefore in order. There's no need to change anything about them. Perhaps just increase cut-off score, which is currently set at 44 percent, whereas for international cambridge exams it is for example. 65 percent. It is logical that increasing claims would increase the failure of a foreign language, which currently looks like a very light test in English language, even if it consists of three sub-tests. And above all, it would be more equal in its complexity of mathematics, where I would leave cut-off score in the form of 33 percent. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is currently trying to return written papers and oral examinations to the profile section, which lacks the logic of the complexity of all three sub-tests. Each school sets its level, no one will be above the given level of supervision, and although the didactic test will have a level close to B1 according to the common European reference framework for languages, some schools may have written work and oral exams, for example level A2 or B2, and then individual sub-tests cannot be combined in one result. [[Restlessness in the hall, discussion groups.]] Perhaps I mind, Mr President, colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u41	Yes. I would like to ask you, dear colleagues, let us try to keep our voices down! We've got the last four minutes, so let's work this out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u42	Thank you. I don't even know how MŠMT wants to combine one of the proposed possible results of didactic tests with the classification of oral examination and written work. Is every school gonna set its own criteria? The content of the partial oral examination of a foreign language is still composed of four parts, each part testing one of the oral language skills. An immediate response to unknown questions, a description, comparison and talking about yourself, a separate oral speech on a specific or professional topic, and finally an interaction with the final agreement and a summary of the agreement. Currently, MŠMT proposes a 15-minute controlled interview on a topic into a new form of oral examination. The catalogue of requirements is set for mathematics by testing the minimum requirements laid down for whoever wants to have a graduation certificate. Not only do I think the didactic test itself often includes tasks that a skilled pupil from primary school can handle. After all, we've been looking into it this way for first-year students. And to be honest, a didactic test of at least 33 percent, i.e. a fourth grade, should not be a problem for any student of any high school, and therefore any field of graduation. In each framework education programme, even in medical disciplines, which are now excluded from compulsory mathematics by government regulations, there is a sufficient number of hours per week for mathematical education during the entire four-year high school course. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] They will discuss everything that contains the request catalogue. So it is up to the students themselves - and I was talking about what my grandmother told me about the laziness. [[19.00 hours]] I don't mind if my dear colleagues, perhaps Mr. Faltýnek and Mr. Okamura, here they will not be able to talk about anything, I can go back and start over. We can discuss this again. [[The chairman is gonging.]] So managing a 33 percent test should not be difficult at all for any high school student after graduating from mathematics in his schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u43	I understand. We've got the last 12 seconds until 7:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u44	I've got the last 20 pages, so I still don't think we're gonna talk about it tonight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u45	I don't think we're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u46	Mr President, that was a pre-Christmas joke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u47	It's 7:00 right now, so thank you. I am interrupting this item and we will vote on the elimination of the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 39th session of the Chamber of Deputies. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of eliminating the remaining points. Who's against it? In the vote order number 407 registered 159 Members and Members, for 115, against 1. The motion was accepted. Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u48	Colleagues, colleagues, have a nice holiday for all of us and good health. We look forward to next year, thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-18-ps2017-039-10-011-999.u49	Thank you. I also wish you all a happy holiday, all good in the new year and a good trip home to my families. Have a nice day.
