ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u1	239. Discussion of the risk of possible financial losses of the Czech Republic in connection with the preliminary report by the European Commission on the investigation of conflicts of interest of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic I will therefore ask the appellant to give the introductory word of this point when I have applications - I already have four - first applications with priority rights, and I will ask the first one entered into the debate by Mr Ivan Bartoš to take up the role of rapporteur. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor. Before you speak, I will ask the House for peace and possible debate on another subject before it has been approved as the first item in today's meeting, transfer it to the foyer to ensure that there is a need for peace and quiet in this meeting. Before you speak, I will announce the order of entries - Ivan Bartoš, Vít Rakušan, Petr Fiala, Radim Fiala. So that's the order of entries. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here to propose a report by the European Commission on the conflict of interests of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. This is another episode of an endless series, I would say even a theatre where part of politicians keeps Czech society in a permanent political war against the outcome of the elections, while these would-be democratic politicians are constantly trying to question the electoral votes of the SPD as well. This is totally unacceptable to the SPD. The first thing that should be said here is that the whole of today's theater takes place above the draft report, which will only be heard by the subjects concerned and the Czech state. And they will, without a doubt, correct it. I personally and also the SPD are clearly opposed to any subsidies that distort the market. We consider it absolutely immoral and destructive if the state or Brussels of all taxpayers' money, i.e. also Czech, supports only some of the selected companies. The fact that the SPD is very critical of European Union policy is widely known. In the past, we know that all the gangs that had an impact on them have done business with subsidies - especially the ODS and the ČSSD, which bribed their policies with subsidies, and their crimes are still being spared by the police and judges. The subsidies were collected by billionaires like Mr Schwarzenberg of the TOP 09, and if there was a mistake, Mr Kalousek, as the then Minister of Finance, arranged indulgences so that the subsidies would not have to return. We all remember this case. But this monstrosity about subsidies is not our invention. And the fact is that, especially in agriculture, this is a major problem, because Western countries are massively financing their farmers and favouring them against ours. Of course, the easiest solution to this situation would be czexit and customs duties on imports of subsidised goods. It should also be heard here - yes, the Prime Minister is actually in conflict of interest, but so is any politician who could or could influence subsidies. And we should be interested to know whether the subsidies to Agrofert went under the same conditions as other agricultural and food subjects. Here it is crucial whether or not Agrofert benefited. Or were the subsidies used for something else? Did Andrej Babiš receive any extra or otherwise benefit from it? No such thing is officially mentioned at this time. It's just that his companies were getting subsidies. Truth be told, the rules must be the same for everyone. And so if there is already a grant title for farmers, I do not see the logic of any company being discriminated against. Schwanzenberg does and Babiš doesn't? [[entered as stated]] Either they both do, or neither of them do. And as I said before, the SPD does not, in principle, agree with this subsidy system. We in the SPD are trying to be fair and we are not taking sides on either side of the dispute. I'd like to finally have a final, official final report in my hand. The SPD movement will then proceed accordingly. And until then, there's no way to draw conclusions because none of us have the final report yet. Of course, the essence is elsewhere. The purpose publication of an audit shot that is not terminated is an attempt to pressure Babiš, but this was caused by Andrej Babiš himself by his actions. Its MEPs in the European Parliament consistently support the migration and policy of the regulation from Brussels. But as part of the election theatre, the prime minister began to argue with the pro-migrant and anti-national policies of his Brussels ALDE faction, thereby desecrating his partners. So, of course, it would have been better for the Prime Minister if he had admitted the color, did not play an act, and simply acknowledged that the vote by his MEPs, when they voted for migration, was entirely in line with what he and his European ALDE faction advocated. I mean, they're pro-migration and anti-national. The only faction defending the national interests of European countries is our faction Europe of Nations and Freedom ENF, headed by Marine Le Pen and Mattee Salvini. And if Mr Babiš meant it, his MEPs would sit among us, not among the multiculturalist, pro-migration, neo-Marxist liberals of the ALDE, who support the current policy of the European Union. In this respect, I do not mind the preliminary draft of a report as we wait for the final version, but I do mind the program fraud on the voters committed by the ANO movement. The voters of ODS, Pirates, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL or STAN knew that they were voting for a pro-migration, pro-Muslim, anti-national policy, but they certainly didn't know that. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a permanent attempt at a coup d'état, when even public Czech Television invites to counter-government demonstrations organized by professional manipulators, which I will explain immediately. Let us take a closer look at one of these demonstrations. At the invitation of the Million Moments Initiative on Old Town Square in Prague, people demonstrate the truth and love against Babiš and Zeman for - in quotation marks. On the stage there, for the applause of the participating citizens, speaking members of ODS, ČSSD, KDU-ČSL and Kalousko's TOP 09 who have a major share in privatization crimes, the current state of executions, health care or insanely low pensions. Moreover, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL are and have been in government with Babiš and have put him in power, while people are protesting against it and applauding these politicians, and on the stage is complemented by a pirát MP. Thanks to the votes of the Babišův Members, both the pirát and the ODS have the position of Vice-Presidents of the House. And on a recent march for legalizing drugs in Prague under the auspices of Pirate Mayor Hřib police punished more than 100 people in connection with possession and distribution of drugs including meth and ecstasy. And all this is being applauded by people at these demonstrations. And in the last few days, I've had several racist and xenophobic threats, including threats of physical violence. Damn it, he knows his way around it. And the best in the end. It is said that many at the same time curse at Okamura and the SPD, while neither I nor the SPD have ever participated in the government. We have never voted for the trust of this or other government, especially because the CSSD is there, and therefore we have neither privatization crimes, nor theft of public money, nor other criminal cases, nor special-purpose laws. Moreover, the SPD is the only one pushing for a referendum, we are the only party that promotes a referendum and direct choice and rebuttal of politicians and their direct substantive responsibility. And the parties mentioned above are preventing it, yet they want to call off Babiš and Zeman while criticizing those who propose the rebuttal and applauding the parties that prevent the appeal. It is clear from the above that this is a targeted manipulation. I would add that I was a little sad when I saw those desperate elderly people clapping there and applauding ODS, CSSD, KDU-ČSL and these parties whose government caused them to be such low pensions. By the way, it was one of the many reasons why I joined politics to remedy this situation. So it's a really weird galimatyas that basically somehow directs these events there, and it basically doesn't make any proper sense. [[16.40 hours]] We in the SPD have huge reservations about this government with the ČSSD. We are critical of a great deal of action, Mr. Prime Minister. But this government was drawn up on the basis of the results of the elections. And as much as we would rather rule, we democratically respect the outcome of the citizens' election in the SPD. Otherwise, I wanted to add to the demonstrations that, of course, everyone has the right to demonstrate, and we are also holding demonstrations. So there's no way I'm questioning people's right to demonstrate. But I've been thinking about the composition of those performers who are really very special. The fact that some political forces are playing a permanent battle against the outcome of the elections and that it is, with the support of really national television, that is more than alarming. Indeed, the fact that part of the elite, using manipulation, is pushing the elite against election results is an effort for a political anti-democratic coup. I will remind you in this context to explain my words, the coup in 1948. The government was won by the Communists who won the election at the time, for the approval of the President. And history calls them coupists. So how do we call those who overthrow a legally elected government that rules with democratic support from democratic parties democratically elected to parliament? I don't care about any subsidy business. But it also bothers me when former Prime Minister Sobotka signed directly and personally, former Prime Minister Sobotka of ČSSD, participated with his partner Bakala, sponsor of ODS and TOP 09, in quotes privatization of OKD. That wasn't a conflict of interest? And we, the SPD, instead of questioning - we will never question the democratic outcome of elections, as some parties are trying here, but we call on all citizens of the Czech Republic: Come to the elections. Come to the elections and hand out political cards in democratic elections. And that's how we're gonna follow the SPD. According to the web application The subsidy parasite systematically supports the Czech Republic, unlike the European trend, large enterprises and holding companies with only one final owner who controls them. The subsidies are granted to companies whose final owners are the richest Czech citizens according to the Forbes ranking. And the database of this website shows that it is Petr Kellner, Andrej Babiš, Daniel Křetínský, Karel Komárek and Jaroslav Strnad. The state massively supports large companies to continue to grow and destroy small businesses and small businesses. That's the problem. The subsidy system that destroys middle class and competition and records oligarchs. This, dear friends, let's solve this, because this is a real problem. Finally, I would like to propose a resolution on behalf of the SPD movement, which we would like to vote on, and it will be voted on: "The House of Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development in connection with the preliminary report by the European Commission on the investigation of conflicts of interest of the Prime Minister to consistently defend the interests of the Czech Republic. In the event of financial damage caused by the Czech Republic by violating Czech laws, we ask for the liability of the culprits." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u3	Thank you, Mr Tomie Okamur. Allow me to state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Minister Antonín Staněk from 16.30 to the end of the day. Now with priority rights, Mr Ivan Bartoš. I can only give a point of fact to President Kalousek during the debate under Section 60, so that after my colleague Bartoš, who is the first to be entered in the debate. [[Coming to the speaker's desk]] Then the debate will take place, we will designate Mr Bartoš as rapporteur and we will continue. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, representatives of the government - there are still some. I just thought that the approved point was not about the offer to exchange the ČSSD for the SPD in the government, but then President Okamura returned the final motion for a resolution a little bit back into the regime that we want to talk about here and what the representatives of the democratic parties voted for to wake up here. I would perhaps also like to respond indirectly to some of the things that have been said here, from the Prime Minister, they also sound in the media. And I'm glad that the Prime Minister can turn to pirát with some sort of ridicule and debauchery of our work, that he can't paint it on us for the traditional political parties that were here in power at the time when he was building his empire based on a relationship with these policies of traditional parties. The Czech Pirate Party, when it came to being a party, which is for digitization, understands the Internet and understands social changes, so one of the things that we have been working very actively as an independent party from the beginning was actually interlinking and increasing the linking of economic and political power. We have pointed them out from the very beginning, regardless of what kind of government was at the time, regardless of the case, whether it was with skarta, whether it was Mr. Drábek, whether it was Mr. Šiška, whether it was the case of Topolánkův's government. So it's nothing that we're selectively dealing with right now in relation to Prime Minister Babiš. I think it is important that the laws in the Czech Republic apply to everyone, so that no one has protection. There were a few things going on here. I like it, sometimes my colleague Ferjenčík shows some graphics. And today I read on the Internet that a picture is better than a thousand words. So this is the graph that ends in 2017, now we have the year 2019. [[shows]] This is no fantasy, as I think the Prime Minister once said on Czech Television, about what your fantasy is. That's from Agrofert's official data. This graph illustrates the steep increase in subsidies to Agrofert following the entry of Andrej Babiš into politics. If I were a schnitzel, I would even try to interpret the graph if Mr. Babiš wasn't a bit of a frog on the spring, because, apparently, Agrofertu was far worse off than after he joined the ANO movement, he became Minister of Finance. And then the data here isn't over 2017, so we can't actually check the qualitative growth much right now because the data isn't there yet. So I hope that the position of Prime Minister or Finance Minister has nothing to do with this once more, but at all, nothing at all. There. Unfortunately, I have a full e-mail of different things from different people, and sometimes I try to call these people, no one answers, it's weird. I have a lot of information there that I'm a snitch, that I'm a snitch, that the pirát are fighting the good of the Czech Republic. And even by the Prime Minister's mouth, it has been said several times that he doesn't make much of a difference between it - I have a problem, the Czech Republic has a problem. It really struck me that the Prime Minister can say in one sentence "we will not return anything, it is quite clear that we will show Europe" and then in the second sentence we will have a completely independent analysis and the answer will arise. Among other things, Mr Kalousek mentioned that in his speech before the meeting was approved. I would now turn only historically to this - and it has to do with the audit - what is in the Czech Republic from the point of view of the activities of the Pirate Party, where dialogue between individual ministries and ministries and our criticism, which is not really targeted at one person, has always been a primary concern. After all, the problem with the European Financial Regulation, which has been here before, has only been significantly tightened here, indeed, other members of the government have. We have been discussing from the beginning that the participation of Minister Toman may also be problematic. [[16.50 hours]] But only chronologically. In July 2018, we presented an analysis, an independent analysis, which talked about the problems of the Prime Minister due to the Czech law against conflicts of interest. It was a period when the European Union's financial regulation against conflicts of interest was also to enter into force. Because our dialogue with SZIF and ministries - and I do not believe that every minister has not been seduced from his apparatus, that something is actively being resolved, that someone is interested in something, or that the interpellation forgets when he leaves this House's hall and somehow has dealt with them - so we have tried to find out from ministries and individual bodies how they will behave after the European Financial Regulation enters into force. We've learned everything's fine. We therefore asked three European Commissioners, and the content of this question was that in the Czech Republic the ministries are probably not prepared to start the new rules and whether the ministries could be given a methodology to implement this. Because of our data and the data from the Slovak register of final owners, the analysis that we had from Scandinavian lawyers, what role the person imagined plays, we had reason to suspect that in the future there might be a risk that the Czech Republic would pay money under grant schemes and these would not be paid by the European Union to the Czech Republic or would have to be refunded and the money would be paid by the Czech taxpayer. In September and November 2018, we stressed, communicated with the authorities - with MMR, with the Ministry of Finance - regarding compliance with Czech and European regulations for conflict of interest. Once again, we've been told that everything is okay. I have even met here during my visit to the Euro Commissioner for Regional Policy Corina Cretu, who was a guest of the Committee on European Affairs, and I have once again asked her about the procedure on this matter. Now I could go chronologically as long as this problem is on the table. Finally, we sent four calls to the authorities under three ministries - the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development - to start following European and Czech regulations for conflict of interest after the European Commission's legal opinion on conflict of interest appeared in the media. This is December 2018. This was already carried out by an audit by the European Commission, which focused on specific periods. And yes, it deals with how the Czech law on conflict of interest, which has been used since the beginning as a battering ram by the government ministers of Andrej Babiš in order to obscure the fact that this tightened legislation originating in the European Union has also been discussed from the beginning. The European Commission was not very active. So we've actually been listening here for a year that this is a different campaign, let it be a Christmas campaign, a campaign for November 17th, a campaign for the election. However, even after information was received from the European Commission that the audit results would be sent to the Czech Republic in January, then in May, Commissioner Oettinger said so too, so it did not happen, and so on Friday the way that was marked as non-standard, however, I would like to point out that none of the outgoing ministers did not question the authenticity or authenticity of the document, so if we saw a little bit of the theatre for any viewers here, yes, it was said here that the document was delivered to the Czech ministries, perhaps the Magistrate of the capital city of Prague has it also some way, so no one questioned the authenticity of this document, which was produced by the European Commission, it was prepared by auditors. In December, the European Commission's legal department, which was the top lawyers who dealt with European law for individual countries of the European Union, drew up a legal position that was once again put into the media in December. About the audit - it's 75 pages. I am glad that it has been quoted here, which means that at least the answers to questions from government parties, but also the opposition, of course, ministers have a translation, whether the legal translation, I do not know, was quoted here from this report, so its content is familiar with individual resorts. And the audit requirement was, the basic requirement was to find out if the management and control systems are in line with the legal framework that should lead to a conflict of interests. First, the scope of the audit was to verify the compliance of the management and control system with the applicable rules and their effective functioning leading to the avoidance of conflicts of interest, verification of the system and procedures related to allocated funds in 2007 to 2013 and 2014 to 2020, detailed analysis of selected projects, revision of the work of audit authorities, including audit systems. In short, the audit looked into the management system and control system in connection with the conflict of interest and examined individual projects in the context of the redistribution of subsidies. The audit report, although it often contains only indicators of what was found, and indeed the final version will be based on the communication of the Czech ministries, or the official apparatus, with the European Commission, the main points that have been raised in it correspond to what we were at the initial stage, that is, in July 2018, on the basis of the analyses available at that time and confirmed by the December finding of the European legislative body under the European Commission, so confirmed that Andrej Babiš is in conflict of interest and that Agrofert was receiving subsidies unduly in some cases. Financial corrections should therefore be provided. It has already been said several times from my previous speakers and from individual ministers that the final amount may vary, but this report, which came to the Czech Republic on Friday, speaks of large numbers, and that these corrections would be withdrawn from these figures to zero, i.e. to 0 per cent, and the conclusion that everything is okay, at this point no one is expecting. The report also very strongly describes the failure of the control mechanism and the state administration, which is not much in line with what was being said here through the speeches of Minister Dostálová. That is why it is really important to see if the government should take appropriate steps, and we can monitor at this point, it has been done by the media that the Czech financing of the projects continues to take place. SZIF is now ready to sign a contract for about 40 million in subsidies, and so if we now have such a serious finding in hand, no matter how long the communication between the European Commission and the Czech Republic will take place, it is certainly not desirable at this time that the subsidy programmes on non-interest subsidies to firms that are parked in the trust fund of a member of the government are not required to release the money. Maybe I'll perform later in the debate if we discuss the various parts of the audit. We, together with the parties in the Chamber of Deputies, have formulated, not only with parties that can be classified as opposition, the basic thesis last Friday. I would like to thank you for the fact that, in a slightly unconventional form and point of the House, the approval of this point, the inclusion of this point, and I hope that together we will also come to a satisfactory position, which the House will then approve of the government, because the situation is serious. At this point, it is the money of our citizens, and I hope that Prime Minister Babiš will proceed forcefully in this matter if these findings are confirmed, and it will be from companies, or from his former firm, then according to his "hard and uncompromising" electoral slogan to the European Parliament, to demand compensation that is currently falling on the shoulders of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u5	Thank you to President Ivan Bartoš. I ask him if under § 57 para. 3 agrees to be the rapporteur for this item of the programme. Agreed. I'm asking if the House wants to vote on it. It is not necessary, only the consent of the Member is required. They agree, so if you do not insist on voting, Ivan Bartoš will be the rapporteur for this press. Since I have opened the debate, I can invite Mr Miroslav Kalousek to make a point of fact, and the second performer is Vít Rakušan, I have another six registered with priority rights and two duly registered. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I only wanted to convey your request to President Okamur. In his long speech, he mentioned the Honorary Chairman of my party and referred to him as Mr Schwanzenberg. I was going to ask him as a member of the House of Deputies to remember that the oldest member of us is called Schwarzenberg. For your information, Vice-President Okamura, through Mr President, Schwarz is German black, while Schwanz is translated as a tail. [[Glee in the hall.]] [[17,00 hours]] I understand that, given our mentality, education, and education, we all tend to come to terms. However, despite all this, I would like to ask you if you could call our Honorable President his real name. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u7	I thank my colleague Kalousek for keeping time on a point of fact. Mr Vít Rakušan will now speak with priority rights. President Petr Fiala has applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I simply have to go back to the way the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic spoke here at the plenary of Andrej Chamber of Deputies. One note to start with. I would really like to experience here in this House - I am a beginner after all - that there will be a prime minister standing here with the same enthusiasm, the same vehemence, the same effort to talk about the fundamental problems of the Czech Republic, discussing the problems of our educational system, discussing our competitiveness in the global world, discussing drought problems, solve environmental challenges. However, we are experiencing here, and only because our Prime Minister has a long-term problem, which is called conflict of interest, so we are experiencing a completely different situation here. We have a prime minister here who speaks strangely, who speaks very forcefully, who can scold his political opponents, who can point out all the injustices that have happened to him in life, who can show him how successful he is, with his success measured only by the money he earns, but he keeps talking about himself and talking about his problem all the time. He told us here today that the whole audit, the whole audit report, was an attack on the Czech Republic. This is illustrated by the only one - the mentality of Prime Minister Babiš is as follows: I am the Czech Republic. Agrofert is Czech Republic. We hear here from the Prime Minister of the movement, which has recently been formulated as a pro-European movement, the sentence that the European Union is now attacking him and Agrofert, which is not really his - so why is he defending it? - they're attacking the whole Czech Republic. One of the arguments was what these controllers are really doing here. Thus, the European Union, which provides European money, will certainly check that European standards are respected and that European rules are respected when subsidies are being drawn in the Czech Republic. At the same time, Andrej Babiš does not hesitate to point out to everyone else that they are the ones who have done nothing. He says you didn't build, friends, or a doghouse, you don't know what business is. Here are a few pictures showing projects subsidized from European Union funds. [[shows]] These are projects that have undergone proper control and have not been found to be defective. These projects were built by mayors in their cities and municipalities, followed all the rules in drawing funds from the European Union. And since the mayors, I've been on the challenge of "show us that you've built more than a doghouse," within a week he's received about 300 very interesting pictures. The Prime Minister draws subsidies for new production lines in his bread shop. The Prime Minister draws subsidies into his large agri-businesses. And, of course, he's the man who co-defines the rules of drawdown. He, as Prime Minister, should even be responsible for the rules for drawing in the next period being set as it will suit the Czech Republic. Is it still possible to believe at this point, with such great suspicion of conflict of interest, that Andrej Babiš will actually fight for the interests of the Czech Republic and that Andrej Babiš will actually negotiate rules for drawing subsidies in the next period so that it is for the benefit of our country's citizens? We hear one sentence from Andrej Babiš over and over again: "I did a huge stupid thing about going into politics, it was my fault, I shouldn't have done it." She may be one of the few sentences where we agree with him as opposition. But it has one other dimension. After all, Andrej Babiš can solve his problem immediately, resolve it clearly and resolve it permanently - decide whether he is a politician or a businessman. That is why we call on Andrej Babiš to make a decision, and we strongly recommend him to prefer business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u9	I'm the next one registered with priority rights, so I'd like Vice-President Pikal to relieve me for a while.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u10	Yes, I'm taking over the chair. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, lately we have become accustomed here in the Czech Republic to the fact that we consider normal things that are not normal at all, but I think it is necessary to remind ourselves of what is normal in politics and what goes beyond those which have always been true and which democracy should not cross. I'm gonna try to relive these things and make it clear. I am glad that, although in such a special form, we have succeeded in putting this item on the agenda of today's meeting, but I must say at the same time that the reasons for this point in today's meeting probably could not occur elsewhere in Europe and certainly could not occur at any other time in the Czech Republic, unfortunately with the exception of the current period. Had Andrej Babiš found himself in this situation five or fifteen years ago, he could not have stayed 24 hours. It would be unthinkable. And I am convinced that in the next five years, it will be unthinkable again. It would be unthinkable, among other things, because there isn't a government majority that tolerates it. And I believe that long after this majority, which is now here, there will be no such majority. It would be unthinkable, because the Czech Republic has not yet, and I believe that it will not in the future, the Prime Minister, who would be suspected of dubious transactions supporting his entrepreneurial empire from unjustified subsidies and benefits that a typical Czech entrepreneur does not have, and who would dare to claim that the accusations and charges against him by the Czech authorities and the findings of the institutions of the European Commission are an international and domestic conspiracy against him. It is clear here that either the Prime Minister has lost his ability to perceive reality or is deliberately deceiving the public. And in order for such Prime Minister to be in office for just 24 hours, it would have been unthinkable in the Czech Republic before, because there would have been no journalist and commentator, who would have seemed normal and admissible for the authorities of our state to investigate, accuse, and even judge the prosecution against the Prime Minister and his family and the European institutions have found a fundamental conflict of interest in behalf of his company, and he would have remained Prime Minister. It would be unthinkable, because there would not have been a politically judgmental person in or outside this House in the Czech Republic who would have quite seriously thought that the European Commission, its auditors, were part of some huge international conspiracy against the person of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, a conspiracy that is controlled from abroad, from the Czech Republic, or from where I do not know. And it would be particularly unthinkable, ladies and gentlemen, because if the Prime Minister didn't understand it himself in the past, his own party would understand. His own party would understand the extent of the personal problem and would nominate someone else for this position and would continue to rule until the whole situation is resolved. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this has been the case in the past, and this is how democracy works, which the Prime Minister scornfully calls standard or traditional, or what name he uses. This is how the political parties, ladies and gentlemen, which the Prime Minister calls traditional or standard in his concept. [[17.10 hours]] Our problem, and that needs to be said, and that needs to be named, and that needs to be acknowledged, because it is not only that the Prime Minister has problems, it just happens and it hasn't happened for the first time. Our problem is that the Prime Minister has lost sound judgment or is knowingly not telling the truth, and his YES movement is pretending that there is no problem. But he does exist, and I can assure you that in the long run, no one will stick their head in the sand. Public political debate in the Czech Republic around the Prime Minister's personal problems often turns to percentages of popularity, political marketing, etc. But we are here Parliament of the Czech Republic, Chamber of Deputies, we cannot make excuses for percentages of support for this or that politician or political party. We are here to make decisions that stand up to the demands of the quality of democracy, political morality, yes, which will stand up to common sense. Ladies and gentlemen, last autumn, in this House, we were forced to propose a vote of distrust to the Prime Minister. It turned out that the Prime Minister did not personally have the majority support in this House, but there were not enough votes to appeal it. So the Prime Minister defended his position in a constitutional manner but did not receive personal political support. I believe that the Civil Democratic Party is convinced that the time has come for the Prime Minister to ask the Chamber of Deputies for confidence, and that, in saying or not expressing confidence, every Member must answer the questions before himself and before his voters whether the Prime Minister is actually facing an international conspiracy or admit that the Prime Minister is suspected of circumventing Czech laws and binding European legislative rules; whether we wish the Czech taxpayer to subsidize the Prime Minister's business and profits; to ask if we think that the Prime Minister is highly suspected of improperly drawing on European subsidies can also strongly defend Czech national interests in this situation. Yes, these questions should be answered and answered by each Member in voting on trust to himself and to his constituents. And I believe that none of the people in this Chamber really think so. But I am not convinced, and I admit it, I am not convinced that anyone in this House can confirm this by voting. It's a political stalemate, we know it from last fall. But today we have one more problem compared to the autumn, and the problem has two dimensions. One dimension is hundreds of millions, so far, and it could be billions, we all know it. And the other dimension is just as serious. I mean, even if it turns out that Mr. Babiš and his company were formally parked in the so-called "Babiš." the trust fund can disprove some formal procedures for allocating subsidies, so it certainly cannot disprove strong, clear, one could say hard and uncompromising arguments about the fact that the entire trust fund is in fact one meaningless formality, which we all know as we sit here; that there was a law that had politically justified the existence of Andrej Babiš in an executive, but in the end nothing has changed. The owner is really Andrej Babiš and it is understandable - it is understandable if he acts in favour of his business and his business takes place in his favour. I, ladies and gentlemen, said here in the autumn that it is humanly understandable that the Prime Minister cannot separate his personal interests and personal problems from the office of Prime Minister and therefore does not perform the position of Prime Minister, that even if he wanted to, he must try to develop before the law, and that is also his constitutional right of citizen, and will certainly try again in this case not to suffer his entrepreneurial empire. It's quite a natural instinct. It is quite natural and understandable that he will protect his personal interests and the interests of his family harshly and uncompromisingly. It's understandable. But that is precisely why, for these very reasons, he is not to be Prime Minister, and for these very reasons, he needs to ask the Chamber of Deputies for their trust again. And if the Prime Minister is hard and uncompromisingly defending his personal interests and the interests of his family, we are here to protect the interests of citizens and the interests of Czech taxpayers harshly and uncompromisingly. Therefore, if the Prime Minister does not ask for confidence, it is our duty to harshly and uncompromisingly protect people's interests from the interests of the Prime Minister and protect Czech interests from the personal interests of the Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the Civil Democratic Party will act accordingly!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u12	I would like to thank the Vice-President, and I would now like to thank the President of the SPD Radim Fiala, who is next with priority rights. Then I have two more priority rights here. The President will prepare himself Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u13	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, my dear government, the case of the European Commission's report must be dealt with in a matter of fact and with a clear aim of protecting the interests of the Czech Republic. That's why we called this point this way. It must be underlined that our SPD movement will never support violations of our laws, and we will always insist on compensation if this country comes from breaking the law. Now, about the whole case. Let me make a few comments. One. The case is not under investigation and here we are acting on the basis of unofficial leaks of information into the media. Nevertheless, it is important to say that this does not mean that there is no risk for the Czech Republic. At this point, it is necessary for the Ministry of Finance, in particular, to comment responsibly on the report and to say what steps it can take and take to eliminate potential risks. We certainly don't underestimate them at all. The Treasury must inform us of its assessment of the content of the report and tell us if there could be a violation of the law. Two. There is no other way but to reiterate that the system of European subsidies is an inefficient socialist tool for economic governance that destroys the market environment. It does not belong in the business environment systemically. It creates a corrupt environment here. The environment to abuse the influence of the influential, but also the environment to pressure the recipient by means of bureaucracy and subjective controls. Thousands of subsidy beneficiaries have experience from the audit conclusions, the resolution of objections, and they well know that it is essential to wait for the definitive conclusion of the case. We have heard here today how many mayors have built the various necessary things from these subsidies, I understand that, but also many of them have been dealing with the very subjective checks and the problems they have had to deal with so that they have not been going into these subsidies lately. Three. Our movement is not part of this government and we have never supported this government. If there were evidence of a violation of the law in connection with obtaining European subsidies for the Agrofert Group, it would be a mega-substantiation to the business environment in the Czech Republic, and the government's policy would be reduced to a private business case where losses are borne by the taxpayer. It would also be a fundamental betrayal on the voters of this country. In this case, what I pointed out in the introduction applies - our country's interests come first. [[17.20 hours]] Four. It must be said that today is an obvious attempt to use this case to take steps that are trying to deny the outcome of the elections. The leaks of information, the feverish activity of political activists, the organizational information coverage of Czech Television all fit into the mosaic of the Majdan organization. There's no doubt who's behind this. At the end of this string are global elites from Brussels. And now, Prime Minister, the YES movement must finally realise that what does not fully govern the globalists of Brussels is ruining this. The SPD movement does and will do policies that hinder the interests of this country. We want her free and democratic. The election voter must decide on the government and we respect the outcome of the election. We honor the Constitution of this country, and today it is nothing less than these values. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to finally share with you the opinion of my political colleague - our political partner, Vice-President of the Italian Government, Matte Salvini. I am simply quoting freely: the time when we were terrified of what the European Commission sent us is long gone. So let us stop fucking with what is in the European Commission's reports in advance. On the other hand, let's let our institutions do their thing - in this case, the Ministry of Finance in particular - and then let's act accordingly. Also, according to the password, fall to who. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u14	Thank you. President Výborný, President Michálek will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u15	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I must say that today's time could certainly be used better than dealing with problems, personal problems, business problems of the Prime Minister. All it took was one thing. And I want to say it perfectly calmly and rationally. On Friday, when the information on the audit report, on the preliminary audit report appeared, the KDU-ČSL MP together with other clubs - ODS, Pirates, STAN, TOP 09 and others, eventually government social democracy signed up for it - clearly called on the Prime Minister to make a few brief observations. If the Prime Minister had already spoken on Friday and said, "I have not read the report, I will get acquainted with it, of course, that the government will draw up an objective, transparent way, we will introduce you, the Chamber of Deputies, the reply to the European Commission, and, if subsequently, the Czech Republic will be affected by any financial restrictions, so no matter who it is, fall to whom it is, these subsidies, which have been paid unlawfully, will be where the European Commission will actually find errors, so they will be returned" so today we could focus on what is needed. We could talk about financing sports, we could talk about conflict of interest, we could talk about other thousands, as was the program. Instead, we have only one, and that is accusing the Prime Minister of everyone and everything. We have heard absurd words here about the fact that the European Commission is responsible for the growing deficit of the state budget of the Czech Republic, so that really seems preposterous to me. We've heard here that everything is a lie, everything is a campaign, everything is nonsense, everything is a purpose. We have heard here the litany from other members of the government that the European Commission, European officials, interpret everything in their own way, that they do not respect or respectively. that they despise Czech laws etc. I have to say, in vain, I remembered in vain when the ministers of the government, this government, so fiercely and passionately defended the interests of one company, one company, one company, one holding. Really speaking with such enthusiasm in favour of someone here who is the second richest Čech, I find it very, very remarkable and very special. Maybe if it was anybody else, he'd rather have the Financial Administration on him, and we know how these things turn out, how things turn out. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said here. And I think it is necessary to recall again - the Prime Minister has to choose what he wants to do primarily. If it's his private business, or if it's the country's politics and administration. The conflict of interest, which here is quite obvious and quite obvious, can no longer be a problem and a ball to the foot. Balls at the foot not only of this government, but of the whole Czech Republic. This thing has another dimension and this is the reputation of the Czech Republic abroad. KDU-ČSL clearly states that it is not possible, it is not possible for the Czech Republic to continue to be harmed in this unprecedented way and to harm the national interests of the Czech Republic abroad. It is not possible for the personal problems of the Prime Minister, one member of the government, even the Prime Minister, to overshadow the other necessary steps of the decisions and tasks that this government and this Chamber of Deputies must do. We have a number of key things here. We're supposed to talk about the Supreme Audit Office's report, we're supposed to talk about state budget issues, we're supposed to talk about funding social services. And there's no way that one topic in this way overshadows everything else. KDU-ČSL, and this has not yet been quite clear here today, and I want to stress this - KDU-ČSL calls on companies that are controlled by trust funds, because the government continues to pay these subsidies from our national sources. This threatens if the report is verified by the European Commission that the problem, the subsidy problem for the Czech Republic, will continue to deepen. Because it is so that the Prime Minister is right about one thing. Indeed, the Czech Republic will not return anything to the European Union. But the Czech Republic will be reduced by funding for other programmes on the basis of the decision of the European Commission. This practically means that the problem will fall on other applicants, small small farmers, or on schools and other institutions, municipalities, cities that ask for European subsidies. That is why we are really calling on the government - and it has not sounded from the mouth of either minister or Prime Minister, if I have listened well - to immediately suspend the payment of non-interest subsidies to companies from Agrofert. And another thing, and that's also very important. The Prime Minister can talk here for three hours, four hours, he can talk here about lies, nonsense, about not returning a crown, but I am convinced that the Prime Minister knows very well, he knows very well that if this preliminary audit report is confirmed, then there will be nothing left for the Czech Republic but really to return the funds, virtually. the Czech Republic will be shortened by these funds. The answer needs to be drawn up by the government in an objective way, transparently. And then it is necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to be familiar with this answer as well. And it should also be considered whether this reply should be supervised by the Supreme Audit Office, because in the end it also belongs to its tasks and duties, because if you look into the Supreme Audit Office Act, then § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) it is clear that the Supreme Audit Office is supervising the management of funds and funds provided by the Czech Republic from abroad. So clearly here too is the competence of the Supreme Audit Office. On this basis, there will indeed be certainty that the answer is drawn up in an objective transparent manner and we must then wait to see how the European Commission stands up to this. We therefore call on the Prime Minister to face the matter rather than the one who will only dig around him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes for today's hearing between 18 and 19 o'clock because of a doctor's visit. President Michálek's speech is next, Mr Jurečka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u17	Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, it is totally unacceptable for the Prime Minister's private projects to be paid by Czech taxpayers. We have now seen that 161 million crowns have paid off from the Czech national budget for projects that are in favour of Agrofert, and the European Union does not want to pay them off now. This is an attack on the Czech Republic. This is an attack on the Czech Republic, not an audit report from Brussels. It surprises me, apart from the fact that the Prime Minister is not here, that the Minister of Finance is not here, when the Chamber of Deputies discusses financial losses, that the Minister of Agriculture is not here, so I am surprised that the Prime Minister's speech was not very factual, but that the Prime Minister was mainly engaged in kicking into a number of renowned organizations. I'll start with Transparency International, which the Prime Minister called a corrupt organization. I would like to ask, through Mr President, Mr absent Prime Minister, why did you appoint the Director of the corrupt Transparency International Prague mayor? Why did she lead an YES candidate to the election when she led, as you say, a corrupt Transparency International organization? I'd like to ask you why you talked about naming Mr. Ondračka as Home Secretary, the next director of this corrupt organization. So I'm guessing you're a little inconsistent. And we're good to go. You've been giving as an example of the good practice of audits that took place in the ROP Northwest, and then you're Mr. Wagenknecht, who was your deputy, and who also did these audits, which you stated as an example of good practice, so you said he was a psychopathic informer to offer him the post of political deputy. Again, very difficult to understand by the Prime Minister. With regard to the European Commission, which you have also been kicking, I think that even if we look at the requirements that need to be met to become an official of the European Commission, which are very strict, the European Commission is not a bunch of morons who would be fooled by putting your wife, your children, Mr Průša, Mr Průša and Mr Knotek in the company, who are Agrofert's lawyers, and you will pass it off as an independent entity. They didn't swallow it in the Capi Nest case, and they probably won't buy it this time. The last thing I want to illustrate about your fight against corruption is your claim that 35 billion crowns have been stolen from these subsidies. That is why I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, how the Ministry of Finance proceeded to enforce these claims - because the Ministry of Finance, of course, has a significant position - when you were the Minister of Finance. I wonder how many of those 35 billion crowns you've raised. I think that Members and the Chamber of Deputies deserve to know that. Now we're actually going to go back to the ethos of the fight against corruption, when you said there was an anti-corruption movement, yes. I was just looking at your work at Brno-Medium, where Mr. Švachula selected 10 percent for the ANO movement. So if you were here criticizing the ODS for picking 3 to 7 percent of the contract price, you even beat them by 3%. Well, congratulations, then! [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] I note that these are construction contracts, i.e. those contracts that are the most expensive. What we're watching here isn't some petty corruption of some small order somewhere in Brno-center. What we're watching here is a systematic phenomenon called takeover of the state, and it's the last stage of corruption, where everything happens organised within the state, and it happens completely legally. It begins with the fact that whoever takes over the state, in this case Agrofert, Andrej Babiš, sets the same rules according to which subsidies are paid, according to which control mechanisms are set and so on. This is what we have seen here, for example, when Andrej Babiš, or his movement, promoted the interests of Agrofert to put subsidies on the table, and this was reflected in the position of the Czech Republic in negotiations at the level of the European Union. The other part is that Babišův's people are asking for the subsidies themselves. That means in Agrofert. [[The MP brought a paper bag called PENAM to the speaker's desk, placing it on the speaker's counter, pulling out toast bread with a large price tag of 100,000.]] This is, of course, the famous case of Penam when Penam received a grant of CZK 100 million. Of course, we are all logically asking why Mr. Babiš's private project is to receive a $100 million grant. I brought it here to see Mr. Faltýnek, 100 million toasts of taxpayers' money, which your holding, Mr. Babiš's holding company, paid off. I think it's completely inadequate, that it's a caller to heaven, and that we really can't keep doing this. There are, of course, more subsidies. The Prime Minister spoke of sausages, so I ask again why the Prime Minister's company received CZK 4.2 million to subsidize - to subsidize the taxpayers' money from Kostelecký kaziny, a comprehensive energy saving project in Kostelec. Let the Prime Minister enjoy the sausages, I don't mind at all, but let him buy his things with his own. That's a simple message. At the moment he's prime minister and splits the subsidies, his people can't ask for them at the same time. The takeover system continues to be part of the decision-making process of the subsidies that we have already discussed, and the European Union has criticised that the control mechanisms are poorly set up. Basically, people who are nominated directly by the Prime Minister's governing party are coming into these control mechanisms, and unfortunately, this continues in the Czech Republic, as well as in relation to media control, when the Prime Minister owns about a third of the media market in the field of printed matter, it is the Young Front, iToday and so on, and even tries to control the public media in parallel; what we are facing is basically tomorrow's control of the Czech News Agency's Council, so that YES and SPD have a majority there. This is an organization that has so far had a very good reputation and which supplies news coverage to 90 percent of online media. So now we're basically continuing the process of controlling the state. What about us as the opposition who were third in the election? So we can't nominate a single representative, we haven't gotten a single seat in all the different non-interest supervisory boards, in the audit bodies. So in this way, control mechanisms are set up in the Czech Republic. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister, who's not here right now, to consider whether he wants the bread and the sausages, if he doesn't want to pay for it on his own, and if he doesn't want to stop at the State Treasury. In order not to eat like this, I decided to give him one package of toast, including the price tag that Czech taxpayers from the national budget have to pay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u18	Thank you. Mr Jurečka will now speak in the debate, Mr Adamec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u19	Thank you. vážený President, members of the government... Yes, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, let me also respond to this point. I would like to say that what I think is not good and what does not shed a good light on the whole matter, which is not pleasant for any of us, for the Czech Republic, for citizens, for entrepreneurs, for us who have ever had something to do with the administration and drawing of European funds, is, among other things, the way in which the Prime Minister and some members of the government approach it. I think that if we were to say absolutely factually here on Friday, calmly "yes, I am Prime Minister, we have received such reports as possible, and we will publish them, I will cooperate with the audit authorities, or with law enforcement authorities, and I feel innocent, I have no feeling that I have committed anything wrong," so I think it would shed a completely different light and we would have a completely different feeling of the matter. [[17.40 hours]] If there is already a clear declaration about how it is a campaign, how it is a purpose, how it is bad media here, and how the whole audit report is wrong, how the Czech authorities are tearing it apart, etc., it is certainly nothing to suggest here that the movement that was created on the basis of those strong topics, such as that it will be a transparent, anti-corruption movement, and so on, unfortunately, the Prime Minister does not say that he would have a completely clean conscience and that he would have so much faith in this matter. I have also experienced these unpleasant matters, when a week before the 2017 elections on the front pages of some journals it was written that a criminal report had been filed on my person. I've seen a whole year and a half of the law enforcement authorities dealt with it until they finally postponed the case. But at the time it came, and the week before the election, it's not a pleasant thing, and I don't wish it on any politician. So I have in this, Prime Minister, and I understand that a person is, let's say, angry at the moment, and sometimes he feels like there's soot in him. But then I said, I'm innocent, I'm ready to cooperate with law enforcement authorities, I'm ready to be released by the House if asked to. And I didn't have the slightest problem. A few weeks ago, when the catastrophic situation in the woods was discussed and the Ministry's possible misconduct during my time of work and my people working under me, I contacted the law enforcement authorities myself and said: I want to come voluntarily as a politician to give an explanation. That's a normal fair approach, not to avoid responsibility, not to shoot, not to attack, and if I have a clear conscience, I'm going to go and explain these things and make it clear. What struck me here on Friday and today was, Prime Minister, your argument. You used here as one of the main points of argument that, in 2017, the European Commission stated that there was a suspicion of a conflict of interests between the three members of the Supervisory Board of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, Mr Faltýnek, Mr Faltynek and Mr Kudel, three Members of the House, who were sent by the House to this Supervisory Board. And then I also said that I thought the European Commission was wrong, and I was the minister under whom the answers were prepared and the arguments were refuted, and I even personally discussed this with DG Agri's representatives at the time, to tell them what competence the Supervisory Board has. Yes, it took a long time, but we disproved the arguments. And you're saying here in this story that all the Commission can theoretically blame you for today is the campaign. But I, above all, would say one important thing to my colleagues here, but to the public, is point 2 August 2018 when a new European regulation has been in place since this August to address a possible conflict of interests among politicians in drawing public money. And according to this regulation, there is also a conflict between those who have an economic interest in drawing subsidies and those who are also involved in implementing the budget. This is also confirmed by the European Commission's legal service report, according to which Andrej Babiš is in conflict of interest. The document states that the Prime Minister is interested in the economic success of Agrofert, which he has placed in the trust fund, and as Prime Minister, he has the opportunity to influence decisions relating to the use of funds coming from the European budget. And I think that's the key to changing the situation. And your government and Minister of Agriculture Toman knew about this change of legislation, even the Minister at the meeting of the first Council of Agriculture Ministers at which he was present, so the Council actually approved this regulation. And I think that when a judgmental person reads this definition, which is valid from 2 August 2018, it is so hard to explain that you are not in conflict of interest. I dare take it personally. If I were the Minister of Agriculture after 2 August 2018, I would venture to say that I would also be in conflict of interest. Because when I joined the Ministry, then under the law in force, I had to end my self-employment of a private farmer within 30 days. According to the laws in force, you could have owned Agrofert at the time, but I had to end it within 30 days. I transferred this small family farm, about 25 hectares, to my wife. But I want to say, since 2002, when I've managed privately until now, this farm, we've never asked for any investment subsidies, we've never even tried it, and we've never asked for a so-called refund since I was in politics. green diesel. This is a significant difference, because I was aware that as a politician, one should approach certain things with a precautionary principle and at a time when it may not have been necessary by law, but when I could threaten whether or not I was in conflict of interest, I simply did not do and do those things. Then you also said and mocked us here as opposition, as KDU-ČSL, that we do not have topics. What would we do without these matters? We are not at all pleased that we have to deal with this here in the Chamber of Deputies. We have topics. We've presented a lot of laws and novels. The increase in child discounts for working parents, the reduction of several VAT rates, even the reduction of VAT to heat, involving more than 4.2 million people in this Republic, has passed through this House. We have repeatedly proposed and proposed to adjust pensions, increase pensions for mothers who had children, increase widow's pensions, early retirement for parents who raised children. We have proposed a contribution, an increase, a care allowance, a teacher's salary adjustment, and we are dealing with the financing of social services. I submitted a bill on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, we helped you as an YES movement here to enforce and approve foreign missions. And I could go on. It is quite a lot that we, as KDU-ČSL MEPs, are doing and promoting in this parliamentary term as well. Yes, we're doing well. I'm getting close to my conclusion. I think that your concern, too, should be that the answer to this, albeit preliminary, finding this audit committee is as transparent as possible not only to us, but to the public and to the authorities in Brussels. I would like to ask you and through this and also personal, which I will do by letter to the President of the Supreme Audit Office of Kal, that the Supreme Audit Office should also issue an opinion on the communications communicated by the European Commission to the Czech Republic. And I will allow myself to do one last thing, which may not have been mentioned much today, but I do not consider it normal that the company which falls into Agrofert's holding should exploit small businessmen to provide a subsidy under the Employment Operational Programme for the training of its employees in such a way that these entrepreneurs do not even know about it. I think it's a big step, big foul, and I think you should clearly distance yourself from it and you should also draw from it, or your trust fund, personnel implications. Because even if it wasn't pumped, it was an attempt at fraud. And I want to ask the law enforcement authorities to check all the applications, even the unsuccessful ones, such cases without the knowledge of another person was used by a small and medium-sized business entity to try to make a grant that otherwise the large company could not obtain from the logical conditions of setting the operating program. [[Nesroz.]] Please, let's not take this lightly. I don't want to be here, and I said it in my speech that I don't want to judge anyone, I didn't judge you here, I just asked not to put stickers in advance, that there's someone here who does it as a mark-up, who goes against you and so on, but not just as a man, but as the responsible prime minister of this state, and show that you're interested in making these things really fair, transparently explained, so that they don't repeat themselves, because unfortunately, even now, these cases will have negative effects on entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. As with the cases of the ROP Northwest, and similarly, the conditions for applicants have been tightened dramatically during this period and sometimes there is also a senseless administration involved, so this case, which is now running, will unfortunately have a negative impact in the future in the next programming period on the further increase of the administration for all others, I dare say, most of them honestly requesting entities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Let me introduce you to my apologies. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes today from 16.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. The Minister of Transport Kremlík apologizes from 18 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work, and Mrs Jana Černochová apologises from 18 10 to the end of the day for reasons of employment. It is Mr Adamec's turn in the general debate as the last one so far. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u21	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will try to be brief, over the matter, and comment on the course of today's negotiations. Clearly, we are failing to separate the state from Agrofert. Lexba simply failed when, according to the preliminary audit report of the European Commission, it clearly does not work, it is necessary to admit it. By the way, it took us decades at the church to do it, and we did it in the end, so we're gonna get it back. So that's what you need to say in the introduction. Now let me respond to some of the things that have happened here. The Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, responded at the beginning of today's meeting with an attack. Obviously by attack, because it's an old password that the best defense is always an attack. And, of course, there was spitting on the right side, even pointing. I've told him before when he points, so let him point to specific faces. Let him say the specific names of who stole something here, let him say the specific names of who was convicted in the grant cases, make sure it's specific and doesn't say it here - you criminals on the right, you caused everything. Oh, by the way, speaking of traditional parties, that amuses me, too. Apart from the pirát who are the new party, they're young, so when I look to the left here from each other and maybe even a little bit in the middle, I see a lot of the faces of the original traditional parties here. So what are we playing at? Are there any new people here? When I look behind me - he's no longer here at the moment, but there is a fellow minister - well, those are also the faces of traditional parties. Just because they're not there today doesn't mean they weren't here at the time the Prime Minister is talking about. That's what needs to be said. So we know who he's gonna spit on next. It's up to you, too. Now let's get back to the subsidies. I've heard a lot of information here today about subsidies that amuse me. I think that the subsidies were in the Czech Republic and before joining the European Union. I thought it was wrong myself. But perhaps in some cases, such as compensation charges to neglected regions, this can be seen positively. When you look at European subsidies, it's not some money that's in the air. This is, in fact, the money that Member States send to Europe and at the time of adoption of Europe they become European money. And, of course, Europe does not know any other way than to balance subsidies at the moment, and it is true that if we want to be members of the European Union, we cannot just choose what we like and what we do not like and point out that the subsidies are terrible and that it should be different and so on. By the way, the rules on allocation and control have changed during the period of European subsidies. Finally, remember, here we voted a lot of laws that strengthen the control and treatment of European money. The mayor colleagues who are here will be right that if they have come into contact with European money, it certainly was not a pleasant meeting. Because what followed the draw, if it all worked out, sometimes seemed like the theme of science fiction. That's just the way it was. And on the other hand, the Prime Minister here today is simply calling the report, the European Commission's audit report, preliminary, I say. He says it's not signed. Then the Vice Prime Minister says - well, it went the right way, we checked it out. Well, I don't understand. We are members of the European Union, we have voluntarily become members, we have voluntarily submitted to this system. And paradoxically, many people who criticize the subsidies are willing to take them, on the other hand. Let's face it. [[Members sitting in the benches in front of the speaker are discussing loudly.]] I would ask, Mr President, if they calmed down here in front of me. I've got plenty of time. I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u22	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u23	Thank you. So it's really hard with the subsidies. But on the other hand, if you look around the world, not only in Europe, so who you were in America, in the United States of America, who you were in Canada, you will find that they too have a form of subsidies, especially for agriculture. Because we all know that agriculture, apart from the intensive areas, is simply unable to survive in the individual states. And if we want to be self-sufficient, the problem is here at the moment. As far as subsidies to private entrepreneurs are concerned, of course, this is a problem here. Because it's taxpayers' money that the state chooses from people who are economically active. Part of them will be sent to Brussels and there the subsidies will simply be redistributed by a mechanism that is complicated - the Minister described it here - and they will reach a recipient who is a private businessman. There's hotels behind it, or some other activities we're gonna talk about. And if it wasn't politically active activists or active people in politics like the Prime Minister, we know about it. We don't know much about the others, we can only look somewhere after they've been assigned. And I think this is wrong. It must be said that the subsidies were - if they are, they should be in agriculture, because we are in the European Union. And then they were supposed to be in the public sector. Somewhere we need to serve to balance socially problematic regions. These subsidies should be treated considerably more carefully. And I'm saying, once again, that the violation of the grant discipline today is easily re-qualified to be a felony. Many politicians have already tried it on their own. I even experienced a case where it was a tender where it was not chosen in the end, and subsequent checks found that data had been pushed by politicians that were not valid, and the person got four and a half years hard. And nothing happened. It simply violated the rules of the European Union, the European Commission. We were talking about investment incentives the other day. We're criticizing it, too. Saying that the ODS supports subsidies. Well, I don't know. I don't think it's very much that, on the contrary, we'd like the money to be distributed within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes and, in fact, every single council has decided. Because the subsidies, it's the right place to go, it's a corruption thing. That's right. And it doesn't have to be just an economic corruption thing, as it happened here. She's a social corruption thing. Because... What's going on? [[Members argue with each other.]] So, colleagues, if we're gonna play
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u24	Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u25	It's social corruption, because you're getting all these subsidies allocated to you moving around in that environment, you know the people who are involved in redistributing these things. So, yes, it's an instrument that's very tricky. Most of us want the subsidies to be as small as possible or as few as possible. But that is just the way it is, and that is why the problems that have arisen today, up to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. As I was saying at the outset, it is simply impossible to separate Agrofert from the state, by the way, Prime Minister Babiš. I just can't, because as we heard, the state is him. You know, it used to be that, of course, politicians were communicating with business, with entrepreneurs, but it was that there were politicians on the one hand, there were lobbyists, there were businessmen. Then some entrepreneurs discovered that it would be best if they were politicians and got rid of two articles. It's cheaper for them, faster, of course convenient. And I have a question to ask here. Is it beneficial for the political scene? Is this beneficial for political culture in the Czech Republic? I'm saying no. And you who think otherwise, you have to deal with it yourself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u26	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In the general debate, President Stanjura will now speak, followed by President Faltýnek. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u27	Thank you for the floor. So, ministers, the Prime Minister here said his piece before the point was even placed, and then he boldly - do you hear the quotes? - bravely vanished so they wouldn't listen to arguments. Let's face it, why are we sitting here tonight? Why are we debating this? The answer is very simple. Because Agrofert lives on subsidies. The situation had a simple solution. Absolutely simple solution. If Agrofert didn't go for subsidies, nobody - in the words of Andrej Babiš - has to organize an international conspiracy that has already entered Brussels from the Czech Republic, at least. When an American newspaper writes it, there'll be a conspiracy in the United States. If they write it in Japan, the Japonec will join the world conspiracy. It's that simple. [[18.00 hours]] We hear here, and these are the facts about a company that has a year's turnover of tens of billions, which has a year's profit of billions, and yet it still goes for the subsidies. Does that seem normal to you? The subsidies were once created as aid to small or disadvantaged people. Today it's a regular industry, a subsidy industry. The mayor's rated by how much funding he gets. The captains are an evaluation based on how much subsidies they can get. And we're still in the public sector. And all of a sudden, we have the richest Czech companies here, and it's not just Agrofert, the richest Czech companies that come for subsidies. Does that seem normal to us? Well, it doesn't seem normal to us at ODS. And that's the key problem. And they can define how independent, expert now that the ministers are clear. It didn't come by e-mail. Wrong. Conspiracy. Our great government will translate 71 texts from English for a month. [[Pages]] The moon! But the ministers are already having serious reservations. They've already translated it for you. Well, if the government can't do it, then maybe somebody in the government can translate it and we don't have to wait a month. Andrej Babiš here likes to say when he refuses criticism, he always says, "He criticizes me and doesn't build a doghouse. I think he should modify it: he criticizes me and didn't even build a dotted doghouse. Because if there is someone in the Czech Republic who is able to get a grant to build a doghouse, it is Andrej Babiš and Agrofert. And that's the basic problem. If you look at the report, let's forget about the whole conflict of interest part. Let's forgive her at this point. Not that it's irrelevant. Let's look at the other part: tricks, tricks, false data. Even the company from Agrofert is so generous that it prepared a project where it wanted to take care of the training of small companies without telling the particular small company. Those guys are nice, so they think of the little businessmen that they want to ask for subsidies on their behalf. And the whole horror of the YES movement, how it's conspiracy, is all about it, and answer for yourself, not the microphone, I know you can't if Agrofert didn't go for the money, for the subsidy money, would we be sitting here today? Would there be an audit, a preliminary, final audit? How much time does this take for officials in both the Czech Republic and the European Commission just because the greedy Agrofert takes everything! Ten thousand here, fifty thousand here, one hundred thousand here, one hundred million here. [[She's turning to the government bench at Secretary Schiller.]] The dual food quality fighter in Germany produces quality bread to produce the same bread in the Czech Republic for the money of Czech subsidizers at a distance of many years. And this is the fight against the double quality of food in practice. So the whole problem is: subsidies, subsidies, subsidies. And as long as Agrofert gets funding, he's gonna report for it, until then, we're just not gonna get rid of the problem. And that's it. And they can defil ministers here like on an astronomical clock and say, "I think that at that point on page 63, paragraph (a) there's a word, and it has to be there. Yes, members of the ANO movement pretend that it is invented again. So tell me who's organizing this in Brussels. Like Andrej Babiš says, he's got friends there. The first prime minister to make a deal or, after a long time, the first prime minister to make a deal. But somehow they just can't explain it to them. So try to make sure Agrofert doesn't come for subsidies, and the problem is solved. We save, we don't have to spend two billion on social services or other, much more important expenses. I was fascinated by the Prime Minister's performance, as he said: we got - as he always complains - we only got 3.3 billion crowns. Tell that to the businessmen tomorrow when we vote on the EET, that such a wealthy company only received 3.3 billion crowns. Isn't that wrong? It's not! They were supposed to get zero.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Faltýnek is now next in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In response to some of the speeches of honourable colleagues, I would also propose a resolution, namely the following. Before I read the motion for a resolution, allow me, after all, a brief response to Mr Stanjura's speech. I met about a year ago, he was there, I have a feeling, Minister, now I don't know whether Jurečka or Toman, but that's not important, both of them were agriculture ministers, or Milek, with Commissioner Hogan, where I asked him, asking whether it would be worth it to cancel subsidies for agriculture throughout the European Union. Agriculture subsidies represent about 40 percent of the European Union's budget, and there would be a lot of money for just infrastructure and what Zbyněk Stanjura was talking about here. And Commissioner Hogan looked at me the way he looked at me for a while, and I felt that he wanted to ask me whether I was normal or sick, and then he told me that it was just nonsense within the European Union, incorruptible, unrealistic and so on. So maybe as our Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, we could adopt a resolution where we would call on the European Union, the European Commission, DG Agri, to abolish subsidies for agriculture. We would save 40 percent of the Union's budget. That is what I think we could agree on as the House, and at the same time we could commit our 21 MEPs to enforce this matter here. However, on this particular motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to submit by 31. 8. 2019 first of all, a report containing information on all corrections of subsidies from the European Commission towards applicants of the Czech Republic, since accession to the EU - meant the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU. Secondly, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do so by 31. 8. 2019 has submitted a report on the steps taken by the Czech authorities towards the persons who caused these corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u30	Thank you. Mr Kupka is also reporting for the debate. I'm just reminding you, we're in a general debate. I will therefore ask that, in detail, either the motions for resolutions be re-readed or you have applied to them. Sir, Congressman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u31	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's defense today. And yet, the way we lead the defense, it also speaks very well of us. What did we hear in the Prime Minister's usual defense? First of all, relativization and questioning of the audit, relativization and questioning of the authors of the audit, relativization and questioning of European institutions. Then we also heard a whole series of attacks on everyone around us. This is the usual and popular instrument of the Prime Minister, including the fact that with great taste he attacks all media without distinction. Then followed by what we know from his mouth and from his speeches also notoriously, a little weeping, pitying ourselves and then mocking all the opponents, mocking all those who have a different opinion or allowing him to resist, oppose, simply bringing a different view. What was there, of course, was also, and it is customary, the ability to praise yourself, to blame all the other traditional and to bring himself to heaven. And then there was also another usual ammo of the Prime Minister. We have heard that he is the one who opposes immigrants, and he has also correctly recognized the strings of populist nationalism in relation to the European Union. The Prime Minister used all this. But to tell us how he really has it with a conflict of interest, how it really is with his attitude towards the report, we almost didn't know that. [[18.10 hours]] As it is with conflict of interest, it often sounds like a bit of floscule; it may have been one of the most used words in the Chamber of Deputies in the last few years, so it also proves the dispute that took place in the coalition about who would actually respond to the audit report. If it is to be those who are not associated with the ANO movement and are members of the government or officials. It is not normal that the Czech Republic has to deal with who will answer the report at all. It would be natural for ministers to respond, to whom it concerns, whose departments are affected. After all, the debate, the real debate and the coalition itself, who will actually respond, illustrates the very well abnormal state in which the Czech Republic found itself. It was also said that the subsidy was not an abstract concept, something that simply falls from the sky. That's taxpayers' money, which is then split up. I would like to conjure up one more strong sentence from the Prime Minister who said that he has so much that he doesn't need to steal, that he doesn't need to rob, that he doesn't need to do bad things. And then we see that Agrofert is not hard to go for a $100 million grant, but maybe even go for a $100,000 grant. As it turned out today, it appeared in some outputs, to use - or rather to exploit - its own intentions, to draw even a small subsidy, a small locksmith who doesn't even know about it. So if this turns out to be true, it's further proof that this kind of treatment of grant funds is unhealthy, and we're supposed to stand up against him and look for a way to evolve out of it. Yes, there is another important term. It was said repeatedly that it wouldn't be a problem if Agrofert didn't come for the taxpayers' money. No doubt there would be no conflict of interest. But unfortunately, there is a conflict of interest in this case, and we will still be discussing it here whenever it appears to be a growing curve for the use of subsidies by Agrofert. The matter undisputable, clear and undoubtedly legitimately the subject of discussions in the Chamber of Deputies, but also the subject of discussions in the public. I noticed that Minister Brabec said he was upset. I'm not taking away his right to feel angry, but I'm also going to say that I'm angry. I am angry at what tools, what half-truths, what manipulation the Prime Minister uses when defending himself, because it declassifies not only him, but also the Czech Republic. And I am angry that the Czech Republic is once again becoming a disgrace, a disgraceful state of the European Union, because we simply cannot cope with the conflict of interest in which the Prime Minister of this country finds himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u32	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That was the last application so far. It wasn't. Mr. Mr. Skopeček. We are still in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u33	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure I won't hold it up. I'm glad the debate has moved upstairs to the subsidy debate. I think we should all really think about it. And this example of toast bread subsidy is beautifully illustrative, and it should open our eyes that we no longer live in a market economy, but that we live in a subsidy socialism, and we should finally start doing something about it. We should only stop competing in the extent to which we will draw money from the European Union, although it is of course a national interest to spend as much money as we have sent there before, but at last the interest and priority of politicians should also be to think about what subsidies will be directed towards. I generally consider subsidies as evil if we are not talking, for example, about infrastructure subsidies for small villages. I understand that it is not possible to reconstruct sewerage from the standard budget of a small municipality, for example, but that is no longer true in the Czech Republic. Today we moved from subsidies to infrastructure, from subsidies for small municipalities to subsidizing the largest and richest entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic, and that is simply not normal. How can a fair, fair competition be fair if - if we take the example of a bakery - one bakery gets a subsidy, the other bakery doesn't get a subsidy? How can the one who has in the bureaucratic process how to apply for subsidies, how to compete fairly, and how can he compete for a customer when the state, public budgets, whether the European Union or national, has created such a competitive advantage for one of the entities? And that's one of the biggest? We live in an absurd time when, as I say, the success of an entrepreneur does not determine whether he can satisfy his customer with the lowest possible price and the best services, but success in a business decides whether this person can make a perfectly good request for a European subsidy or has some friends who write it down and push it through the office. This has nothing to do with the market economy, where entrepreneurship really decides whether I am able to offer better goods to the customer at a lower price than competition. Therefore, I would very much like to invite you to think that it really is not normal for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to pay taxes here, to impose electronic records of sales on them and to punish small and medium-sized entrepreneurs for not putting up a good sale of tictacu so that, consequently, this tax return from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs should be directed towards the largest business entities and the richest Čech in the country. This is an absurd, distorted environment. This has nothing to do with the market economy, with normal standard business. That's the way to create a more equal between equals. This is the way to create monopolies here, how to create business entities here that will do business in how much money they can suck out of the state budget and how much they can suck out of their competitors, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Please think about this at all levels, at all levels, let us think about it and try to make sure that if subsidies are to exist, that there are subsidies only for the public sector, for infrastructure, for school equipment, for hospital equipment, and let us reject and cancel subsidies for business, because private business subsidies are the greatest evil that produces corruption that produces unfair competition and that gets us more and more about this subsidy socialism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u34	Thank you. President Kalousek in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u35	Thank you for the floor. Just a little comment on the motion for a resolution made by President Faltýnek here. I can translate it into Czech if it corrects me. He's actually telling us here, yes, he was the chairman of the Babiš, he was the peek that sucked out the subsidies, and I helped him as an important member of Agrofert's leadership. Oh, please, ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lot of peeping around here, and no one's gonna solve it. So I would like to - says Mr.Faltýnek, if he can correct me - to hear about all the peeks, if you want, and ask how the law dealt with them. Maybe from his point of view, it's quite a logical request. He has one basic weakness. I have no doubt that if you want frauds like President Babiš, there are many in the Czech Republic and that they have treated EU funds in a similar way, reported false information, cheated and stole until it was dusted. But there is one fundamental difference between them and President Babiš - none of them became Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Only the one crook became Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. And this, of course, must be of fundamental interest to us as the Chamber of Deputies, because this person represents us all over the world. And he's embarrassing us with what's known about him today. The other crooks, of whom there must have been a number, are a disgrace to themselves. And I firmly hope that justice will catch up with them. But this one crook is a disgrace to the Czech Republic, the Czech Government and the Chamber of Deputies. That is why the Chamber of Deputies has to deal with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u36	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? I don't see an application. I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's an interest in the final word. It's not. The President of Michálek shall report with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to request a 30-minute break for a club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u38	Yes, I understand. I'm declaring a recess for the Pirate Club meeting. Meet me at 6:50.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u39	The honourable Members, so the pause has passed and we will therefore proceed to the debate in detail, which I signed up for first and the President Bartoš as the second. So, if you'll take my place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u40	Yes, Mr. Vice-President. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. The break's already over. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already announced in my afternoon speech, we propose a resolution in this text: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development in connection with the preliminary report by the European Commission on the investigation of conflicts of interests of the Prime Minister to consistently defend the interests of the Czech Republic." And the second sentence: "In the event of financial damage caused by the Czech Republic by violation of Czech laws, we ask for the liability of the guilty." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u42	Thank you and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, please hand over the written form, once the rapporteur and once here on the front desk. And now, President Bartoš is registered with priority rights as rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u43	Hello. I would like to present a joint motion for a resolution for the ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN on the preliminary draft audit of the European Commission for a conflict of interests of a member of the Government. The resolution has five points. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Calls on the Government to ensure the immediate interruption of the payment of non-financial subsidies from EU subsidy programmes to companies controlled by trust funds whose beneficiary is a member of the Government; 2. Calls on the Government to ensure the settlement of comments on the European Commission's preliminary audit report on the conflict of interest of 29 May 2004; 5. 2019, audit number REGC414CZ013, and subsequent communication with EU institutions in an objective, impartial and transparent manner; 3. Calls on the Government to present to the Chamber of Deputies an overview of all public support subsidies, public procurement and investment incentives for the companies referred to in point 1 of this resolution granted from 9. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4. Calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies information on the implementation of item 1" - which is the cessation of unaddressed benefits - 'this resolution by 18 June 2019; 5. Asks the Government to submit a reply from the Czech Republic to the preliminary draft audit of the European Commission also to the Committee on European Affairs of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for discussion before sending it." So this is a proposal, a joint motion for a resolution of ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u44	Ambassador, let me just ask you, do you wish us to vote... I understand that, on the whole resolution together, with one vote, all five points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u45	We will vote after points, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u46	On points, okay. I get that. We will vote on individual points. So, I'm asking if... Then we have one more motion for a resolution. So I'm gonna ask the chairman of the ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek parliamentary club. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u47	I read the resolution, handed it over to President Bartoš. So I would just apply to my motion for a resolution, where the Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to by 31. 8. 2019 presented the two specific points that I have read here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u48	Okay. So I understand. I will look around the hall to see if there is another application for a detailed debate. I don't see an application here. So I will conclude a detailed debate and proceed to the vote on the various motions for resolutions. I'll check you out. Log in again with your voting cards. I will ask you, rapporteur, if you could take the vote. So I suppose we'll be the first to vote on my proposal, on behalf of the SPD movement. But please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u49	There have been three motions for resolutions. The first motion for a resolution was tabled by President Tomio Okamura. I don't know if I have to reload this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u50	I don't think it's necessary. [[Rapporteur to Mr Bartoš: There is no need.]] So we all know what we're going to vote on. I'm opening the vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 442, 177 Members signed in for 107, versus 5. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u51	It will now be a motion for a resolution tabled jointly by the ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. We would therefore vote there on a case-by-case basis: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic - paragraph 1 - calls on the Government to ensure the immediate interruption of the payment of non-claim subsidies from EU subsidy programmes to companies controlled by trust funds whose beneficiary is a member of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u52	There. We all know what we're voting on. I'm opening the vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 443, 178 Members registered, for 61, versus 3. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. It hasn't been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u53	Second point: Calls on the Government to ensure the settlement of comments on the preliminary audit report of the European Commission in a conflict of interest of 29 April 2014. 5. 2019, audit number and subsequent communication with EU institutions in an objective, impartial and transparent manner. [[cases]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u54	I'm opening the vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 444, 178 Members registered, for 69, against none. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u55	Third vote: Asks the Government to present to the Chamber of Deputies an overview of all subsidies to public support, public procurement and investment incentives for the companies referred to in paragraph 1 of this resolution granted from 9. 2. 2017 in the period until 18 June 2019.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u56	I'm opening the vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 445, registered by 178 Members, in favour of 62, versus 1. The motion for a resolution has not been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u57	I would now like to ask Mr President, given that the fourth point is to be the information to the Chamber of Deputies on paragraph 1, and so the government would, if it does not do this in an involuntary manner, which would, of course, be great, so whether or not item 4 should be voted on. [[with laughter]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u58	I already hesitated a little at the third point, but I consulted, which also referred to point 1 which was not approved, but it was voteable. And I don't think we're gonna vote for that four.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u59	Point 3 to point 1 didn't relate, but okay. Therefore, we will vote on the last item: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to submit a reply to the Czech Republic on the preliminary draft audit of the European Commission to the Committee on European Affairs of the Czech Parliament for discussion before sending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u60	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 446 178 Members registered, for 80, against 1. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u61	There is now the last motion for a resolution tabled by the President of the ANO Faltýnek Club. He has two points, but I do not think that we would have to vote on individual points separately here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u62	Yes. I've got a card here, I've already consulted it, virtually. The President has informed me that he wishes to vote all together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u63	The motion for a resolution is: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to present it by 31. 8. 2019 - firstly - a report containing information on all corrections, subsidies from the European Commission to applicants from the Czech Republic, from the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU; Secondly, the report on the steps taken by the Czech authorities towards the persons who caused the correction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u64	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 447 166 Members registered, for 150, against 1. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank the rapporteur. Yes, I'll read the apologies first. Mrs Pekarová Adamová cancels her apology because she had an apology within 19 hours. He's here. Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes from 19.15 to the end of the day. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u65	I was hoping that at least one of these points would be approved by the parties that either support the government, or we'll somehow put it together with the SPD. However, that the point has not been approved that the Czech Republic will deal with this report objectively, impartially and transparently, I think it is completely contrary to what we have heard here in this committee of ministers at the beginning of this meeting. So the House does not wish it to be objective, i.e. the votes of Members who voted against or did not vote for the approval of this single point, to be objective, impartial and transparent. That seems almost to me - it's at least smiling, but it's a report on how it's really going to go down. And I think I believe that the media will, once again, be the Prime Minister of the disgraced media, be active, and if we can't clearly supervise it, they'll be monitoring it on their channels, so some whistleblower will be found at that time, and that information will be shared with Members who are to control the government, how they handle our resources, how they will share it with Members. It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u66	With priority rights, the chairman of the SPD, Radim Fiala, will be prepared by the President of the MP... There was such a hand change. This means, therefore, the first chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura, the second chairman of the SPD MP Radim Fiala and the third chairman of the KSČM MP Club Pavel Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u67	Thank you for the floor. The result of the vote did not surprise me. I think that the informal coalition, that means supporting the SPD movement of the YES, always in the most difficult moment, will come in handy. This is a matter for colleagues on the left... It points to - yes, we have 60 votes, as Mr Vondrák says. I'm not bullshitting here, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I promise you here you won't be able to do it with the Communists, not with Tomie, not with the Socialists hiding under the carpet. You're not gonna make it. You can congratulate yourself, you can have the coalition, you can laugh at us, but that doesn't mean you're gonna solve the problem, you're gonna get rid of the problem. [[unintelligible]] And I'm kind of looking forward to you all making excuses for how you voted today, and you're gonna say, well, we didn't have complete information. We put the information there completely accurate! And it is clear that the House's resolution to assess the audit impartially by the Czech Republic did not pass. I mean, we've known since yesterday, since Sunday, the Prime Minister's already told us how it's gonna turn out. The ministers have told us how it's gonna turn out. So you just voted in line with reality. That's all. I don't think it's a surprise. It must be said, and especially to those who listen to it, and to the public who are concerned about it, that in order for Czech taxpayers' money to continue to flow to Agrofert's bank account, they are members of the ANO movement, the SPD movement, the communists and partly social democrats, because their strength in the coalition is limited to zero!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u68	Now, with priority rights, the chairman of the SPD member Radim Fiala and the chair of the KSČM member club Pavel Kováčik will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, by your means to the President of the ODS. Prime Minister, you're lying! Because we have been saying here from the beginning that we want the Czech authorities, especially the Ministry of Finance, to assess the whole situation, that, of course, we realize that there may be risks for the Ministry of Finance to assess the risks of embezzlement of Czech taxpayers' money. And if so, the Ministry of Finance and the Czech authorities will propose how to deal with this matter. I'd take the liberty once again, and that's what the whole point was called to check out the risks. I would once again like to read the resolution we approved, ours. And that's why. That is why we have not approved, through Mr President-in-Office of the pirát Bartoš, your motions for resolutions, because we have our motion for a resolution which clearly states what we want, what we expect from this situation, and that there is no damage to the Czech Republic: "The House of Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development in connection with the preliminary report by the European Commission on the investigation of conflicts of interests of the Prime Minister to consistently defend the interests of the Czech Republic. In the event of financial damage caused by the Czech Republic by violating Czech laws, we ask for the liability of the culprits." I think it is obvious that if something like this is proven and proven by the Czech authorities, of course, we will raise our hand to punish the culprits so that no harm can be done to the Czech state. That is why we have proposed this point today, and I think that is the only way. What you're saying is political speculation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u70	I will now read one apology. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes from 19.05 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Now President Pavel Kováčik, President Kalousek and President Výborný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u71	Thank you for the floor. Mrs. and gentlemen, have a good evening. Until now, the Communist Members and Members did not consider it necessary for them to perform in the debate and, in part, to beat only so-called empty straw here, because the report is preliminary, God knows how it escaped, God knows what ways to travel to the media and anywhere else. And we didn't even propose because we thought it was an early, special resolution. It seems absurd to us when some of us here are melting - sorry, angry at the fact that he failed to make a proposal, the request to investigate things objectively, impartially and independently. It is as if all governments have so far been working objectively, partyly and addictively, and only now, by some kind of enlightenment, should now finally proceed objectively, impartially and independently. [[19.10 hours]] I personally believe that, and we have also expressed this in support of certain points of the resolution, that if you fall, to whom, that is, from our accession to the European Union. And if, objectively, impartially and independently, it will only be possible to proceed to the proper places, to the appropriate committees, to the government, to the Ministry's full official version in a certified Czech translation. Until then, it is only speculation, and until then it is only, and this is evident from the whole discussion, mostly a political game rather than being objectively, impartially and independently verified by the things that fly here through the air as if challenged. Maybe so, maybe not, but when the time comes, when the official one comes, the full version, when the official English translation comes, which is verified. Until then, we're just playing politically here. Madames and gentlemen, the KSČM parliamentary club supported those parts of the motion for a resolution that we now considered topical, and I thank you very much for bringing the debate to this end. Because in time, when it is possible to investigate objectively, impartially and independently, the material will also arrive here or, if necessary, to the Supervisory Committee, or the reply will be sent to the Audit Committee or to the SAO and, if necessary, to the SAO, and here, and we will be able to express ourselves. But I would like the information from our accession to the European Union to be really here by then, so that we can put the whole situation in context. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u72	Thank you. And now I will just recapitulate, so I have four applications - President Kalousek, President Výborný, President Filip and President Chvojka. So, Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u73	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the political composition of the Chamber of Deputies is what it is, and we fully respect its conclusion and the resolution that has been adopted. I would just like to point out that for history it is necessary to structure the positions of individual political clubs and that I am the last person to blame, for example, the SPD MP, because they simply do not commit sin and I really believe that you, colleagues, at this point, do not realize what is going on. But on the other hand, I can't have this indulgence with the professionals sitting here. I cannot have this indulgence with professionals in a number of governments with a bureaucratic past who know exactly what this is about, whether it be Minister Dostálová, Schillerová, Maláčová, I cannot have this indulgence with fully qualified ČSSD Members. Those involved know how it's gonna turn out. There can be no other way. And now I'm saying it on the sound record, because I know they also know that it can't be any different. And when the decision comes, I will come back here, and I will refer to this sound record and say: You are the accomplices, you have extended the incredible shame of the Czech Republic, even if you knew how we were doing and how it would turn out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u74	Now I'll read two apologies. Mr Martin Kupka apologizes for our negotiations until the end of the sitting day from 19 pm for working reasons and Mr Jan Kubík apologizes between 19.10 and 21 pm for working reasons. Now we have four registered, so President Marek Výborný, Vice-President Filip House will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u75	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have to turn against what was said here about some lies. I don't think there were any lies. If you listened well, those resolutions were actually all aimed at the same thing. It just turns out here that the coalition that's here - YES, SPD, KSČM and ČSSD - is holding together. And let's be clear, you simply refused to stop drawing non-interest subsidies to the companies of the second richest Čech, your Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of this government. That's just the way it is, and the potential damage will continue to be deepened here. Just as you have turned your back on the suspicion that is evidently here, and that suspicion on the basis of the preliminary audit report, has been investigated objectively, impartially, transparently. Well, let the public hear it, let the people of this country hear how you stand up to the way in which it is measured by all the same subway. That's just the way it is!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u76	I'll read another apology. Mr Petr Pávek apologizes from now until the end of the day for personal reasons. Next - I will ask the Vice-President of the House of Mr Vojtěch Filip, Mr Chvojka will prepare the chairman of the club ČSSD. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u77	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to object to those, I would say, with a little inappropriate comments on who votes for what is voted for by the Rules of Procedure Act. Paragraph 57 of our Rules of Procedure Act states that the discussion of the agenda to which it is intended to serve as a basis for the House's press will begin if all Members have received such a document in time. The House press, unless it is a bill, shall be delivered at least 24 hours before it is discussed. If that period has not been complied with, the Member may propose that the item be adjourned. What did the pirát' proposal sound like? In order for the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution on a text that has not been delivered. Do you think we could even vote for such a point? We couldn't! We couldn't! We could, of course, discuss the government's oral report on this matter, we could discuss other proposals that fell here if we agreed that such information was needed for the Chamber of Deputies. So if anyone is complaining that there was no vote here for a transparent discussion of this matter, they are complaining completely out of place. I'll be in favour of everything being discussed transparently, so there are some pins, all of that, but when I have the specific text and I can judge what's in that text. Don't be mad at me, I'd have to return my diploma if I were to comment on something I haven't read, and I should draw some legal or political conclusion from it. I just can't! [[With emphasis:]] If you have chosen to manipulate the public politically, face it! Then say it out loud that you want to manipulate the Czech public, you can use anything. And you think we're gonna fall for that? We're not that stupid!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u78	Mr Chvojka, Mr. Bartoš, Chairman of the Pirate Club, will now be prepared with priority rights. Please don't comment on those factual remarks. I have three applications that have come in, and we're not in a general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u79	Good evening, colleagues, thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like to recapitulate what we have voted for and what we have voted for, because some comments, particularly traditionally, through the Vice-President to President Kalousek and Stanjura, I think we have voted fully in line with what we have said since Friday. I would just briefly read what we voted for as the ČSSD, and I regret that the resolution did not pass because, with a clear, calm conscience and heart, the YES movement or other parties that did not vote for them could also support them. We voted in favour of the House calling on the Government to ensure the settlement of comments on the Commission's preliminary audit report on conflicts of interest of 29 May 2019, audit number REGC414CZ013, and subsequent communication with the institutions of the European Union in an objective, impartial and transparent manner. This is the first of those resolutions that we voted for, and we are not ashamed of it, on the contrary. The second resolution we voted for is this: the House asks the Government to submit a reply from the Czech Republic to the preliminary draft audit of the European Commission to the Committee on European Affairs of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for discussion before sending it. That one resolution out of five was not voted on, one of the four voted on, we had doubts as to whether it was even voteable. Therefore, we acted in harmony with our promise. As we said on Friday, we are in favour of maximum transparency and openness on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u80	So far, the last application - the chair of the pirate party of the MP Ivan Bartoš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u81	I'd take the liberty of reacting to two things. The first would be to point out that, of course, the approved proposal proposed by Mr Okamura by the President of the SPD seemed completely out of the question of the European Financial Regulation, which, of course, is applicable to the Member States of the European Union which entered into force last year. And the Czech Government has not taken any step towards reflecting him, except for Prime Minister Babiš's alibi departure from the leadership, or from the advisory body, which is the ESIF, which does not have the final decision making anyway, lies with the government. [[19.20 hours]] The second thing I would like to draw attention to - and I would like to ask the Vice-President of the House, Mr Filip, not to shout insults about any manipulation. If I were to take what Section 57 says, it is - the basis is to be the House press if this paragraph, which is to be delivered to Members, is applied. This is not the House press. If, in our case, it is true that a proposal which was not a pirate proposal, but was presented here in several clubs, then what would be voted on in Mr Tomio Okamura's proposal? What is this thing that's been going on all morning? At Friday's meeting, where we met representatives of the parliamentary clubs and the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs, where the representatives of the KSČM were also representatives, we discussed the matter. There was nothing from Mr. Kováčik that it wasn't valid, that there was no platform that we were talking about, that the message was virtual. There was no such thing. Today was the meeting one more time, where we were supposed to talk about the resolutions. We have also discussed the possibilities of who can deal with this at this stage. I also invited Mr. Kováčik. He then wrote that the chairman was coming. There was no one at the meeting. We could have gotten these things straight. However, § 57 speaks of the Houses of the Press and, of course, it is not a condition that you have to have anything delivered in 24 hours that is being discussed in the House. In the same way, we could not have any opinions that may concern some current situation that the House is normally voting on. Otherwise, this report has its number, which I have already quoted, REGC414CZ013. It's a document that the Ministry already has. It's a document that the Magistrate has in public space. So even getting to know the main conclusions of this draft audit result of the European Commission - of course, Members had the opportunity to get to know it. After all, it was quoted by members of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-04-ps2017-030-05-001-239.u82	I'll read two apologies. Mrs Dana Balcarová has been apologizing since 19.20 for personal reasons until the end of the day. And Mr Radek Koten apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons. Since I did not notice any further agreement, we will continue with one more point, because the meeting day is within 21 hours. So I'm starting a point.
