ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-005-904.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 41 and 42 / House prints 516 and 479/ We are therefore now in a merged debate, and if Mr Kaňkovský does not insist on his priority right at this time, then Mr Farhan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-005-904.u2	Thank you for the floor. So I have two suggestions that I would like to make. The first proposal concerns the amendment to the Health Insurance Act, the House Press 479, and I propose rejecting it at first reading. As regards my second proposal, it concerns the House press 516, the amendment on occupational health insurance companies, and here I propose a reduction of the time limits for discussion to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-005-904.u3	Yes, thank you for the suggestions. And now, Mr Kaňkovský and Mr Janulík will be ready. Before Mr Kaňkovský arrives at the microphone, Mr Kupka will apologize from today's meeting from 19.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-005-904.u4	Good evening again. Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, allow me, this time, not as rapporteur, but as a representative of the KDU-ČSL club, to comment on the government amendment, namely the House of Press 516. As I said before, actually, to the MP's press. At this point, we have a legal vacuum in terms of the election of members of key bodies of occupational and occupational health insurance companies. We have come to this by abolishing some of the provisions of the existing law in September of last year and completely repealing the decree establishing the way in which the elections and the electoral rules for elections to the administrative and supervisory boards of insurance companies are to be held. [[19.10 hours]] I do not like to do this, but I have to ask the Minister here what caused the government, or the Ministry, to submit its government proposal only nine months after the Constitutional Court's decision, when it was clear that from 1 October this year, or 30 September, then from 1 October, we will not have legally treated choices for key health insurance bodies. It must be said that although we have them fulfilled at this time, there may be situations where one of the members of the board of directors or supervisors resigns, dies or for some other reason will not be able to perform his duties. If we know how long the legislative process has been going on here in the House, and even if it had been shortened between readings, we would not be able to get this proposal to the Collection before February, maybe March next year. This means that we have thrown employee health insurance companies in this process and that here in the House the proposal has been here since June and we are only getting to discuss it today, November 6th, so we are putting health insurance companies into a certain risk, into a legal vacuum. And I want to ask you, Minister, what caused you, with the legislative apparatus you have in the Ministry, to be second in the presentation of a legislative proposal. The pirates and other fellow Members have outrun you in this regard and it must be said that the amendment they have prepared, although in my opinion there are some parameters that are problematic, so even though they do not have such a legislative apparatus in their backs, their amendment was here a month earlier. So much for the genesis of the law. As regards the law itself, KDU-ČSL feels the need for this matter to be discussed as soon as possible. I assume that there will be quite a broad discussion on this committee or on the committees, because it is not an entirely simple issue. The KDU-ČSL Club will support the Government's proposal for committee discussion. I will also propose discussions here in the Economic Committee, because this is not just about the Health Committee, and I firmly believe that we will be able to approve a good amendment that will address the choices made to the key health insurance bodies as best as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-005-904.u5	Thank you. I made a note of the motion. Mr Janulík is now enrolled in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-005-904.u6	Good evening, colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm not gonna be that specific, I'm gonna be a little bit more of a philosopher. Look, there's been this semantic mistake. We talk about health insurance and health insurance all the time. It's not really insurance. Insurance looks completely different. I'm paying my insurance in case it's an insurance company that's covering my risks, and then it's filling me in. These institutions are called insurance companies here, but they haven't been insurance companies in decades. They're just redistributing money from us, which they're either going to choose directly or indirectly from us. So that's the first moment. The second moment that forces me to say something here is that mostly colleague Okamura here was pretending to be a completely catastrophic state, which may rule in insurance companies, or even in the largest insurance company and in general in the system. But I want to assure you, and, of course, citizens and voters, it's not like that at all. It is not that today the health insurance companies are - we know that we have even experienced forced administration, and so they are controlled from all sides, all sorts of things, and the flow of these funds is really very carefully discussed both by the Ministry and I don't know, by other audit bodies. But most importantly, if I have experience, and I have already had six years of experience from the Board of Directors of the VZP, like many of my colleagues, and we know how it really works in these supervisory or administrative bodies, that there is an honest debate. And we are, because most of the time we are - notice that we are mostly doctors there. What's it gonna be? Because many of us are really health care providers, and many of us have been so old, we have lived without health insurance institutions, we have worked, we have done our jobs, we have done our work since 1992, I guess when the General Health Insurance Company was established, so we just work in the system - in quotation marks - of the quasi-health insurance, even if it is not insurance in the true sense of the word. And really nothing terrible has happened over the years, and I assure you that it will not happen, because, as I say, it is subject to very strict control, but precisely because there are people from practice in those supervisory bodies or in those administrative bodies. And there's a mountain going on, talking about street people, and I really don't think in this case that street people, as my colleague Okamura here says, could bring anything into that system. I just can't. The system is so complex in itself that we, who have been in this for decades, are very difficult to communicate within a few minutes or even tens of minutes to colleagues who are coming into those bodies, will come as nominees for some of the political parties, specifically the party represented by colleague Okamura, and infallibly - and always step on the landmine that is slumbering there. Colleagues from the Board of Directors know what I'm talking about, I don't want to be specific anymore. I think that my colleague Kaňkovský is really drawing here - of course these are the legal things and the legal frameworks that, God forbid, I would argue with it, it's just that the Constitutional Court has some conventions, etc., etc. But let's face it, it's really not gonna happen. Those insurance companies just have to sort out the money from the current frameworks somehow. He just has to keep going. On this occasion, it occurs to me that we've been having a long time here, and we're all still talking about how the General Health Insurance Company is going to distribute money, etc., etc. Notice that the employee insurance company is a little behind the beech. They weren't mentioned at all. So as far as I know, we're gonna have it on Wednesday, we're gonna ask the health committee how they're gonna split the money into the health insurance companies, the employees, because we stripped the General naked, and we forgot about the employees a little bit, and they were happy, they didn't sign up for it at all, so we're gonna discuss it there on Wednesday. But again, I understand it has some legal frameworks, etc., but let's not get scared, nothing terrible is going to happen, and the system, as I say, it's quasi-insurance, it's not insurance in that sense, it's going to go on. But notice that, once again, there are non-doctors behind the parliamentary proposal. They're non-medical again. And I really, I'm sorry, I have to say it here, like everyone who went to school understands education, so everyone who had angina understands health, etc., etc. So I'd be a little skeptical about this, then I'd probably wait for the government stuff, I'd leave it at that, 'cause they have an expert apparatus after all. I think it's really like this -- always alienating it, or turning into a dead end. I say again, let's go a little bit after the meaning of this thing so it's really insurance, and let's not waste any time alienating some redistributive money. The truth is, we have to objectively say that none of us seem to have - I mean, I don't have the information - much to drive and run those occupational health insurance companies. But on the other hand, as a provider, I have to say that they are quite strictly controlling or copying what they are doing or what the General Health Insurance Company is doing, and in some way it doesn't go away. So I don't see any tragedy when nothing happens and the existing system is preserved, because I'm just saying, in those basically three decades that it's already going to be, it's so scrambled and alienated that there's no other space, and I don't know what else to control than to control what it would actually bring, or what it's supposed to deliver. What's that supposed to bring to the insurance companies, to the providers, to the insurance companies themselves? I'm kind of missing the point when, like I'm saying again, maybe the third time, let's give it back the original intention and meaning it has, which is contained in the word insurance, so that it can be covered by insurance. So it wouldn't be a health tax, where each of us would do it, and then somehow in quotation marks it would be redistributed. I guess that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-005-904.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Třešňák is here, with a factual remark, pending the debate. And otherwise, I don't know about any other applications at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-005-904.u8	Just in a hurry. I hope I don't bring up a wave of other real ones. Many of the things my colleague Janulík said here could be agreed with. Indeed, today the insurance companies, as they are set up, I repeat it often, are really only all the same pipes for hot water. But what I'd really like to go for was the way he used that pejorative expression, like the people on the street are gonna decide about health care. Well, they're gonna decide on 130 billion of their health insurance, which they're gonna do, just like they're gonna pay their taxes and they're gonna vote for their deputies to the Chamber of Deputies. Likewise, when you mentioned that the petitioners are not from the health sector, I could now randomly select anyone from the Chamber of Deputies, some amendment proposal or amendment, and ask him if he has the expertise on this issue. I tried to make this brief in some way, so thank you. I hope it doesn't trigger another wave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-005-904.u9	Well, thank you. Time has been observed more than sufficient. At this point, I have no further applications for this merged debate, so I am ending it. And now I'm going to introduce you to your apologies. Mrs Válková apologizes to us between 19.15 and midnight because of the negotiations and Mrs Majerová Zahradníková from 7 pm to the end of the negotiations for working reasons.
