ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended / House print 205/ - second reading I will ask the Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to take the position at the rapporteur's table, thank you for coming quickly. I also ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken by the rapporteur of the Guarantee Budget Committee Jan Volný and I also ask for the readiness to... Oh, that's it... because I have Mr. Volný as an approved rapporteur. More colleagues are interested in the Minister. So my colleague Volný is an approved rapporteur, so he has taken his place. I will ask, therefore, that the rapporteurs of the Economic Committee be prepared by the Member Vojtěch Munzar and the Member of the Committee of the Constitutional Law Marek Benda. Before we begin, I have Mr Dominik Feri's apology here at 18 o'clock for business reasons. I will now ask the Minister if she is interested in the opening words at second reading. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. Before reading the second, let me briefly introduce the amendment to the Act on Recording of Sales and the Value Added Tax Act. The reason for the amendment to the Act on Recording of Sales was mainly the reaction to the Constitutional Court's decision of December 2017 and, of course, to reflect the knowledge of application practice from the first and second waves. The reason, above all, is that we want to introduce a third and fourth wave. We are introducing a new system here, called. an offline system where a taxpayer who meets the criteria set out in this amendment may request an offline system. This means that they do not need to register electronically if decided by the Financial Administration, but it will only be the taxpayer who is a natural person, VAT payer, maximum two employees and a certain amount of cash sales. [[has]] We've got 200,000 cash sales proposed in the novel. I am prepared to support the amendment for a higher amount, as I supported in the Committee on Budgets. [[16.00 hours]] I would also like to remind you that part of this amendment is the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, where we reduce VAT for selected services with a high proportion of labour. They are mainly hairdressing services, repairs of various clothing, leather products, repairs of bicycles and others. We reduce some of the 21 percent to 10 percent and some of the 15 percent to 10 percent. It also includes the mentioned water and sewerage, which we reduce from 15 percent to 10 percent and we will ensure through the Ministry of Finance's price statement that this is reflected in the final price for citizens. The total reduction is 3.4 billion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u3	Thank you, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. I will now ask the rapporteur, Jan Volný, to present a report on the budgetary committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, fellow Members, the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee at its 22nd meeting on 3 April 2019 discussed this press and evaluated the amendments which were received at that date to the Committee on Budgets. The resolution is available in the Houses of the Press 205/5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Jan Volný, for informing us about the negotiations of the Committee on Budgets as well as the amendments under Section 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1. I ask Mr Munzar if he is interested in speaking for the Economic Committee. It's not like that. My colleague, Marek Benda, is not present here, so he will not present us with an intelligence report from the constitutional law committee. I can open a general debate in which I have the priority right of application by the Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura and with the club's opinion the club's priority right is exercised by the club of the pirate party. He will be represented by Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Now, then, Vice-President Tomio Okamura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we have another EET law for businessmen and entrepreneurs. Again, the SPD has not agreed to this proposal from the outset. Instead, we propose the introduction of a flat-rate tax for small entrepreneurs so that we do not bureaucratically burden them, while the state will have its own. The same is true in Germany, for example. I am glad that the government has also begun to hear this proposal. A lot of arguments have been raised in the debate on EET for a long time. One bonmot is worth noting. The state becomes a bad servant and a bad master. The state is not here to rule. That is why we once disposed of the Austro-Hungarian transnational monarchy and began building democracy. In the debate, opponents argue about how much EET earns or doesn't make extra money. Ladies and gentlemen, we're all kind of missing out on the fact that it's not at all relevant whether tax collection has decreased or increased. The aim of the state is not to collect taxes, but to create a safe and socially fair environment for citizens or, for example, for companies. The target is not GDP numbers or record tax collections. The goal must be a single, satisfied citizen. And in this respect, the EET is a step backwards. Even in Austria-Hungary, the state did not sneak as much after its subjects as it does in our country today. Already in Austria-Hungary, the state administration was able to save their jobs and tradesmen by agreeing on a flat-rate tax, i.e. some reasonable annual amount paid by the trader, and had peace from bureaucracy. Danil did so not only the chimney sweeper or the carpenter, but also the prostitutes paid for the trade. If our goal is a satisfied citizen, let us at least let the smallest tradesmen breathe freely and allow them a flat-rate tax. The bonus of feeding himself, his families, and possibly a few people around him in the regions is not how much the government takes from them in taxes, but that the state does not bother and feed itself. On the contrary, this model should be supported to the maximum and rewarded and not punished or complicated by those who feed themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is in control of systemic change. But there is no point waiting idlely, so I have tabled an amendment under the SPD to this bill that would relieve the smallest and allow them to register sales in a special regime without EET, i.e. VAT payers, tradesmen with turnovers of up to half a million crowns, who do not employ more than two people. I agree with the experts that the special regime as an EET solution for small entrepreneurs is a dead child and must be replaced by the said flat-rate tax because the special regime returns entrepreneurs to large paperwork again. However, we are trying at least a little bit to improve the current unsatisfactory state of business. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš promised that entrepreneurs could benefit from a flat-rate tax from January 2020 instead of the current income tax, social and health insurance, but unfortunately, the deadline is slowly postponed. Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová now assumes that this could happen in the course of next year. That's a bit of chaotic again. I have offered a flat-rate tax on small businesses on behalf of the SPD to the government and the Prime Minister for years, but first, as in the case of Cimrman, the government will try dead ends to see where there is no road, and only then will it begin to work on a truly systemic and good solution. In the meantime, however, these government attempts have been paid for by citizens from their pockets. Despite this, we appreciate that the government has taken over the flat-rate tax proposal, and together with the businessmen, we look forward to seeing a meaningful solution to the flat-rate tax someday. I would merely point out that I will sign up in a detailed debate that my amendment has number 2522. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u7	I thank the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamur. Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, with the opinion of the Pirate Club. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would now like to present the opinion of the Pirates Club. Furthermore, in the debate, I will be speaking first of all on my amendments to this press. I will begin with the pirát' overall attitude towards this novel. This amendment introduces, in particular, the third and fourth wave of electronic sales records. We consider it completely absurd that the government is saying that because they are all entrepreneurs or all businessmen, they are supposed to meet the same conditions, even though they do in completely different fields. By this law, we are trying to pretend that a person who needs a plumber or a gardener, as the case of gardeners and EET was discussed very closely here at the plenary of this House, when we discussed it at first reading, or a painter of rooms, or a lawyer, or a doctor, should have the same rules for business as the innkeeper or hotelier. That's a completely absurd idea. And it is because of this absurd idea that the result is such a pasculi. It is precisely because different types of business are being merged, and the government is trying to run over all these entrepreneurs and shove them into the same boxes, so there is a premeditated law that we have right now on the table. The main problem with the third and fourth waves is that, while there is some real controllability of transactions that take place publicly in the vast majority of cases, that is, there is a restaurant facility, there comes a customer, orders a beer and a controller when he comes there, can see if the customer has received a receipt or has not received it, and then can verify whether the receipt has appeared in the electronic system or has not appeared, in the third and fourth waves there are entrepreneurs who do business as individuals and in the vast majority offer their services to customers indirectly without the presence of others. The control activity is supposed to consist in the fact that the tax administration is going to have the room painted or the pipes repaired - I would like to ask Mr Okamura if I could speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u9	Ambassador, I'll get my own order, so you can talk. I'll stop the negotiations so you can talk calmly. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The third and fourth wave for craftsmen is just completely absurd, because there is no enforcement of obligations, so the honest ones will lose on it, and the dishonest ones will no longer issue receipts, because if you have an EET checkout, that doesn't mean you'll actually issue the receipt. That's the basic problem we have with this novel. [[16.10 hours]] Furthermore, there are some corrections to legislative technical errors from previous bad work of the previous Chamber of Deputies. We don't want to block that. That is why we have proposed one press for the EET ourselves, where we have repeatedly submitted a proposal by all six opposition parties so that the EET does not apply to VAT, and within this press, the government coalition could, if it really only wanted to correct its mistakes from the previous period, correct those legislative technical errors, for example, in relation to blind entrepreneurs and other groups that are significantly damaging the current situation. And then a very distinctive part of that law is a special regime. Sometimes it's called off-line mode, but it's more like paper records. I must begin by saying that we welcome the fact that the Committee on Budgets has succeeded in raising the line to which it is intended to apply. That limit of 600,000 cash payments per year makes some sense, and it's already starting to apply. Unfortunately, there have been a number of major problems. The first mistake is that Mr Juříček's proposal and Mr Onderka's proposal for the introduction of the special scheme and for VAT payers has not been passed. There are a number of cases where a businessman has normal sales e.g. via an account or via a card and the EET needs very sporadic, but it would be useful if he could simply operationally issue one two paper receipts. This may also apply to VAT payers and non-VAT payers. We do not understand why the government is blocking the application of this VAT regime at a time when there may actually be cases where this would be practical. So this is one mistake. The second mistake is that the IRS has to issue receipts. We absolutely do not understand this when the official justification for this is to simplify the life of entrepreneurs. The government says it simplifies people's lives, and that's why they can collect the receipts free of charge at the tax office. But why, if the aim of this measure is to simplify people's lives, why, at the same time, the government will not allow people to print the receipts themselves from a model that would be issued by the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Office. It seems completely absurd to me. When a measure is justified by the fact that it is a simplification of people's lives, at the same time, we allow them to do their own thing and to do it more easily themselves. I just don't get it. The other problem is that the special scheme is on request and the tax office has 30 days to process the request. For me, it is incomprehensible that at a time when a number of deadlines for citizens are incomparably shorter, we are giving 30 days here. So when someone starts a business and wants to use that special EET regime, because they might assess that it brings lower costs for them, so instead of simply going to the office or filing it ideally electronically and in the order of the days he can start a business, now he's going to wait 30 days for the office to give him his application, which should be purely formal. I just don't understand why there's such a long deadline. The same problem is, and perhaps even greater, that within that period the entrepreneur must prove that he does not expect to cross that limit of CZK 600,000. The moment, e.g. The businessman is switching from cash payments to electronics, so his expected income is going to fall sharply, but some clerk says to himself: but you've had a lot of cash payments last year, so logically you're assuming that you're going to have it this year too, so suddenly they can start arguing about whether it meets the terms or doesn't. And I don't understand why it's simply not there that anyone wants to, so they ask for it as long as they meet the conditions, so they can use the special regime when they stop meeting them, they start to log according to electronic sales records. So I see this as another problem. But as the biggest problem of this special regime is a completely absurd bureaucratic obligation, which is not even mentioned in the law and which the Ministry of Finance is struggling to do through the activities of the tax administration, when optically it looks like people will send the sum of their sales every three months, sum up what they have earned in three months, and that will be sent to the IRS, which a priori do not refuse, that seems quite appropriate to us. The moment a man still needs to add up his income, it's not that much of a burden when he does it once in a quarter and then at the end of the year he puts it together. But why in God's name is the IRS planning on having to distribute their income after days, after days? That's completely nonsense! So today's standard is that a businessman simply issues receipts, collects them - I've been downplaying it, I said he puts them in a shoebox - and once a year sums up his sales, submits his tax returns, and if, for example, taxes on a flat-rate basis, he doesn't have such significant bureaucracy in a wide range of professions. Unfortunately, in a number of occupations, the bureaucracy is absolutely enormous, even in those restaurants. But when people collect the receipts quite standardly and calculate how much they've made every once in a while, they don't have to deal with it because they're counting on the individual orders, they know whether they have the money in their account or not, so they don't have to figure out exactly how much they made on a particular day. So asking them once every three months to rewrite their sales completely unnecessaryly into a spreadsheet, which will then be sent to the tax office by paper form, seems to me to be a completely nonsensical obligation. I don't know who invented it. I suggested a compromise to add up after months. Unfortunately, that did not pass on the budget committee. I just don't understand this way of thinking, which just annoys people and complicates them with the opportunities to actually do business and to tax them properly. Instead, they must be completely absurdly committed to meaningless responsibilities. And here is an extremely senseless obligation - simply to show sales after days. Moreover, it will not be used in any reasonable way, because the Ministry has already said that it will not be rewritten anywhere in electronic form, so it will not be used in practice. So this is what I consider to be the main problem with the special electronic registration regime. For this reason, we think that the whole proposal is just a result of lobbying companies that sell the electronic cash registers, plus, of course, some PR ship by Andrej Babiš, his flagship by the ANO movement, that the taxes are levied when, in fact, VAT collection is stagnating heavily and the results of the EET are at least questionable. In my opinion, it is very difficult to measure the result of the EET for the Treasury. This is just a pluralized law that only the cashiers of those cash systems will earn, plus some of the larger businessmen will earn. That's why it's supported by the different business unions, that they limit competition, that the smallest ones close shop sometimes. That is why I propose to reject this bill for the pirate club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u11	I thank Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, who made the proposal for a pirate party. Now in the open general debate, Věra Kovářová, who will be the first to be signed up for the debate. The following is a statement from a colleague of Ferjenčík, his personal one. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think my colleague Ferjenčík has clearly described the complexity of the off-line system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u13	Madame, I will interrupt you at the very beginning and ask my colleagues for peace so that the debates that are outside the EET may be brought into the foyer so that you can present your position in peace. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u14	Let's do it again. I think my colleague Ferjenčík has made some clear arguments that say that this system is quite complex. It also applies to the off-line system. And of course, the mayor and independent club from the beginning says that it doesn't want too much burden for the smallest entrepreneurs. Therefore, we also propose that the whole system be simplified and that entrepreneurs who have a turnover of up to CZK 1 million are excluded from the EET system, i.e. VAT unpaid. Furthermore, we do not want the EET to fall too much on associations, on firefighters, footballers and others who organize various events and social life in the countryside and in cities. We are going to propose an amendment that concerns the exclusion from the EET of the revenues of publicly beneficial taxpayers, i.e. associations, from a small secondary business. We are concerned with the word "small" secondary business and the definition of the subject and the word "small business." Although the Ministry of Finance sets a limit in its methodology, which says that the small business business concerns those who have a turnover of up to CZK 300,000, and we introduce into the law sales when the associations had CZK 500,000 in the previous year and we consider it to be a provision of certain legal certainty. In general, we can say that we will join the motion for rejection, which Mr Ferjenčík has announced here, but at the same time we are also saying and we are aware that this bill is likely to pass. I will therefore sign up for these proposals in a detailed debate. The one concerning turnover of up to CZK 1 million, i.e. that these VAT payers would be excluded from the EET system, was filed together with our colleague Ferjenčík. And I am also glad that our proposal, which reduces VAT on e-books and audiobooks, has been reviewed in the Committee on Budgets and reduces it from 21 per cent to 10 per cent, i.e. 11 per cent. We believe that this will correct the discrepancy between the rate for printed books and books on other electronic media. It will also cover libraries and materials for downloading and making online reading available for payment. And for that, I thank the National Library and the Academy of Sciences for helping us with this amendment. And, of course, the Treasury, which also cooperated with us. So our position was expressed. And while we believe that this is not the right proposal, we are putting forward amendments to at least correct the damage that could be done to small entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, with his comments, my colleague, Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Mr. Ivan Adamec will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u16	Thank you for the floor. I will start to introduce my amendments to this press gradually. I would like them to have a debate. I think it's quite appropriate to remove the peanut from the EET. I think the sale of peanuts is an important sector in the Czech Republic. It's a traditional drink that's being sold seasonally, and I think it would be very unfortunate if we lost this drink to record our sales. So I suggest that the list of exceptions in the EET be extended by the sale of peanuts. According to available information, Burčák accounts for about 5 percent of the total wine production in the Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic, 650 thousand hectolitres of wine are produced annually. Of this, about 32 to 35,000 hectolitres are produced in a peanut. That is why I think the impact on the Czech Republic's overall management, if we removed the peanut from electronic sales records, would be quite small, but rather for the lives of those people who sell the peanut - and the peanut, if I am not mistaken, may be sold or sold by default only between 1 August and 30 November. So people who only sell peanuts four months a year will have to buy EETs completely absurdly. Someone who still doesn't need a smartphone for their business will have to get one. We know the situation in the Czech Republic with mobile data, which is rather trivial. Recently it cost the Minister of Industry and Trade a seat. So I'd really like to ask you to stand up for the burger salesman, which is a typical seasonal profession, and free them from the EET. At the end of this speech, I would add that the Constitutional Court, which annulled these passages of the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales, has just stated that the petitioners did not sufficiently address the issue of differences between different types of business in the Czech Republic. And a peanut is one of many cases where they simply haven't thought it through. The cases will continue, I will present some further amendments to this. I'm sure Stanjura has some prepared. Anyway, at this point, I'd like to put in a good word for releasing the peanut from the EET. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u17	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Also, colleague, wait a little while while it's quieter here. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, we are at second reading. I will try to limit myself to explaining my amendments, which I will then submit in the context of a detailed debate. However, let me say a few more words to the EET. You know, this is actually where the EET fight has been going on since last term. There's been a lot of words. And sometimes I feel like neither side nor side wants to listen. And I think it's like the whole nation. EET divided the nation into two groups. For those who have found pleasure in it, who love it, they think it will solve all the problems of our economic world, perhaps the profession, equality among businessmen, entrepreneurs. And others who say it's a bullying tool, that it's useless hazing, that it restricts business and that it divides society. The fact that it divides society is true. Finally, I experienced that even the people who have been in business for years, and the big businessmen who have made a restaurant for example within the golf course, so they envied the pub under the hill that he was able to make the food in order for a hundred crowns cheaper. And that's what bothered them, and that's why they thought the EET would solve it. When we started talking about electronic sales records and sales records at all, there were also words falling from statistics here, when the Czech Republic had no cash registers at all, neither registration nor electronic sales records at all, it was much better in terms of the grey economy than some other European Union states that had those cash registers in place. Of course, I am not talking about Croatia, which was an exception, which had a direct electronic record of sales. But I'm talking about those countries where they had classic registers, as you're used to when you go to Greece or Croatia on vacation. [[16.30 hours]] I think that the situation has not changed much, that it will be the same and that it is necessary to think macroeconomically about what this instrument brings us. If you look at the declared return, which unfortunately I can't assess, I would say, materially, I don't see the number, so 18 billion in the state budget is really a very marginal issue. How much you choose from it, I don't know. But I also looked at comparing how a large economy works in macroeconomic numbers, and renowned economists say that if the grey economy is at 15 percent, where the Czech Republic is around, the level can be improved not by repression, which the EET is a repressive tool, but can only be improved by simplifying taxes, reducing bureaucracy and simply changing the environment to be favourable to the business public. What happens now and will happen in the coming months, we all know that the trend will be completely opposite. So I don't expect any significant improvement. Maybe one example for all of us. You're from the country, you know. The country stores have ended. I'm not talking about pubs. That's been done many times. And what's happening now? They're all interested in restoring the country's stores. They even give them subsidies to sell goods on the villages. To make the stores work. You know, that reminds me of an old socialist motto. What moves, let's tax it properly, and what doesn't move, let's subsidize it. That's how we got to those villages. And I don't think this is the way. It's not a road. The path is to simplify the business environment, lower taxes, lower bureaucracy. But now I'm going to go to the amendments. I can say for myself that I'm very upset about a lottery called a receipt. It really bothers me. It's a state lottery. It bothers me for ethical reasons, because we're fighting against gambling and the state supports it here in a way that people do business with receipts that they get for buying goods somewhere else. This must be said quite openly. And on the other hand, it was said that there might be one day's receipt from one businessman, and it turns out that this system is easily circumstantial, it's even organized, it works on the Internet, we have different servers like bazaar receipts, Facebook groups and so on. I even found somewhere that one of the most active players on that receipt registered nearly 6,000 receipts in one month. This totally hit me in the eye. I don't think this is the way. And when I look at the economic results of that receipt, the number of players is still decreasing when I call them that, but the amount of receipts is also decreasing, but it's more or less decreasing significantly less than the number of players. What does that mean? That I think those players are just using the receipts within these bazaars, within the server groups. So it's not even economically a miracle. It's dropping. I've found some numbers here. In February this year the number of active players was 343 475 and the number of receipts in the draw was 12 783 019. The most active receipt was in November last year, and I'll also say the number so you know. There were 477 952 active players and the number of receipts was 14 564 956. Take it it's public press data. I can't say they're correct, they're true, and the secretary might give me more correct numbers, but according to these numbers, I see a big problem. So the receipt for me is an ethical, moral problem, and it's also an economic problem because it doesn't solve anything. When I look at the costs, of course, the state spends here, I don't know, 80 million crowns a year, and almost 20 percent of it is taken by the company that organizes the receipt. And now I'm not gonna talk about the technical issues, these are all marginal things that can be solved. But I still think that we should not encourage our citizens in this way to draw for receipts. I find it very undignified. In Slovakia, the receipt has the same tendency and I propose simply to cancel it in the framework of my amendment. Of course, if I could, I'd suggest we cancel the entire EET, but I know most people here have a different opinion about it. I take it pragmatically. I understand that, but I would appeal to you not to support this bill game, which people will actually pick up for buying their goods. That's one thing. The second thing I think needs to be reduced to fines. I think half a million tickets are too much. I suggest 100,000. And the last thing I propose in my amendments, I want to eliminate or abolish the obligation to publish an information notice on how sales are recorded and the related adjustments. Those are the signs on the store where everyone comes in, and they're gonna be blown to the eye that, of course, there's an EET going on, which is going to be virtually everywhere. I take that as an unnecessary duty and to fine for this unabated duty seems very vague to me. I think that there will be a number of amendments, that the situation of the EET view will not change this way, that there will be a company divided into two currents. And I think that there really is a need to encourage business, encourage it, and not by repression, but by improving the business environment, reducing bureaucracy and reducing taxes, because economists, especially the macro-economics, say that 15 percent of the grey economy, where the Czech Republic belongs, and Germany is a little off, so the lower economy can no longer be improved through repression, virtually. You can't improve the clean economy, and the gray economy will fall into that black economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u19	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Válek, will now be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am aware that I have said my opinion several times here at first reading, but this is still such a strong law that will affect the business environment, that it is necessary to repeat some of the arguments that I said here in the first reading, and then I will gradually get to the various amendments that I have tabled personally as part of the ODS amendments. I have said here, and I think so to this day, and no one has led me out of it yet, that EET has become a symbol of distrust of entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. And this mistrust was artificially created and plannedly fueled by the ANO movement. The representatives of the ANO movement who created this have actually played on the lowest instincts of our society, such as human envy and de facto class hatred. The company was thus artificially divided into employees on the one hand and tradesmen on the other. That's a scar on the face of a company that's going to be very difficult to heal. The tradesmen put on a dog's head, which must also have a collar in the form of online surveillance. A collar that the businessmen themselves will pay for. It's at their own expense. Because in this case, the State has actually transferred the cost of control directly to the entrepreneurs. And in hand with this control came restrictions and punishment by the state not for someone wanting to circumvent their tax obligations, but for administrative misconduct or for the banal mistakes of their employees. The state wants businessmen and entrepreneurs to know all tax legislation, to be taxpayers, to be accountants, to be job safety experts, to be quality managers, to be statistics in their businesses, to be personalists, to be experts in waste and energy management and to know many other standards and regulations that the state controls and enforces. All of this requires the time and energy that entrepreneurs devote to the state on the basis of the decision of the state and the decision of this grand House, but not to the gros, on their own business. At the same time, their daily efforts and activities are a prerequisite for our state's economic prosperity. It is for this activity that they are then "rewarded" by permanent distrust. And the permanent distrust of the massive majority of honest businessmen and entrepreneurs is bothering because, of course, in society's atmosphere, it's affected them. [[16.40 hours]] In our state, there has been a steady increase in the democratic deficit in recent years. This is characterised by increasing the powers of the state at the expense of citizens' rights. Specifically, in the EET it is characterized by various fines for administrative misconduct, for banality type of non-transfer of time to winter time or summer time, early booking of box tic tac within a few seconds or not placing a table with information about the EET at the plant etc. Or, for example, with gallows time limits for businessmen within the framework of the inspection report. Entrepreneurs, especially the small ones, are in an unequal position compared to the state. But the state should be a partner of businessmen and middle class. It is restrictive not to be the one punishing at all costs, and many tradesmen often call it bullying. The number of checks shows how the Financial Administration got a whip in the hands of businessmen. But the foundation of the state's prosperity is not the growth of state power, permanent distrust and tightening screws for small businessmen. Private activity is at the heart of the state's economic prosperity. And we - and I say it here all the time and repeat it and I will repeat it - will be happy for every person who can take care of himself in the future, his family. He can earn money, offer his services to his surroundings, give even many people work, contribute to the health and social system of the Czech Republic and is not dependent on the social support of the state. And unfortunately, the YES movement in the government, thanks to the EET, this natural model is plottingly destroying. Because what's an EET? This is just a symbol of the fact that businessmen are only a source of revenue to the state budget for the state. We have access to the middle class and tradesmen other, and I will therefore present several amendments here. The first amendment I want to introduce to you, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, de facto cancels the start of the third and fourth EET wave. Fiscal revenues from the already established first and second EET waves are debatable. When you look at how individual revenues grow, the economy grows, so there are no significant differences in trends between when the EET is not introduced, and the EET. We really cannot tell whether one crown of income in the state budget came because we have economic growth in the Czech Republic, the entrepreneur and the businessman visited a new client, or the existing client paid more services because we simply live in economic growth - or because EET had previously brought about the discovery of this black market. I don't think so, I believe entrepreneurs and I really think that the Ministry of Finance cannot clearly and 100% prove that the benefits of EET are what they try to tell us in press releases. On the contrary, the expansion of the EET will lead to an increase in the administrative complexity of business in different sectors, in different fields. The Treasury doesn't distinguish between them. But what Ferjenčík said was right here, that before we should really think about whether there is a difference between a small businessman somewhere in a village and a large supermarket. So the EET does not lead to a settlement of the business environment, but rather leads to an increase in the administrative and even financial demands of the business. Because the cost of business activities will clearly increase. These are not one-off expenses from EET contractors, this is not just a one-off cost to buy the equipment. These are the costs of managing the equipment, of maintaining the equipment, of securing the connection, etc. For this reason, I believe that this is not an instrument that balances but, on the contrary, an instrument that brings inequality into the business environment. And I would only be here to support this amendment, to read only part of the dissenting position of some constitutional judges against the statement of the U.S. Court to assess the EET. Let me quote this: Before the introduction of the EET, the state should therefore have been honest and very thorough in examining whether all the less invasive and harassing options available to it to control the correct and fair collection of taxes have been exhausted. However, none of this has happened in the present case, although the introduction of an EET clearly constitutes an additional administrative and financial burden on the business activities of entrepreneurs. Sticking to the mere fact that the introduction of the EET is very likely to lead to an increase in tax collection, and therefore it will also stand up from a constitutionally legal point of view, is very dangerous and exploitable. The introduction of the EET under the publicly presented, albeit empirically unsubstantiated political impression that no one pays taxes, and therefore it is appropriate to tighten their selection, namely, we consider it equally unreasonable and unfair in our consequences as leaving the whole class after school just because one student disturbed at an hour. Unfortunately, this entry point is a fundamental philosophy of the contested law and is not addressed by the removal of only a few of its most elusive interventions in privacy and freedom of business. Therefore, for these reasons, and I agree with this dissenting position of part of the constitutional judges, I propose an amendment that repeals the enlargement of the EET, the third and fourth waves. Another amendment that I have taken the liberty of uploading into the system is similar, which my colleague Ivan Adamec said, is to abolish a senseless obligation to place an EET table on every establishment. So if we want to fight tax evasion, what's the point of punishing individual entrepreneurs for putting up or putting some sort of table on an establishment. This is a classic example of what I said that there is a democratic deficit and an increase in the unnecessary powers of the state at the expense of the rights of the tradesmen. Therefore, I propose this obligation, which is pointless, does not lead at all to the originally declared objective of implementing the EET without compensation. The other three proposals that I will present to you are not directly related to the EET, but are related to the inspection report. Because it was another measure that affected the business sector in some way. And we need to see that even in this inspection report some deadlines and some fines are disproportionate. One of the amendments I am proposing responds to the fact that, as part of the adoption of the so-called a tax package a few months ago, there was a fundamental change in the sense of the imposition of fines by the tax administrator. The legislation still in force prior to the adoption of the package, which had just been amended with the tax package, initially envisaged the granting of a fine for error under § 101h para. 1 or 2 of the tax rules. Those are fines if someone gave a late inspection report or didn't fix it. The tax package changed this to the fact that the tax administrator, if he considers that the businessman is thwarting tax administration, could impose a fine of up to half a million crowns, which is the liquidation amount, even to the person who gave the inspection report in time, but did not complete it completely, virtually. didn't fill out all the data exactly. So there is no penalty for failure to comply with tax obligations, but there is also punishment for trying to fulfil tax obligations and administrative obligations by giving the entrepreneur a check report, but unfortunately, there may be some error. And in such a case, the state should first approach the attempt, in cooperation with the entrepreneur, to eliminate the error and not immediately punish it with a liquidation penalty. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary to demonstrate first the intention of aggravating or obstructing taxes. I therefore propose an amendment that changes this fine to the option before the tax package. And I believe that you will join in this because it really doesn't make sense to so liquidate entrepreneurs for administrative misconduct. [[16.50 hours]] The other two amendments also concern the control report. If you've been talking to businessmen, you've found that they don't have a five-day deadline to complete or correct the inspection report on the basis of a call. The current five-day period is completely disproportionate. Anything can happen in life, you can have an accountant on vacation, she can be sick and so on, and the five-day period is really disproportionate for businessmen, and then the penalty phase is coming. This is why the amendment tabled wants to change the current unequal position of the state and entrepreneurs. While the State has a deadline in most of its notifications and comments in the order of weeks, the citizen of an entrepreneur must submit corrective information on the inspection report at the time of five days. This deadline, as I have already said here, leads to many complications when citizens easily get into conflict with the law without wanting to circumvent their tax obligations. In particular, for small businessmen and small entrepreneurs who have limited working capacity to perform the administrative tasks imposed without representativeness, and for enterprises using a separate external accountant, the current five-day period is completely but completely disproportionate. I therefore believe that the time to add or confirm data in the control report should be increased from five to fifteen days. It is a reasonable time for an entrepreneur to be able to correct his inspection reports, but there will be no tax damage to the State. That is essential, and that is the motive of my proposal. Another amendment responds to the fact that the system in the control report is repeatedly and rightly criticised for excessive fines, particularly in situations where only administrative misconduct is involved, despite the fact that the tax entity is trying to correct its misconduct. The aim of this amendment is either in the variant And the cancellation, or in variant B, at least a reduction in the fine to a quarter of the amount for entrepreneurs who submit a control report additionally, without being called upon by the Financial Administration. It is a classic example - an entrepreneur remembers it in a rush of his duties a day later and gives himself a will check report later. In such a case, there is no reason for such an entrepreneur to be punished by a fine, because his conduct does not really lead to circumvention of his tax obligations, but rather tries to fulfil his obligations. I'll give you a specific example from another field. If we all get, and I admit it, sometimes I forget to pay my cell phone bill, and I get a call from my mobile operator that if I pay within a time limit, there's no penalty. I thank mobile operators for that, because sometimes under a rush of duty, one normally forgets, and that can happen to entrepreneurs. And the state shouldn't punish entrepreneurs for remembering late. On the contrary, he should appreciate them for remembering and submitting inspection reports without calling on the tax administrator. The second amendment, which this amendment brings in both its variants, is a reduction in the fine for entrepreneurs who have not submitted a control report and subsequently submitted it after being called upon by the tax administrator within a substitute period. To me, an existing fine of CZK 10,000 for such an act seems very disproportionate. Again - somebody can forget, get a challenge, correct their error and submit a check report. I see no reason why the tax administrator could fine up to CZK 10,000. Therefore, I propose that this be reduced to one quarter, that is to say CZK 2.5,000, which is, in my view, sufficient sanctions to motivate entrepreneurs in the future to send an early inspection report and, at the same time, not a drastic punishment for possible administrative misconduct. This is my five amendments, which I will further sign up to in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u21	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Mr Vlastimil Válek now, Mr Blaha will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I've been thinking, ladies and gentlemen. I will not go back to what has been said here by previous drafters, and I will focus very closely on explaining the specific problem that concerns practitioners and practitioners for children and adolescents, and that is that these doctors have the overwhelming majority of payments made through health insurance companies and only a small part of the payments they have in cash, but this part of the payments, which is in cash, is often just a flow through these ambulances. Typical examples are vaccines where the doctor buys the vaccine for a clear amount, without having any margin, sells it to the patient and at the same time gives the patient a certificate with which he goes to the health insurance company and, in a number of cases, then cashes the vaccine. In the same way, payments of some certificates are made - typically it can be a certificate for health care stays, it can be a certificate for driving licences of adolescents, where it is always issued again, and the patient pays for this certificate and receives a ticket with information that he then goes to the medical insurance company, it can be for school or another institution that partially or fully pays him what he paid for with the practical doctor. For these reasons, the record of these payments is absolutely accurate and clear, and there can be hardly any leaks. The second thing to be aware is that all these activities are de facto done by these doctors on a custom basis for the state, the state wants them to do it, and the same state is looking for ways to facilitate the implementation of these activities by the Ministry of Health. Let us remember the debate that has already been partially heard here, which has been expressed intensely in the committees of the parties supplying vaccines to practical doctors, when we finally agreed that the distribution of vaccines will not be via pharmacies, but will be directly distributors to the practical physicians for children and adolescents precisely because of the reason that vaccination will be reduced here. [[You didn't?]] So the state is trying to follow these incentives and demands, so that practical doctors increase the vaccination of children and adolescents and generally the vaccination of our population, trying to make sure that there are as little problems as possible with issuing these various certificates, and now suddenly this activity is in a situation where it will have to be reported not only by the way of the EET, but at the same time it will still have to be issued the same confirmations for the insurance company so that the patient will have vaccines, or any other confirmation, paid simply because there is not enough information required by the EET document in case of reimbursement. I am now proposing this amendment mainly because I have concerns that arise from discussions with a number of professional companies, the Czech Medical Chamber and many other doctors in my area, in order not to reduce and disrupt these activities. Let me give you an example: if we marry a doctor from Brno, who is a practical doctor, has 1,200 children registered, then last year almost 600,000 crowns passed through her for vaccines, from which she had no margin, no profit. What she bought them for, she charged the patients for it, and those patients got paid for most of it. So this is where my amendment is headed, which I will then apply to in the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u23	I thank Mr Válek for his speech. Mr Blaha and then Mr Josef Kott will be ready to speak. Before I give him the floor, I will make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies: from 18 pm to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologizes. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, what the introduction of EET means to businessmen, especially the smallest, has already been said here in the House, if not all. I am convinced that the most correct approach to the case would be the complete abolition of electronic sales records. It turns out that this will not be possible, since the EET has become an idol of the current left-wing government, and it will do everything it can to enforce it, not even the Constitutional Court's finding. I therefore welcome a number of amendments aimed at at least at mitigating the effects of the EET, especially the smallest ones. I myself will sign up for two amendments in a detailed debate. The first one has already been heard here several times today, it is an increase in the amount of turnover discussed which the entrepreneur must achieve in order to automatically have to introduce electronic records of sales. That's CZK 200,000. The most commonly mentioned is an increase to CZK 600,000. I suggest that we go even higher and increase it so that the special regime affects all natural persons who are not taxpayers of value added tax, i.e. with sales up to CZK 1,000,000. The limit of CZK 200,000 is meaningless, because it concerns only those for whom business is only a small profit. My second amendment wants to protect the small entrepreneurs concerned by the special regime from the administration, for which I, personally, would probably stop doing business in their place. According to the current version of the Act, they must keep copies of all paper receipts and report on them regularly every quarter. This could mean that, in the current situation, when the record of sales under a special regime applies to entrepreneurs with income up to CZK 200,000 per year, they would send a sales report of CZK 50,000 every three months, averaged at CZK 12,500 per month on the naive assumption that the entrepreneur has no costs. This, of course, also concerns checks in the form of control purchases made by Financial Administration staff and tax returns. And here I come to the core of my amendment. This proposal is intended mainly to simplify. And keeping copies of all receipts plus reporting four times a year plus filing a tax return plus the possibility of random controls Financial administration is not about simplification. Let's let the small businessmen actually do business. Let's not give them paperwork for paperwork. The state is not supposed to bully them with control, but it should support them. Therefore, in my amendment, I propose only checks in the form of annual tax returns and random checks by the Financial Administration. I hereby ask you to support not only my amendment, but also the work of small entrepreneurs and businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u25	Thank you. Mr Kott will also speak in the debate, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Mr Kott is not present at the moment, so we will move him to the conclusion of the general debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I will ask Mr Ferjenčík to take the floor. Vice-President Pikal will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will continue to introduce my amendments. So a moment ago, I presented a proposal to remove the peanut from the EET. Now another proposal that I make with my colleague Kovářová from the STAN movement, and that is a proposal to allow traders to print the receipts instead of having to collect them at the financial offices. What's going on? The proposal from the Ministry of Finance's workshop leads to the fact that all participants in the special electronic sales registration regime, i.e. entrepreneurs with cash income up to CZK 600,000 - there are some other conditions, but these are probably not so important in terms of the law. The only important thing is that, unfortunately, it must be VAT payers, which, for example, is the cases mentioned by Mr Válek, which is where entrepreneurs have VAT or pay VAT, but they could normally use that limit of 600,000. However, these people have to collect their receipts at the tax office today. We consider it a complete journey back to any digitization of the state and suggest that they have the opportunity to print the receipts themselves. Firstly, this will save costs with a visit to the Office. It would also save state resources, because the state would need to print less of those receipts. I don't know how many tens of millions it's gonna cost, but it's gonna be a pretty big public contract. It seems quite questionable to me that the Ministry is declaring it before the law ever came into force, so public money is being spent on implementing a law that is not yet approved. However, it is unfortunately life in this country. Anyway, we think it's absurd that businessmen can't print the receipts themselves. It's supposed to be an option. The main advantage of printing the receipts themselves is that they will then be able to preload all the mandatory data into the receipt, except for the amount for which they issue the receipt, which is absolutely essential for us. In fact, the Ministry of Finance's proposal returns the period to the Czech Republic by stamp. The time of stampation is really coming back, because the moment you have the receipt that you have paid on the IRS, of course there won't be any specific details of your company, such as your registered office, or other things that the law will require. So you're going to have to write all that data by hand, or you're going to have to get a stamp. I therefore say that this amendment to the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales returns the period to the Czech Republic by stamp. We think that the stamp time should be over, which is why we propose to allow businessmen to print the receipts themselves. We think there's a reasonable way to make sure that their receipt is unique, that they're gonna put their tax identification number in there. We are aware that someone may have a problem with this, because in some cases the tax identification number matches the number of their birth. That's what we think is a mistake in itself, but it needs to be corrected in another law. At the same time, we think that our solution is constitutionally sound, because people will be able to choose for themselves whether this disadvantage is worth printing these receipts themselves, or, if they don't want to put their VAT number on the receipt, they'll pick up a receipt on the IRS with a code that the IRS will assign to them. So this is a simple change that I propose along with my colleague Kovářová. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Vice-President Pikal. Mr Kott will be ready. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u28	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak on this subject initially, but I must, because it is my turn and because, as a matter of fact, I have a bit of a problem with the law. However, I have prepared only a minor amendment which, I think, is trying to address a actually minor issue that might not seem to be relevant because it seeks to address a subject that is neglected in this law, which otherwise concerns taxes, state budgets and the equality of our business environment, and that is the environment and ecology. [[17.10 hours]] The introduction of the EET leads to the fact that the receipts printed by our dealers are longer by two centimeters, while they are already doing some kilometers dangerous, you could say, or at least toxic printed paper, which actually contains bisphenol, which is dangerous, up to cancer-forming, affects some endocrine issues, and if we want to talk about our safe environment, that we have problems with birth, fertility and such things, maybe we should also deal with these problems. And I really don't think there's any way that EET is helping, that there's an obligation to issue a receipt. So I have an amendment, it is House document 2645, it is in the system, but these are minor changes, where the words "on request" are added in Section 18 - which will actually lead to those who want to play účtenkovka, when we have already introduced it, or those who want to check whether it has registered trade, or those who like to hide receipts, so that they know where they were, so that they can document their presence somewhere and so on, of course, they are entitled to the receipt, they can ask for it, we will print it, and of course the obligation of electronic record remains, for which the law has been introduced, so that we can get rid of the paperwork, so that the office communicates with the trader electronically, not in paper. Let's get rid of the paperwork, let's communicate electronically and let's give people the chance to reject the receipt if they don't want it. I'm always swamped with receipts, personally it bothers me, because I know I don't need to print the miles of paper that I don't want, which I don't want to throw out because I know it's completely useless to me, I don't want to control anyone, I don't need to play a účtenkovka, I don't need any other gambling run by the state. So I don't think it has a general sense, and I'd like to ask all of you to support this amendment to the law, which is a step towards a cleaner environment for all our citizens, whether they're in business or not, but even for those who buy what sometimes go to buy two three rolls, they get a poisonous receipt. You may reject it, but the trader must print it. It's a bunch of useless waste. This really isn't the way forward. Let's go towards electronization, get rid of unnecessary paper. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u29	Thank you. Mr Kott, so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I have taken the liberty of preparing an amendment on the sale of Christmas carp, and I would like to make a brief statement. The seasonal sale of live fish on stands before Christmas holidays takes place in the order of no more than one week. It is not economical for salesmen of Christmas carp, producers or sales agencies to purchase for one week in a year cashiers to record sales which they will otherwise not use throughout the year. Complicated is also the use of outdoor equipment during the winter period, where they may be inoperable due to temperatures falling below the freezing point and wet environment. The Ministry of Finance currently proposed the possibility of recording sales in the so-called special regime using paper sales records, which are receipts blocks, is intended only for small entrepreneurs, natural persons who do not have sales as their business but only as additional activity. Therefore, it is not possible to include the seller of freshwater fish in the proposed amendment to the Act before Christmas because they do not meet the criteria set out in Section 11 (1) of the Act. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) to (c). Therefore, it is proposed to insert a new Section 11b, which addresses the issue of the still non-existent record of sales and, at the same time, proper proof of revenue from this activity for the sale of freshwater fish before Christmas, while allowing these sellers to continue to carry out activities which would otherwise have become inefficient and technically difficult to perform, with a negative impact on the pre-Christmas sale of domestic aquaculture products. Paragraph 2 of the proposed provision will ensure that the Financial Administration has an overview of these establishments using the special arrangements for registration of sales. The fee shall indicate in the application the establishments in which the pre-Christmas period of freshwater fish is sold and, where appropriate, which it is planning to operate. If, at the time of submission of the application, the taxpayer does not yet have such an establishment, typically because he does not yet know where the fish will be sold, he shall also state this fact in the application. In addition, establishments where sales from the sale of freshwater fish covered by that authorisation are to be accepted shall also be subject to the notification obligation under Section 17 of the Sales Recording Act; the establishment must therefore be notified by the taxpayer to the tax administrator pursuant to § 17 para. 2, that is within 15 days of the establishment's establishment, but not later than before the first recorded sales at that establishment. Blocks of receipts for establishments in which pre-Christmas sales of freshwater fish will take place may be made by the taxpayer pursuant to Section 15 (1) (a). 2, to pick up after notification of the authorisation decision for registration of sales from the sale of freshwater fish under a special scheme, however, only for the establishments indicated in the application for this authorisation. For establishments whose taxable persons are not notified to the tax administrator after obtaining the authorisation pursuant to § 17, the receipt block may only be taken over after such notification, because under § 15a para. 1 The sales registration law is issued for individual, namely specified, establishments. As long as the tax administrator does not know about the existence of the establishment, it is not possible to transfer a block of these receipts for it. At the same time, it shall be ensured that, in the case of transmission of data on the registered revenue by the tax administrator, that is to say, from a place other than an establishment for which an authorisation has been granted to register sales from the sale of freshwater fish under a special scheme, i.e. only for the period of pre-Christmas sale of fish, no such authorisation shall be terminated immediately. To the termination of the permit pursuant to § 11b para. 5 shall occur only if the data report is sent to the premises where the sales covered by the authorisation are to be made from 17 to 24 December. So short a statement of reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u31	Thank you. With a factual point, Mr Ferjenčík is prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u32	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond to suggestions on carp in general. I think that far more sensible than introducing a special electronic registration regime for carp so that fishermen in the cold in December have to fill out some paper receipts with wet hands, it is much more logical to remove it completely. Of course, the most logical thing is not to introduce the third, fourth wave at all. But if we're talking about third, fourth wave, it's logical to take it out completely. The solution through some special regime seems really strange to me in the context of the very work with wet fish. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u33	Thank you. Mr Kott will respond with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u34	I take the liberty of responding to the previous speaker. It is a compromise with which the fishing association agrees, because they themselves feel that the sale and production of Czech freshwater fish is at some level, and they are trying to maintain the sale of these fish. And they feel the need to keep the records. So this is a compromise between the receipt and the electronic device.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u35	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík will respond with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u36	Thank you for the floor. I understand that the Fishermen's Union likes to relieve any obligations, especially when you just have 108 votes in the House, so logically they take any improvement. And unfortunately, it's also a compromise with common sense, and instead of really making sense and there being an exception, there's just some kind of correction mechanism that I don't think is going to work ideally. I would borrow the Minister's words here: But they already have the obligation to register income in Section 93 of the Tax Code, so why do they have to do it again? [[Attention.]] Ninety-seven. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u37	Thank you. Mr Jurečka, Mr. Jurečka, will now be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u38	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, let me also make my views known here in the general debate and also make a brief comment on some amendments which I want to adapt to some of the parameters of both the EET and the general Parliamentary Press 205, as I have already presented and commented on some of my proposals for the negotiations of the Economic Committee as well as the Budget Committee. I will start with the VAT-related adjustments because I have noted that the current government coalition has declared that it wants to reduce the tax burden, has prepared several reductions in VAT within both rates, to reduce to the lower, even to the lowest. I took the liberty of proposing a tax reduction for organic foods I tried last year. It seems a logical step for us to support the sector not only of organic food, but, above all, to support the sector of organic farming because of added value, the positive externalities that this sector has and which are not quite at first sight visible and financially enumerable, but the fact that we have farmers who do not manage the use of pesticides, fertilisers, but manage as much as possible in accordance with nature, so I think that there is something that should deserve support, and I am trying to meet this in this way of reducing the VAT on organic foods. If we can reduce VAT to, for example, food or beverages such as beer, I think the organic sector would deserve that, too. The impact on the state budget is relatively small and I think that, overall, the farmer-eco-farmer-biofood producer chain could help the state in this way to increase the share of organic food on the Czech market, so that these healthy and quality foods are available to wider population in the Czech Republic. Then I also have an amendment concerning the reduction of VAT on firewood, wood pellets, briquettes. It's primarily a reaction to two things. The first is a catastrophic situation in the woods, but at the same time the difficult situation in the wood market in the Czech Republic is associated with this, and I would like to allow this amendment to allow wood to be used more in the Czech Republic as a renewable source in the domestic combustion process, so that households have more incentive to use this fuel because they often drown environmentally unsuitable fuels not because they want these households, but because it is the most economically acceptable and affordable alternative for them. So I'm also presenting this proposal here. Budgetaryly, it's not a big amount either. I have a clear explanation for this in my explanatory report, and I would like to see a consensus on this, too, because we support both business entities that do wood processing, but also households in the Czech Republic, and indirectly the whole project of boiler subsidies under Green or New Green Savings. Then I also allow myself to propose an increase in the VAT cap. I have two alternative suggestions. One increases this limit from 1 miles. CZK 1.5 miles. CZK, possibly alternative proposal to increase to CZK 2 million. Kč. This is a reaction to the fact that in the past this border was set for 2004 and since then the effect of inflation has been shifted to a limit of 1 million. CZK could fit far more entrepreneurs than it is today. I will understand the Minister's reasoning, which she said in the Committee's meeting, but I think that at least the Czech Republic should send out a clear signal in relation to the EU that there is simply a need for some sort of valorisation. Furthermore, I propose a reduction in VAT in the area of housing, namely in the area of investment in the so-called social housing, such as flats up to 120 square meters, that is, construction activities related to repair, with the construction of these flats to be at the lowest reduced rate of 10 per cent and also new flats to be reduced from 21% of the rate to 15% of the rate. Once again, I understand the Ministry of Finance's arguments from the point of view of uniform legislation, which is why I am making a proposal for these two proposals to shift efficiency as of 1 January 2021, so that there is room for the Ministry of Finance and this government to negotiate either exemption or change European legislation in this area. Furthermore, I dare to make an adjustment to the EET and, in particular, to the person who will fall into the EET. I'm putting two alternative proposals here - to remove entities that have sales up to 750 thousand. CZK, as I presented at the meeting of both the budget and the economic committee. I can see there's not much will to do that. I therefore also give an alternative proposal setting this limit at the limit of 200 thousand. EUR. I also follow the arguments of the Ministry of Finance, respectively. their reference to the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court refers in this area to the example of Austria, where they have such a limit in Austria, so I have therefore taken the liberty of proposing this limit of 200 thousand. EUR, so that these entities are not required to be in the electronic record of sales. Furthermore, there is also a proposal that deals with the pre-Christmas sale of fish in the Czech Republic in order to be fully removed from the electronic record of sales, so that, as has been said in the previous debate, these vendors are not simply forced to write and distribute paper blocks here, because these sales points are in the register of state supervisory authorities, in the record of the state veterinary administration, so that if the state wants to and the financial authorities cooperate, they can very well verify what sales are taking place here in these places, and they can prevent any suspicion of tax evasion from happening here. And then I will also make a motion to remove the subjects from the third and fourth waves, as I presented them at the meeting of the two committees - both economic and budgetary. I am happy to comment on these proposals in such a general statement and in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. President Stanjura is entered in the general debate with priority rights. Before I give him my word, I'll read the apologies. Ms Marcela Melková, for reasons of work from 17.30 to 19.00, Mr František Petrtýl, for reasons of work from 17.30 to 19.00, Mr Mikuláš Peksa, from 17.00 to the end of this week, for reasons of health and Mrs Andrea Babišová, from 17.15 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u40	Thank you for the floor. I have promised the Committee on Budgets that we will keep the political and technical debate in plenary, not the committee, so I am directing my first speech to the general debate and we will see how much I can do today and, if necessary, I am prepared to justify our amendments in a detailed debate. I have read the basic amendment to our club and entered it into the system. The House document has number 2646. It's printed here, and we used two-sided prints so we wouldn't have too much paper. [[Shows a stack of A4 leaves approximately 5 cm thick.]] I will try to justify these amendments. There's less than 800 of them, it's not an overly high number. But first, in general. In the debate at first reading, we have repeatedly tried to debate with the Minister and with those who defended the EET, and the subject of the debate was, among other things, the alleged benefits of the EET to the budget. We asked the secretary on the budget committee... I know you're being disturbed by the vice president of the club. It's not your fault, Madam Secretary. We asked the Minister for a budget committee whether we could be presented with a methodology according to which the Ministry of Finance, with such optimism and such enthusiasm and enthusiasm, announced the alleged budget benefits of the EET. I must thank the Minister. There was a meeting that I believe all the members of the Budget Committee were invited to, the meeting took place at the Ministry of Finance. Madam Secretary was duly excused, but the Deputy Director was in charge. [[17.30 hours]] And I have the presentation with me. If you were expecting some sophisticated, sophisticated model of alleged EET benefits, you would be disappointed as I am. The overall presentation, with the title of electronic sales records, a seminar on budgetary implications and with the decent thanks, has ten pages. If we look at the content, we're essentially going to find out that this is the whole methodology of the alleged contribution of the EET. [[shows]] It has three lines and then two when one subtracts row three from row two and the other line three from row one or so. The meeting lasted, I don't know, almost two hours. Many colleagues and many colleagues - I see Mrs Kovářová - took part in this meeting and I must say that the Ministry has not convinced us that the methodology is correct. Basically The Ministry of Finance took one single number that is actually verified, at least I assume it is verified, we didn't question it at all, and that is the VAT collection of the sector, which is burdened with the first and second EET wave, and compared it to the collection a year earlier when the wave wasn't. These are numbers that are based on a regular monthly report published by the Ministry of Finance, there is nothing to contradict. But when we find out the difference in the implementation, and there's this debate about methodology coming up, we actually have to explain and methodically figure out how the increase actually happened, and then we can tell what the effects were involved in the increase and whether the effects are quantified enough. And the Ministry of Finance has done so - and now I will borrow an expression from a fellow member of the budget committee of Mr Ferjenčík - has sucked out something called autonomous VAT growth without EET, which has deducted from the total collection, which has led to the alleged positive impact of the EET on the state budget. And we got this explanation, it's got about six lines, so if I tell you, I'm sure I won't keep you. On the first line, the question is: How to define autonomous economic growth in VAT? And I have to say, that's the key question in the debate about potential benefits. Because if we're able to define autonomous growth, that means without any government influence, any government, then we're left with the difference, and then we can debate whether there was a control report, whether there was an EET, whether there was any other legislative or executive measure of the government. And how the Ministry of Finance answered this question, how to define autonomous economic growth. First, the general sentence for total VAT that it is household consumption and final consumption expenditure of general government, that it is used either in the OECD or that it is used by the European Commission. It was forgotten - this was one of the questions we asked when we were talking about the accommodation sector - foreign tourists. The Ministry of Finance completely forgot about that, as if for example. in the area of accommodation foreign tourists did not go to the Czech Republic at all and in those hotels lived either citizens or officials of government institutions, which is certainly happening, but certainly not in a hundred percent. Then the current budget estimate or autonomous economic growth is assessed always at current prices, which we are in agreement, which is certainly a good thing. But at the same time, the Ministry of Finance notes that gross added value is inappropriate in terms of VAT. This is actually an argumentative solution to the fact that there was some economic growth that can be quantified, which quantifys the Czech Statistical Office, but at the same time the Ministry of Finance tells us that this figure is inappropriate. So be it. So gross added value is inappropriate. Suppose the Treasury is right. At the same time, he says it should be at current prices, that's consent. But it doesn't match how to get an estimate of the autonomous growth. Respectfully, he answers, but it really feels like a mathematical exercise... No, it wasn't math yet, it was first grade calculus when I went to school. Mathematics was second grade. It says that the retail, accommodation and catering sector is largely influenced by the purchases of final consumers, which is undoubtedly true. Therefore, consumption of households and general government has been chosen as a fundamental. And now there are two figures coming in that the Treasury made up to fit into their alleged calculation. The share of household and government consumption in NACE 55 is 97 percent and the share of household and government consumption in NACE 56, which is... I would say the code list of economic activities, I hope this is how the secretary agrees with me that we could call it NACE - that's 96 percent. We don't get tourists at all. Four percent tops. Do you really consider it a believable fact that 96 per cent is sold to Czech households and Czech government and 4 per cent of the accommodation sold, i.e. overnights, is sold to tourists? So if we only take the number of tourists who visited the Czech Republic and add to that the average length of stay, we calculate the average number of nights, respectively. nights paid by tourists, so we find that most of the Czech population does not live in houses, apartments or rentals, or their own, but lives in hotels. And they pay for accommodation every day. I just don't think it's right. But at the same time, when we wanted the Ministry of Finance to compare it with sales growth and VAT growth in other areas, the Ministry of Finance says: In other sectors, it will be necessary to look for different indicators. You'll need to look for different indicators. We logically wanted, if you're saying that VAT revenue grew this way for the activities that are imposed on the EET, let's see how much VAT is growing for activities that are not imposed on the EET, and compare these figures in percentage terms. The answer is: We need to look for different indicators. Unfortunately, the Czech Statistical Office does not publish final consumption by industry, the choice of indicators is limited. And that's it, actually. This is what the Ministry of Finance calls the methodology of calculations of the allegedly favourable budgetary impacts of the EET. Neither 96 per cent or 97 per cent is justified in any way. Perhaps the Minister will convince me that 96 percent of the accommodation is paid by our citizens. I just don't believe it, if the Treasury... [[A reminder off the microphone.]] That's right. Then I'd like to know the number of nights, Madam Secretary. The number of nights Czech citizens spend in Czech hotels when I don't know if more than 10 million tourists visited the Czech Republic last year, how many nights they ordered and how many households. I just don't believe it, but if, for example, a colleague, the Minister of Regional Development, gives you information - I think that information is identifiable - I apologize. [[with laughter]] But other than that, the number is really sucked out of the finger. 96 percent of accommodation is paid by Czech households. You're all from some town. Ask mainly in Prague whether 96 percent of beds are made up of Czech citizens in Prague hotels, where undoubtedly the hotel capacity is by far the largest and is certainly above average to the population of other cities. [[17.40 hours]] So, in summary, we can actually say that the Ministry of Finance is not able to demonstrate in any way that the autonomous growth of the economy in those sectors where the first and second waves of EET are already imposed, compare it with autonomous growth in other sectors where the EET is not yet imposed, and then, because it should be roughly the same, or it should be higher, if the government's theory is that higher revenues are shown thanks to the EET, the growth in that period should be higher. We are logically, possibly in order for the Ministry of Finance to confirm this hypothesis, so we wanted it to go more in the past to compare revenue in those areas during the period when the EET was simply not yet, in 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013 to see what growth was like without the EET in those years. No such numbers are available, and according to the seminar it is very difficult to get to those numbers, and if we had any numbers - virtually. The Ministry of Finance published some figures, yet one can be questioned because the laws were changed, there were various economic situations, sometimes there was economic growth, sometimes there was economic stagnation. But that is why the economic growth in income should respond to the overall level of the economy, and those figures should clearly show it. For example, in the years when GDP fell, revenue fell, at a time when GDP was plus minus zero, it was zero, and when the economy grew and there was no EET, VAT revenue grew in these activities, whether with or without EET. None of this is available. So once again, just so you know - and the government MPs are very happy to talk about it, as the Ministry of Finance calculated and convincingly showed how many billions it has brought - so it is actually four numbers that no one is questioning, that is, VAT revenue in the last year without EET and in the first year of EET. That's all. And we agree on that, we don't need the Treasury for that, that's public data. I've been making tables for years, so I see it month after month based on how the Treasury publishes monthly results. And then it's just 96 to 97 percent, which is determined by the so-called autonomous growth, and the rest is credited to the EET. When we asked where there was any benefit from the inspection report, we were quite seriously answered, and perhaps truthfully, that the inspection report did not bring anything in these fields, because these are specific fields. And there's really no point in that inspection report. Why do we have him there? We have an open VAT Act, if the Ministry of Finance is right that there is no point in monitoring reports in these fields and it doesn't bring anything, so let's cancel it as an unnecessary bureaucratic measure that doesn't bring anything. I quote, these are not the words of the opposition, but the words of the Treasury staff from the seminar. Many colleagues and many colleagues could confirm that. It's really hard to talk when it's so loud. I'll talk louder. I would now slowly begin to present individual amendments. Firstly, I want to say that the position of civil democrats has not changed since the first EET proposal that came to the Chamber of Deputies years ago. In the long run, we consider this to be a useless bureaucratic instrument that brings nothing to the state budget, and this lack of impact analysis actually confirms the Ministry of Finance that we are right, it is not the other way around. X minus Y, then I choose Z, and the rest is EET. That's the whole elaborate methodology of the Ministry of Finance. On the other hand, whether or not the governments like it, many establishments have been closed down, especially in small villages. We warned about it, many don't care, many don't care, they can go to town, don't they? They're not that far away. Well, what does the third and fourth wave of EET bring? I'm going to ask a rhetorical question that I didn't know the answer to either, and I asked my coworkers to find the answer. Do you have any idea how many fields of activity the third and fourth wave is supposed to take place? I'm not going to try the secretary, she knows, but I'm asking the rest of us. More than 750. These are the fields where tax evasion is reportedly taking place, which is why they need to be combated through the EET. Then I'll quote dozens of absurd examples, but I'll say some first. Field social services. Today, many seniors pay cash. Quite logical. And if you approve a third and fourth wave in the form that it is, there are only two ways that it will continue to work. Either all seniors will have to pay cash-free for field social services, or the organizations that run them - and we're talking about a long-term lack of finance here, I think there's 2 billion missing, if I remember, or 2.1 billion, from the last debate in the Chamber of Deputies - so these organizations will have a new load and every worker, really everyone who provides field social services, will have to equip EET equipment to accept cash from, for example, a senior who is so used to pay for years. Is anyone seriously able to claim that tax evasion is taking place in the field of social welfare? That there are white horses, carousel scams, carousel shops? I think when we're debating social services, we're overreacting here - and now I think we're ahead of ourselves - who's going to show more respect and respect to the people who provide those social services, but at the same time, in another bill, we're saying, you're suspects, there may be tax evasion, so we're going to put EET there. Regardless of the clients, regardless of the social service providers. But by the time I get to the various fields of activity, some of them have already been discussed by my colleagues, I just want to sum up some of the basic points of our amendments. State gambling, receipt lottery. I don't think it's a shot. It doesn't seem normal to me if I read in public sources that there are people who send thousands of receipts every month. I don't know which one of you has thousands - I use plural on purpose - thousands of receipts every month, and they send it to some lottery. Madam Secretary is currently presenting proposals on how to increase gambling taxes, but at the same time here at EET gambling supports the state lottery. If you look at the number of clients, it's going down in the long run, and then when you look at what the Ministry of Finance still likes to publish, how many more receipts one person sent, I feel like this person isn't working, he's just walking around looking for receipts. Otherwise, there's no way he'd get that many receipts. Or maybe it's someone who sells and receipts that customers don't want, collects and sends to the lottery. But, of course, that doesn't fulfill the purpose that it should totally have. Our long-term debate on the limitation of EETs only for VAT payers was, I would say, a rare exception, perhaps the only, one of the rare cases where all opposition parties, apart from the three government consensus, proposed it, supported it by the vote, once again suggested it, once again we all support it and again the communists, socialists and the ANO movement want to fight VAT evasion on VAT payers who pay no VAT. There's no logic to that. We always hear that this will also benefit the income tax of individuals. Well, I don't see it in those numbers. I just don't see the benefits of EET in personal income taxes. I'm talking about the self-employed, not talking about taxes on personal income from dependent activities. [[17.50 hours]] A colleague, Mr Munzar, spoke of this, those are the very short deadlines if you make a mistake with the inspection report. Maybe one of you feels like five calendar days, that it's okay. But imagine the small companies that have either one - because mostly it's a lady - one or one accountant, or some small accounting firm does it externally. Basically, these people can't take a vacation after 25 months, because if God forbid they take two weeks of vacation, for which they have every right, even the employer has to let them, and what if there were a request at that time of five calendar days that one of those documents had the wrong number of the tax document, which could happen. If it doesn't answer within five calendar days, he won't deal with it, he'll be fined. There's even a risk of fines on those who didn't make that mistake when their partner did it, which, of course, is paired up. This is how you are obliged to reply to the Financial Office within five calendar days, e.g. Yes, we insist, we checked, and the tax document number is correct. Well, if the state had five calendar days to do its duty, it might have been balanced. But three tax years back may come to the tax office for routine control of income tax. I mean, three years after the tax returns were filed. So it's certainly not in days or months, but in years. And that the methodology is changing in the meantime, of course. This means you have to account for it last November, this March or June, and in two years' time, in three years' time, someone will come: well, that's different, you're unlucky, we'll measure your tax - and according to the recent recommendation of the Chief General Financial Directorate, the official will be rewarded for paying a higher tax. For the good of the Minister, I must say, to be fair, that, at her request, this internal instruction, or what to call it, has been cancelled and no longer used, and for the good of the current Head of the Financial Administration, it must be said that although she could, she had it in her mind as head of the Prague Financial Administration, so she never used it in her practice, for which she certainly deserves credit. However, hundreds of fees at other financial offices were paid for measuring the tax and finding the error. And I would want that - and not just me, not just the citizens' Democrats, but we should all want the state not to make a mistake. Not cheating, cheating, punishing, and even hard and hard. But a mistake can happen. I don't know, try writing down a document number that has ten or more characters. FA190036/1436. Then you double-cross, you write 1536, and when you have an accountant on vacation, you get a thousand tickets. They're not tax frauds, they're just people who made a mistake, and the state wants them to fix in an incredibly short time. Thus, this House document 2646 proposes the removal of NACE activities with effect from the third and fourth waves. And we have two choices together. Either the rapporteur here will publicly promise to vote on each one separately if he does not, so we will break the amendment into 760 amendments, we will take turns with colleagues here as an astronomical clock, and we will load one after another, not from the system, but from the paper. I think it's more efficient to make this deal, to say that each of them will be voted on separately, because everyone is different, even though they are very, very similar. And it won't give me a chance not to load some fields of activity into a microphone. And we can reach anywhere, and we can almost always hit each other, and we're gonna go over our heads, where tax fraud can happen. At the very top, I happen to have grain growing /except rice/, legumes and oil seeds. I don't really know how many examples we have from practice that there is tax fraud in the cultivation of cereals other than rice, pulses and oil seeds, and therefore this needs to be burdened by the EET and reported immediately that I have grown cereals, legumes or oil seeds. To be exact, it's NACE classification under code 01.11. We propose that this item be removed from the EET obligation, which means that it should be included in the Art. After point 8, a new point number 9 is inserted, including footnote 1 as follows: '9. In Section 12, at the end of paragraph 2, the dot is replaced by the comma and the following point (k) is added: from the activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 01.11, Note 1, the cultivation of cereals, leguminous vegetables and oil seeds.' [[except rice]] Note "Regulation No 1893/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 establishing the statistical classification of economic activities of NACE, Revision 2, and amending Council Regulation No 3037/90 and certain other EC Regulations on specific statistical areas, as amended'. The current points 9 to 31 are exceeded. This is the first proposal from the NACE removal block. And since statistics are a nice thing, so that we don't forget rice, we propose that we also remove rice growing from the EET obligation, because, as you have noticed, the previous point was the cultivation of cereals with the exception of rice, but rice has its own code - I don't know how it went - NACE code 01.12, note 1. Note is the same, I will not read it again, is a reference again to the regulation of the European Parliament and all those directives and the amendment of those directives and revision 1, revision 2 etc. But in order to be comprehensive and to prevent tax evasion especially in some months, this time in Slovakia rather than in our country, we have the cultivation of vegetables and melons, roots and tubers. So I say, I'm more of a watermelon shopper in Slovakia, it's not quite normal for us to buy it off the street, by the road. But it's for growing, it's not for sale. The sale is already burdened today, so we understand each other. Small sale of melons is burdened today, but already growing melons, roots, tubers and vegetables, which is introduced in NACE code 01.13, we propose to exempt EET from the obligation. If one of the government's colleagues disagrees, let them try to convince us that tax evasion occurs in the cultivation of melons, roots and tubers. President Faltýnek - I interpret nonverbal communication - knows such cases and will certainly share them with us. I do not know, because it is also regulated by the European Commission and the European Union, but we must also control EET sugar cane growing. NACE 01.14. So we already have four fields of activity - sugar cane, melons, tubers, roots, rice and cereals outside of rice. Let's move on. Tobacco growing, that's debatable, let's just say. Tobacco is not healthy, the government is proposing a rapid tax increase. There may be some tax evasion and smuggling going on here. Well, here's the tobacco growing thing we're gonna consider. It also has its NACE code, and it's 01.15. We must not forget - now I don't know, it's more of an agricultural committee colleague, but I started at random from the package - how many we have growing fibre plants, how many entrepreneurs are engaged in the cultivation of fibre plants, how many of them use cash payments, what was the total yield from the cultivation of fibre plants, e.g. last year and whether it makes sense. I don't think there will be many. But we have it under NACE code 01.16. Our suggestion is to release it. [[18.00 hours]] A really nice code is 0119 Growing other crops other than permanent. I think they're permanent crops. I get it, I figured logically that if they're different than permanent, they'd be non-sustainable. Once again, I don't know how many cash payments are being made here, that we have to burden the EET. Growing unsustainable crops. If the agricultural committee takes this up for discussion, I will be happy to discuss these specific NACEs and the agricultural committee meetings, or I will ask my colleagues from our club to inform me afterwards. Growing... [[There is an objection from the hall that there is a Member.]] Well, I have a colleague there, I'm sorry, but I have a colleague there on the agricultural committee. Don't we have any members of the agricultural committee? I'm gonna have to take a look at that. President Faltýnek says he's an expert on crops other than permanent crops, so I'll ask him directly. I don't... [[Mr Faltynek speaks outside the microphone to Mr Stanjure.]] That's not here, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry we're having this conversation right here without the Vice President, but I understand that the perm is more than one year old. [[A member of the Faltynek outside the microphone says it is, for example, a vine.]] You are mistaken, Mr Faltýnek, through the Vice-President, because the vine does not have other crops other than permanent crops on NACE 0119, but it has... [[A reminder from the O.R.]] Of course, it is an important crop, especially popular in Moravian regions. It's code 01.21, and that's grape growing. So it's a different story than other crops other than permanent. [[There's cannabis coming from the O.R.]] I don't know about cannabis. But be patient. Maybe we can get to cannabis. I was really impressed by our geographical widths that NACE 01.02 is the Growing of Tropical Fruit and Subtropical Fruit. According to our information in this field of activity, there are no tax evasions in the Czech Republic. The government and the Treasury believe it is, but we'd need some numbers to do it. How much in the field of tropical and subtropical fruit cultivation, what are the total revenues, how much VAT is paid and what is the estimate of tax evasion in the case of a grey economy in the case of tropical and subtropical fruit cultivation. I thought that tropical and subtropical fruits included citrus fruits, but statistics in the European Commission and the European Union put this surprisingly separately. NACE is 0123 and this is to apply to the cultivation of citrus fruits. Our findings are the same as with tropical and subtropical fruit that tax evasion simply does not occur there, and we find it unnecessary bureaucratic duty for those who grow either citrus fruit or tropical or subtropical fruit. Unlike other cultivation, which is more widespread in our regions, let's face it, growing core and stone fruit. I think we have regions where stone fruit really grows with great popularity and with great tradition and excellent results. I just don't know if we have to burden them with EETs. I quote, I'm not talking about selling, I'm talking about growing. The sale is, of course, already burdened with EET. And for the tapestry, so that those who grow pomegranate and pomegranate are not ripped off by their NACE, so NACE is 01.24. I could go on now. I'll skip about that much. [[He's browsing in his records.]] And let's see what it brings us. We're out of here. We propose to remove the production of fibrous cements from the EET obligation. In this area, too, we do not have enough relevant evidence to believe that EET is necessary for the production of fibrous cements. I don't really know if it's sold for cash or if it's made with fibrous cement. Now I don't quite know which committee we'd ask. We'll ask the Treasury. They're suggesting it, they should know. But to make it fair, it's called "we already have it EET, so give it to everyone," we've heard the appearances of some business associations. Some of them got a ministerial post for that support. Look how it works. In order to be fair, besides fibrous cement, the EET should also be burdened with the production of other concrete cement and plaster products. Maybe I'd ban the cast dwarfs altogether, Madam Secretary, don't you think? There wouldn't be cash or cashless payments. The secretary likes it, so I'm not gonna propose a ban on plaster dwarves. [[Secretary Schiller: Everyone laughs at them.]] Well, they're all laughing at them. I don't know, I'd laugh at those who buy it. Oh, well, so be it. Now I don't want to mess it up. [[He's browsing in his materials.]] Well, here's the oily fruit, and I'll give you the cement for it, thank you. Cutting, shaping and finishing stones. They're probably stonemasons. But there are very often cash payments. That's what I think, who knows small stonemaking, so he knows that there are very often cash payments. [[Secretary Schiller: The fences.]] I meant monuments, Madam Secretary means fences. Okay, but I don't know. It's NACE 2370 and I really don't have a personal experience with this NACE. I've never seen that on an invoice before. Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products J I don't know exactly, we didn't escalate that, even though we were debating it with our analyst experts, what J stands for. Still, it is difficult to imagine what it means to produce other non-metallic mineral products. Let's take a little turn. Does it seem normal to you that we only have this defined for the third and fourth wave of 770 activities? And if I want to do it, I have to find it at NACE - because then I have to show it - what I am, what cement I do. Because one had another NACE than the other, if I remember. I was talking about it about three minutes ago. I'm getting confused. How is it not to confuse those who normally want to do business, want to have a small business, and we burden them with this? Not just the EET, but the duty to know all of this and to report all of this. Production of pig iron, steel and ferro-alloys. Another of the designs, production of flat products except cold tape. Now, as a serious question, Madam Secretary. Why are cold tapes not loaded with EET and other flat products yes? We're fighting exceptions, aren't we? Is that what we call an equal business environment if the cold tapes don't have it? I don't think it's fair. That's why it's better to throw it all away. Then it doesn't apply to anyone. That's what I think is the right approach. Let's skip the piece again. We'll come back if you need more detailed information. I don't really have it here right now, but I don't know where it is... Imagine that EET must be loaded with the work of crochet. Madam Secretary, I really don't know if you're serious about this, that we have to load up the EET. It's already complicated, even for men, isn't it, what we're gonna say to each other? But this burden the EET? I know they say that when the forest is cut down, splinters fly. But imagine the little businessmen, the businessmen, and don't look at the woods, where they cut down, and there's splinters flying. The EET may also be burdened by the Chamber of Deputies, at least this hall. So I would intercede to apply NACE 35.30.4, which is the distribution of air-conditioned air. This area would certainly deserve to have some air-conditioned space. [[Minister Schiller: The state is liberated.]] The state is liberated, but that's not fair. So if we're getting air-conditioned by a private company, then the EET isn't burdened? [[Minister Schiller: She can't.]] He can't, okay. [[A note from the diaper.]] She should have an EET. Well, that's unfair. All right, so air-conditioned air will only be distributed by the state in the Czech Republic, and therefore we will get rid of EET in the field of activity 35.30.4 Distribution of air-conditioned air. [[18.10 hours]] The same will certainly apply to the cooling water distribution, I suppose, possibly to the ice production. But I don't know. That's often sports clubs. I don't know if ice rink preparation at the Winter Stadium is subject to NACE 35.30.7 ice production. We would need to clarify this before the third reading vote, because very often they are sports teams, but I don't know who would pay them cash for it. I see Mr. Juříček through the Vice-President, he is now a representative in Opava, Opava owns hockey clubs, a hockey stadium, perhaps a question for the Mayor of the YES movement, whether he is paying cash or cashless for making ice and how much is actually paid for it and who is actually making it. If it's technical services, which is also a city company, or HC Slezan, which is a private entity, and what it is with the ice. Perhaps we should approve the purchase of EETs in the budget so that, if we produce ice in Opava at the stadium, or those who produce it, so that they do not commit tax evasion, and that we - let's not forget - straighten the business environment. Because, especially when making ice, there are large tax evasions and unequal competition. At least that's how I understood the Ministry of Finance's proposal. Well, I don't think so, but the proposal clearly shows that. Water collection, 3600. Okay, let's leave the water and the ice. We can move on. Demolition. I don't know, Madam Secretary, how many demolitions are paid in cash, how many business entities we have that are doing according to NACE code 4311 demolitions. But we're suggesting that we do it in writing. For activities listed in the NACE classification under codes 4311 with note 1 of the demolition they removed from the EET obligation. Campgrounds and campgrounds. That's 96 percent of household consumption, if I recall correctly. But maybe it was more interesting - it seems to me that your attention is falling - that you enjoyed the agricultural products more. Unfortunately, the chairman of the agricultural committee is no longer here, but we can take some of these examples. I will then read it all in a detailed debate to make sure it is in the tapestry, because it is a rather complex amendment. NACE code 0143 breeding of horses and other equidae. That's all. I would have thought there was something else missing from other equidae, but it's breeding horses and other equidae. I know some of you are smiling, but it doesn't seem funny to me that we want to introduce EET duty everywhere. Maybe we can get back to the debate. You remember here, at least those who were here during the first EET discussion, that was the famous BDO study, which was secret at first, then blackened and then published, where estimates of the number of subjects involved in the individual EET waves. The third and fourth waves are estimated to involve the most business entities. The economic benefit of the disputed and control activity, and the Minister did not actually respond to this at first reading. So let's ask how the Financial Administration will control the implementation of the EET in NACE code 0141 dairy farming. I'd like to hear the model case of the Financial Administration coming to check on dairy payments. You're probably an IRS, virtually. The state, gets some dairy cattle. Maybe then we should sum up the small strategic stocks that the state has, don't we? Well, I don't know if he's supposed to have dairy. On these absurd examples, I'm trying to show you that the Ministry really overreacted. That it introduces EET into activities where it is not capable, logically it is not able to carry out any control activity. What, however, is able to do, come and see if there is a sign in the cowshed under the VAT Act, paragraph xy. In case you purchase dairy cattle for cash, the breeder is obliged to provide you with a receipt according to the EET and in the online system. In case there will be a blackout on the online system, it is obliged to introduce it within days. [[Nesroz.]] I'm sure the Secretary of State knows the arrangements. By the way, one of our amendments is for this obligation not to be with entrepreneurs. I think our citizens already know that they've seen those tables so many times, that they don't have to produce those tables, those who may have new EETs. It's a fact that a little bit, I'd have to find NACE with a code for making tables, because at that rate, I can't find it. There is a risk of a decline in sales if we remove this obligation from the law. Because otherwise the tables have to be renewed, they have to be legible. Imagine that when it's out there, so it's also sunny, it doesn't have to be readable, I have to renew it, and that's definitely good news for the table makers. Let's talk about the other amendments and the control. I'm going back to the agricultural commodities. I would like to ask the Minister or the rapporteur, he is such a fire defender of the EET, we have met in many TV debates, I think the rapporteur will confirm how the Financial Administration will control the use of EET in sugar cane growing. I really can't imagine. In our opinion, we cannot approve such a law in the form it is, because we impose obligations, knowingly, knowingly, in my opinion, if we do not get convincing answers, the state will knowingly resign to enforce those obligations and to control the fulfilment of those obligations, because this cannot be checked in my opinion, and yet we impose those obligations. ANO colleagues have submitted with us a change, a draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure, where each new law should contain a mandatory annex, a list of the obligations imposed on citizens, institutions, firms, school directors and the like, at the same time, as these institutions will enforce and what sanctions are at risk. Here we have not heard the answer to the question during a rather long debate at first reading. And I didn't intentionally use my favorite NACE at first reading today, and they're room painters. Because even there, I can't imagine the control of a financial office that will be effective. Moreover, unlike the government, we have fundamental trust in our entrepreneurs. The vast majority of entrepreneurs are honest, fulfilling their duties, working, feeding their families, paying taxes, fulfilling their other civic obligations. Yet with this bill proposal, all dirty suspects must develop online and prove online that they are not cheaters. This is, in my opinion, the biggest problem with the EET Act. I can ignore fines, deadlines, tables, obligations, the impossibility of effective control, no contribution to the Treasury, but the basic approach - you're all dirty suspects, you're developing online - is something I don't think belongs in the modern state. I will then read the other amendments in a detailed debate to give, where appropriate, the possibility of either ending the general debate or other colleagues. But the rapporteur wasn't here when I asked him, so I'm gonna repeat the question and ask the rapporteur, but I can't ask. [[18.20 hours]] We want each field of activity to be voted on separately. We have two options. So either we're going to do this as one amendment, and this is going to be printed here, and it's going to have A1 through A770. If by any chance you feel you want to vote en bloc on this, you'll tell us. Because first of all, in my opinion, en bloc cannot be voted. We are able to divide the file into 760 other files, each to give another proposing Member. I don't think it's necessary. I think all we have to do is check it out. The real reason we set it up like this, and it wasn't a very simple and completely short-lived activity, you must believe me, is that none of you should have had an excuse: Oh, I didn't know that this was voted on at EET too! I didn't know about that! Of course, if I'd known your actions were so, I wouldn't have voted for it, I'd have suggested an exception. [[unintelligible]] So here we will be able to vote on each field of activity individually. None of us can say that he didn't know there was a vote, for example. concerning the cultivation of rice or wholesale trade in pharmaceutical products. Or wholesale of clocks, watches and jewellery, or coin stamping, or the manufacture of office machinery, or the manufacture of communication equipment, the manufacture of locks and fittings, forging, pressing, stamping, rolling, pressing of metals, powder metallurgy, the manufacture of metal objects and other parts. Manufacture of castings of cast iron with crispy graphite. I'm really interested in that, because I confess, I'm trying to find out all the information in the law if they're available, but I'd like an explanation of what chips graphite is. I'm really admitting that publicly on a microphone that I don't know. I don't know what to imagine under it. And actually, I don't know if I should be pro or anti-load EET in the production of cast iron. For experts, I shall mention NACE 24.51.1. Or that we didn't know we were going to burden EET 15.12 manufacturing of plastic products for construction. Manufacture of other chemical products, production of bioliquy. We're talking about excise duty here. I'd see it more important here. Production of coke oven products. Manufacture of footwear from other materials or manufacture of footwear with leather uppers, or manufacture of footwear. Let's just look at the shoes, we have three NACEs. Or 15.12 NACE, the manufacture of satchels, saddlery and similar products. If we go back to a serious debate, I think that the proposals that have been made here, and there's no point in overcoming who was the first, who was the second, this material approach was pointing out absurdities. The impossibility of effective control of these obligations clearly shows that it is best not to approve this bill. I know there's already been a motion to dismiss, and of course I'll join our club. We're not going to compete who was the first or who said it louder. We have taken this seriously and on specific cases. And I believe that you will read it and you will find even more absurd cases where the EET is supposed to be in that amendment, in this House document 2646. I promise you that I will find 20 of the most absurd examples of EETs before a detailed debate or further reading. And I firmly believe that many of them, if we don't cancel it as a whole, that we won't burden many of them with EET. It doesn't make any sense, we won't be able to check it out, it won't bring any money. It will only increase costs, increase bureaucracy, discourage people from doing business, and it will have a negative impact on the Czech countryside and especially on those areas of business, especially those services that are already very popular today, and the offer is very small. We can have fun if there are shoe repair shops, watch repair shops, etc., how it all works. The negative experiences from the small villages, from the countryside with the EET from the first and second waves are over. I would hate to belittle the global numbers, that although 40 restaurants in the countryside have been destroyed, 45 new ones have been created in Prague, so we are plus 5, so what is it really about! We've got five restaurants in the sum. If we don't look into the regions, we won't ask our mayors, the mayors, where the problem is, we won't make the right decisions. And then let me just say a few words about another amendment that doesn't concern individual fields of activity, it concerns... the taxpayer's notification under a special regime; [[unintelligible]] It seems completely useless to us. The bill is a monthly periodicity. I think we voted on a quarterly budget committee, and we have prepared an amendment to do this once a year. If such an obligation is to arise, it will be once a year. For example, in a tax return, let it be in one bureaucratic activity. It has nothing to do with it, apparently, but I think it has something to do with it. A few weeks or months ago, I noted the programme proposal of the ANO movement copied from our electoral program - which we do not mind, we are happy to introduce a flat-rate tax on our ideas. [[unintelligible]] We understand it's not easy, the debate isn't easy, the government's already pushing it, it's already saying it won't be at 1. 1. 2020 which is clear, it can't be done. He says it's supposed to be at 1 7. 2020. Madam Secretary, I don't think it's a very happy idea to change direct taxes during the tax period. But at the same time, the Minister says: "Whoever chooses this regime, and now we don't figure out how it gets there, so they just pay taxes, social security, health insurance, and there's no control. " I like the principle, we have it in the voting program in 2017, called "Pay and do business without controls," and so I want to ask: If it is implemented - I think it will take place until our government, but let's be surprised if you prepare a good draft flat-rate tax - and at the same time the EET will pay, will there be no control? Is it a true statement to pay health insurance, social security, tax of CZK 500, or how much did you say a month, and there will be no control? Even for those who will be burdened by the EET? Well, I'm in. But then what's the law for? What's the law for? If the controls don't come! Or they will walk, and then they will claim it, or that political headline of marketers and piárists - and in that is certainly great - will not apply. And I'm really interested in that, Madam Secretary. If anyone who chooses that flat-rate tax ever in the future, and by any chance, EET would pass if they didn't go to the EET. Well, logically, they're not gonna be in the activities I was talking about, are they? Milk cattle is hard to control. But in general, if that's true. If so, then why are we introducing these obligations? After all, this is a simple question, and a clear answer should be given. Yes or no? Whoever has a flat-rate tax will not have control of the EET. And no other controls. Or maybe it just doesn't work. I don't think that's gonna work, but I'd like to make it clear that I don't give the government any false information. That's why it's best to get it straight. And I'd like to ask the secretary, she always says, I've already said everything about EET, the debate is repeating itself - so I don't think she's repeated herself from my performance today. I have pointed to the pointless fields of activity to which the EET is to be introduced, we should have a serious debate on this, and I would like to hear from the Minister, for example, the citrus fruits, tropical fruit, etc. But at the same time, and this is more serious, we should have a debate, but a really serious debate, and not vote on it until we agree on the methodology for calculating the alleged benefits of the EET. I'm sorry, I'm cutting off the alleged sentence so we don't assume the outcome. Until we agree on the methodology of calculating the contribution of EET to the state budget, respectively. public budgets, because VAT is a shared tax. That's absolutely crucial in the debate. I didn't take it with me today, but before my colleagues come to the detailed debate, I'm able to go to the office and come back and pull out the ANO promotional manual as there are 18 billion, and now I don't know, hundreds of schools and playgrounds and retirement homes. But the money isn't. And that reminds me of the government's investment plan. We were discussing written interpelations on the Gremium today, and I already asked the Prime Minister in writing in December about the investment plan for the 10 years, the 3.5 trillion investment money. We remember the bountiful trips of Babišův's first government to all the regions where they promised everything. Today we hear: we didn't promise anything, we were just mapping needs. At least the mapping if we could see it. There's no such thing yet. [[18.30 hours]] I will now specifically turn to my colleagues from the Czech Social Democratic Party. You have it in your hands, you had it in your hands when we voted on, for example, the removal of the smallest entrepreneurs from the EET, you even voted with us on the Committee on Budgets, which, as it turns out, is not important, it is important that we vote on the plenary, and I agree with that. You have the final decision on whether or not even the smallest entrepreneurs will be burdened with EET. Your chief coalition partner, who treats you so respectfully, for example, with a bank tax, has it in the program. I don't turn to them, their political opinion is clear, they're for EET. I respect that view, even though I deeply disagree with it. It's similar for colleagues from KSČM. For them, a businessman is a strange suspicious word, businessmen are strange suspicious people, so they're also for EETs, so we have 93 votes. Then we have six opposition parties, that's 92 votes - so far, EET supporters lead by one vote. And you have 15 votes. All we have to do is find 8, and we're a hundred-hundred and businessmen and businessmen have peace. If there aren't eight votes for our designs at your club, you'll decide. It may be simplified, but that's political logic. They have it in the program, they are, of course, against entrepreneurs, we all want to support small entrepreneurs not only in words but also in actions, and colleagues from the Czech side of the social democratic will decide that. It is specially requested that they read the amendment, so that they do not just laugh and say that it is a complete nonsense, someone here has proposed 760 votes. I think we'll find at least half of it if we look at it rationally, more than half of the disciplines in which it makes no sense, but none at all, except, and some of my previous speakers, the manufacturers of the devices, talked about it. Of course, it makes sense to them. But it doesn't make sense for everyone else, but it doesn't make sense for the state either. So I humbly ask you to reconsider. By the third reading we have relatively enough time, it won't be next week for you to take our arguments really seriously. We've done a lot of work with this, and we've done the job because we think it's worth it, and there's a chance that we're able to convince a mild majority in the Chamber of Deputies about our view of the EET. And in particular, it's based on experience. And you talk to them, too. I don't think you talk to businessmen like we talk to them. And when you ask them, those who don't have it, who want it, you hear the honest answer that they don't want it. And they're not tax frauds, that's the biggest argument foul in the EET debate that anyone who doesn't support EET supports tax evasion. That's just not true. I have to say no for us. It's just an argument foul. If, as many here say on the microphone, we know that one or the other is committing tax fraud, then we have other mechanisms for that, and only have the Financial Administration check them and let them measure what they have. But let's keep in mind those who do business, who don't have any money out of it, as everyone thinks, who actually want two simple things from us. And I think that if it was the government's economic policy, that would have been enough - that the state wouldn't be in the business and that the state wouldn't be in the way. That's enough, and with the EET the state just gets in the way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u41	Have a good evening. The next priority is the Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor. Until then, I'll read your apologies in case your performance goes long enough for me to even read them. Dr. Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes for this day from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons, Mrs. Tatjan Malá apologizes from 18 a.m. to 19 a.m. today. Mrs Lenka Dražilová apologises from 18:00 to the end of the day, and Mr Richter apologizes from 18:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad that this worked out because I was in charge of the meeting meeting and I wanted to join the general debate, which has now been done. My performance won't be long. Actually, I'm going to pick up a little bit more generally on what President Zbyněk Stanjura said here. I actually only have three comments, and I have two questions in these three comments, which I consider to be quite relevant. Note No 1. Let me say this, and don't take this the wrong way, but my feeling is that what we're dealing with today is actually a pure obsession. Even if I identify with this monstrous project, which is EET, I can't identify with it, with the whole project, but even if I can identify with it somehow, this extension, which is going to happen here in this step, this phase, this next circle of businessmen that EET is supposed to be assigned to, is already a political project of control over the economic activities of the population. Yes, that's it, it's a political project of control over the economic activities of the population, so here this project really turns into a clear obsession. And that's where my questions come from. What's the point, please, that the state has information about the billing, the launch of every single coffin into the burial pit? What's the point? What is the significance of a seamstress whose scope of business is to help its surroundings and whose revenues are well below the average income level in this Republic to charge such a lady for EET? What's the point? What's the point of a senior nurse who's bedridden charging an EET? Or do we rely on these people not to charge, that it cannot, that income will go unofficially? Or what's the point? So who are we really punishing here? Who do we want EET to end up with? What hypocrisy is the government doing here? These examples, which I'm giving here, actually make no sense. There is nothing else to explain, no rationality political, economic. It's really just an obsession. It's pure economic nonsense and it's a political obsession. Note No 2 and that's the question. Please note, and this is a good opportunity to realize this regrettable fact, to which another project has been devoted by the government coalition of the ANO and the ČSSD in the last five years to as much energy, as much time, as much effort, as much effort, and also how much it has cost. How much effort has been devoted to EET enforcement, EET repair and EET enforcement over and over again? férový answer - you know the answer: no other project such attention and such efforts have been devoted. There is nothing remotely close to how much energy, time, costs were devoted to the government coalition, and personally, Prime Minister Babiš, who is not here today, but we all know his contribution to the enforcement of the EET. The EET project, the project of total economic control over every economic activity and the smallest economic operators and the collection of data about everyone and everything. One could not come up with a better example of what this government, its Prime Minister and its people have devoted more political energy over the last five years than it has to this project. And they donated it to a project whose government officially reported economic benefits were reasonably challenged. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not what the opposition is saying, that is what the Supreme Audit Office says in its report last year, the report we proposed to discuss here in the Chamber of Deputies, which you rejected by the votes of the parties to the government coalition. However, the Supreme Audit Office's report last year says: Other effects of the introduction of a control report or EET contributed to the growth of tax collection, but their influence has not yet been crediblely quantified by the Ministry of Finance, as the Supreme Audit Office pointed out in its opinion on the draft State Final Account for 2017. [[18.40 hours]] This quote is a quote from the Supreme Audit Office. These are not the words of the political opposition. These are the words of this institution. Again, I say that the Supreme Audit Office notes that the increase in tax collections involved things such as EET control reports only to a lesser extent and that their influence was not crediblely quantified by the Ministry of Finance. So the economic benefits are at least questionable. That's clear from the Supreme Audit Office's statement. And with regard to the issues of freedom, protection, equality and safeguards against abuse, here I will lean on the opinion of an important group of constitutional lawyers. These constitutional lawyers have stated, for example, that there is a disadvantage for small businessmen compared to large entrepreneurs, and the most disadvantage is that small businessmen of older age are increasing the risk of misuse of information collected by the state and that the state is heading to a state where there will be an innumerable layer of hyperrich elite and a large layer of worse or better paid employees, to a state where most people are dependent on one or a few employers, large employers, and therefore it will not be a society that is fully free. I think that even these warnings by an influential group of constitutional lawyers cannot be taken lightly. So we've heard the expression of constitutional lawyers, we've heard through my mouth here, I've reminded you of what the Supreme Audit Office says about the impacts and economic benefits of the EET. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a project that this and the previous government - personally the Prime Minister and then the Minister of Finance - have devoted so much time, so much attention, so much energy, and in which, let us admit to them, in truth, they have made the most of things. And the third, last point, and the question again, is this: in what order of importance in state matters is the need to introduce an EET for piano teachers, a small-town seamstress or a nurse for old and sick people? In what order of importance? And I do not think that this is a question of party or a question of ideological or a question of opposition. It's not. I'll help myself with a report from the Supreme Audit Office, which you won't be able to say is probably some kind of right-wing think tank or something. It's an independent institution. And I want to tell you that in the 2018 report of the Supreme Audit Office, the term EET appears exactly twice. Once, when the Supreme Audit Office notes that the economic benefit was not calculated, and the second time there is EET in the explanatory notes of the brands. You just can't find any insistence on the introduction of a third and fourth EET wave. No confirmation of economic benefits. No confirmation of the impact on our finances. There's no pressure on the EET to be implemented. There's just no such thing. On the contrary, there is something in the Supreme Audit Office's report that either the government is not paying attention to or just sporadically speaking about it, or writes about it on Facebook, writes Facebook statuses, but there are no real results. Yes. What am I talking about here and what is this report from the Supreme Audit Office? For example, about four kilometers of highways last year, or about unstarted pension reform, or about bureaucracy, about the minimal ambitions of this government, about eating through economic growth, about zero results, about the growth of mandatorial spending, which will simply be unsustainable in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I merely quote from the report of the Supreme Audit Office, which gives the government a mirror of what it has achieved and what it is dedicated to. And on that basis, I say again: what you are proposing here is no longer a policy, it is not an economic measure, it is not a matter of some political opinion. That's a really clear obsession. We in the Civil Democratic Party have spent years trying to defend this obsession. We've had at least a few delays. And we will defend, and I mean here, we will defend the smallest to the last barricade and to the last minute even at this meeting. And I also promise from this place that when people give us confidence, these absurd cases that I've been talking about here, those absurd cases that the EET government wants to place on and on which it has already imposed them that we will simply abolish all these things. The state under our leadership will not poison the life of small businessmen. Yes, from here on out, he won't bother the life of small businessmen. Ladies and gentlemen, the state is supposed to be strictly concerned with controlling those large, multinational companies, oligarchs, those who actually have an impact on what may be negative in our economy. But the state is supposed to put its hands away from the economic activities of people who just wander around, people who help each other barely feed themselves and their families who don't complain. And I find it shameful for the state to nag such people, oversee them, collect information about them, and treat them as potential fraudsters, thieves, and criminals. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is not polite. That's not even responsible. This brings no solution whatsoever to what our society, what our Republic needs, and it annoys the lives of the honest, normal people to whom the government wants to make life more difficult again with this measure. In conclusion, let me repeat what I have already said here, and I will say it in one sentence. Once again, this is shameful, and it's obsession.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u43	Thank you. I will now look around to see if we have anyone else enrolled in the general debate. Mr. Ferjenčík, then. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I'm just pointing out that we're gonna be done at 7:00. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. I am afraid I may not be able to make it all because I have only managed to present two of my eight amendments to this press so far. Let's see where I can get. I started by freeing the burger because I think it's a big group of people selling it seasonally, and I don't think it has anything to do with EET. I continued with the proposal that I and my colleague, Mrs Kovářová, put forward in the matter of receipts so that the craftsmans could print the receipts themselves. And now I will try to introduce the other amendments I am making. I'm going to start with the joyous one, and Easter is coming, so I've prepared, a little inspired by the Christmas carp, I've prepared such a holiday package as an amendment to the EET. I propose to free the following things from the EET, namely the sale of Christmas trees and mistletoe. I think the moment Christmas trees are sold a few days a year, it's absurd for them to force the whole forest kindergarten sector - I don't mean the ones for the kids - to buy EET cash registers. As well as Christmas trees, mistletoe, I think it's quite appropriate to remove them from the EET. I think it's time for people to make out without state supervision. Furthermore, I would like to remove the sale of Easter babbles and beauties from the EET, because these are really things that are sold once a year for a few days to weeks. And they're really forcing people who, even for the joy of part of the year, are knitting and selling them on the markets, or they're coloring eggs and selling them to people in the markets, so that people can feed Easter on some professional product, so I think it's really pointless to involve EET. [[18.50 hours]] These Christmas trees are sold around 1.3 million pieces a year. I believe those vendors are already registering and admitting revenue under paragraph 97 today. I think it's very difficult to hide a forest nursery where Christmas trees are grown. I think it's a lot easier here to make control simply through tax returns, and I really don't understand why they're included in the EET as well as the beauties, the batters, the mistletoe. In my opinion, there is absolutely no reason for this whole sector of things sold very short-term at the time of the holiday to include in this state pier. This is our holiday package for the EET, which thus removes this area. Another important thing, I mentioned it in my opening words, and those are the deadlines. Today, in that law, the deadline is 30 days for a request for a special EET regime. I really don't think it's happy for the state to handle a trivial request where they verify the documents in advance, 30 days. I think it's completely inappropriate. It's gonna slow down the start-up businessman. Instead of going the way of setting up companies in one day, as we may have suggested, and really speeding up the state bureaucracy system in relation to entrepreneurs, this is a completely absurd 30-day deadline. A colleague named Stanjura mentioned five days, five days, which one has available to correct a poorly filed inspection report, those are the deadlines the state gives to entrepreneurs, and then gives himself thirty in relation to the processing of a simple request, where there really is nothing to examine. I suggest we put ten days there instead of 30 days. Personally, I would like it to be announced, however, officials from the Ministry have pointed out to me a possible problem that, for example, one would announce that he is entitled to a special regime and, consequently, it would turn out that he did not, and would be threatened with sanctions. I understand that this is on request, in relation to some legal certainty of entrepreneurs, but I think the 30-day period for the state is completely absurdly long. I suggest we cut to ten days. Ten days I derived, for example, from the fiction of delivery of recommended letters, it is a very commonly used period, ten days for officials instead of thirty days. Then a very related amendment, which concerns precisely this request. Today, the Office will ask for some specific information from an entrepreneur who will determine how the claim for special registration is made. And the problem is, at the same time, he's asking that the estimated revenue does not exceed CZK 600,000. I'll take it from here, I trust the Minister will keep her word that at the end of the third reading, she won't show that we're going back to $200,000, but I believe there'll be $600,000. I've already processed the proposal in two options. Once as an amendment to the whole press, once as an amendment to the amendment which has been passed by the Committee on Budgets. One of the things that is required of an entrepreneur in this request is that his estimated income from cash payments for a given year does not exceed CZK 600,000. It seems completely pointless to me. If a businessman thinks his income will exceed 600,000, he probably won't be asking for a special regime. He'd be crazy to ask for a special regime and then pass in the middle of the year. I don't think he's gonna do that. And on the contrary, if he thinks he's gonna fit in, then I don't understand why, for God's sake, an official should judge whether or not he thinks he's gonna fit in there. It could be a case where an entrepreneur charges cash so far and thinks: OK, I have an EET here, I want to stay in a special mode, so goes to cashless payments, but at the same time for part of the customers will want to be able to give them receipts. For example, when he's had 800 thousand sales for the past year, he's going to apply to the tax office to switch to a special regime, and the clerk is going to say, look, you've got 800,000 here last year, so you've got even more expected cash revenues this year because it's economic growth, so we're not going to give you that special regime. I find this favor completely disproportionate. Let's leave it to businessmen. Unfortunately, the special regime is now built extremely strictly and bureaucraticly, but for some people who will actually give units receipts for that period, it may make some sense, so why forbid them to participate just because an official said they didn't meet the condition of expected revenue. In my amendments, I propose to delete this condition. I think she's completely redundant. So I have already mentioned the proposal that I make with my colleague, Kovářová, so that entrepreneurs can print their own receipts. I therefore have two amendments left. The first is a proposal to cancel the third and fourth EET wave. I know that this proposal is made by Members of different parties in various forms. I was trying to propose a compromise. I know that - I believe - my colleague Jurečka suggested the complete abolition of the third and fourth waves. In response to the debate in the Committee on Budgets, when the issue of food sales in front of restaurants was much discussed, I suggested that the specifications for food services be deleted. That is, I suggest we cancel the third and fourth wave, and with the only exception - to include it in the first and second entire NACE 55 and 56 and therefore end the state where restaurant representatives today complain that their competition is not in the EET. I tried to comply with this objection. Personally, I would like to cancel the whole EET, but obviously there are no votes, but the moment the government tries to push through the power of the third and fourth waves, I think that's a mistake. A colleague named Stanjura listed a number of areas where it doesn't make any sense at all. I mentioned some areas, like the sale of beatings, where I think it's appropriate to make an exception immediately. I think it's pointless for craftsmen who work in homes. [[19.00 hours]] So I propose to cancel the third and fourth wave and, at the same time, I have tried to comply with the reservation of the restaurants' unions and thus include the entire NACE codes 55, 56 and the codes 45.1, 45.3, 45.4, 46 and 47. You're 45, 43 and 45.4 in business. So this is our alternative to the third and fourth wave. So we think that let all food vendors compete on equal terms, but let us not extend it to those craftsmen. I think I'll get to the next amendment I have left, I guess, next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-16-ps2017-028-01-004-004.u45	Well, we have 19 hours. I wanted to interrupt you somewhere smoothly, naturally, but you looked forward to it. So I'm interrupting the meeting, and I'll meet you tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning. Have a good evening.
