ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u1	206. Government bill amending certain tax laws in the context of raising public budget revenues / House print 509/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Budgets, Mr Milan Feranec, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 509/3, which was delivered on 27 September 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 509/4. I ask the appellants if they wish to speak before the debate begins. So please, the plaintiff is interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, we are at the third reading. Let me just briefly mention the Government's bill, which amends certain laws in connection with increasing public budget revenues. As I have already mentioned here, its basic objective is to increase the protection of citizens against addiction to addictive substances and gambling and to reduce the harmful social effects associated with these addictions, with the help of changes in taxation -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm going to interrupt you and ask my colleagues in the O.R. for some peace when they leave the O.R.! Today's meeting is under the law until 21 o'clock, so there's no rush. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The consumption of addictive substances has not only negative effects on the health of the Czech population, but also represents a high economic burden for public budgets and consumers themselves and their families. The amendment to the Law on excise duties increases the rate of excise duty on alcohol, tobacco products, raw tobacco and heated tobacco products. Another measure to limit harmful social impacts is the amendment to the Gaming Tax Act. As part of this amendment, there is an increase in the rate of gambling tax for some of the partial taxes on gambling. The amendment also includes taxation of income, which limits the current exemption of gambling prizes, and a change in the methodology for creating technical reserves for insurance companies for corporate tax purposes. Of the essential things, I would still like to mention the amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act, which concerns the taxation of landscape elements, particularly ties. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on 1 January 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u5	I, too, thank you and open the debate in which I have five applications at the moment. Mrs Kovářová is the first to sign in, Mrs Krutáková will be prepared. They're not present, so please, Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thus, during this Friday afternoon, this law is being introduced to us and it has once again been presented to us as an effort, namely the interest of the government in the health of our citizens and other citizens. I believe that in the context of the government's programming statement, which you all know, we can also assume that it is not a plan that was at the very beginning of this government, because there is really nothing to read about raising taxes, including those contained in this tax package. Then the government probably didn't think too much about our health and health of the citizens of the Czech Republic; it didn't consider it a major priority - and, behold, suddenly this is becoming a priority during the parliamentary term. Then we must ask how it is possible that this is in line with the fact that money is no longer being received on various proposals that the government has either pushed through or is about to push through. As it is possible that this is only on the agenda now that we see that, although we have had economic growth for a very long time, we have very low unemployment, we have been record-makers within the European Union for several months or even years, and hence tax collection, the levy is very high, so the government is still unable to reach a balanced budget and again proposes a budget deficit of 40 billion for next year. The answer then is that it is not so much about health as it is declared, but rather about being able to put holes in the budget. And I think that it is fair for the government to say those things as they are, and not to try to paint them pink - and this certainly does not have anything to do with today's dresses, Madam Secretary, which are pink - but to really be able to tell us those things the way they are. This means that we simply know that there is an increase in taxes here in order to increase the revenue of the state budget, so that this income can then be distributed in various ways again. And I'm starting to call it legal corruption for citizens because, for example, such discounts on fares for selected groups of citizens are not anything else. This is really something that only a group of people are supposed to be happy and helpful, but we know how it goes. We have already noted how this is advantageous for a number of carriers and how these discounts are signed in our budget. Of course, not only do we all know that from the media. As far as tax increases are concerned, the government did not say anything in its programming statement that it would want to reduce the tax burden, it is fair to say, but we must also bear in mind that it is not the first increase in taxes with which the ČSSD comes, YES, and in this case the government that is supported by the KSČM, because during the last parliamentary period VAT was already being dealt with here - and I will remind those who have already forgotten - which, at the time of Nečasův' government, which introduced pension reform, was temporarily increased by one percentage for a period of three years, the rates were changed at that time, and at the time that Sobotkův's government disrupted this reform in the last parliamentary term, it did not come with anything of its own, so it did it only partially. She canceled pension reform, but she left VAT, which she already liked to keep this rate, and at that moment she is responsible for increasing this tax. So this is by far not the first time that there has been an increase in taxes by the ANO government, ČSSD. Therefore, I would like to call on the Minister, but also the Minister of Health, who - I am sorry that when it comes to health, it is not even here, I consider it very strange, because it is mainly about protecting the population from the harmful effects of smoking, gambling and all these things with which I certainly do not ignore, these things are definitely harmful, but now it comes to me, it is very unusual that we are discussing such a thing here without the Minister's participation, and therefore I think it would be worth giving him the opportunity to come to our meetings. And I certainly don't want to delay this hearing, you know, in my speech, I will even make a procedural motion to end or interrupt the negotiations until the presence of Minister Vojtěch, because we certainly should not discuss this without this. [[Gong.]] I have already made my proposal, so I would like us to vote on interrupting this point in the presence of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u7	Yes, I'm registering the procedural proposal. Thank you for this speech. I've already gonged. There's a checkout request. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your cards again. For the Members who are coming - there has been a motion to interrupt the presence of the Minister, but the Minister is present, so I do not consider the proposal to be a vote at the moment. We will continue, and I beg Mr Ferjenčík, who is next in line. [[Noise in the hall.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I will split my speech in two. I have a personal appeal to the secretary for the first one. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you to apologize to the House and the Senate for your completely outrageous remarks about opposition and senatorial filth. I think that these completely inappropriate statements of yours, which have been completely cowardly hidden behind the quotes, have significantly disrupted the discussion of this point and we have all been able to do more useful things. But I understand colleagues who don't want to stand for this, because it is simply unacceptable for a government official to swear at the representatives of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. And the argument that you were just quoting from a letter to a supporter. It's like I'm quoting here what they're writing about you on Facebook, so it's also gonna be unpublished here. That's just a ridiculous excuse, undignified your position. So, Madam Secretary, please apologize.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u9	Thank you. Ambassador, will you continue?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u10	Yes, I will continue. [[- Please.]] So much for my introduction. And for today's hearing. pirát and I do not intend to delay the negotiation of this law in any way. We have made two very substantive amendments to the agenda. We think that the ČT reports should have been discussed in priority today because we were almost at the end of the debate. Unfortunately, the government coalition voted otherwise. That's your responsibility. I also think that we should discuss parenting sooner, because just thousands and hundreds of thousands of parents are waiting to see what the final solution will be. And that, in turn, is your responsibility, especially in this case of social democracy. Now, about the press. In general, we would be willing to seek agreement with you on raising excise taxes if, in turn, you would be willing to follow your own electoral program and reduce labour taxation in return. I'm afraid that's not happening. Taxation of work keeps growing. Of the average wage 2008 was 11 %, of the average wage 2018 was 13 %, of the two percentage points increase in labour taxation. The government is ignoring this problem. We have therefore tabled two amendments to this proposal, which address this problem, namely an increase in the taxpayer's discount of CZK 27 000 as a compromise, which is 2 000 for each worker per year, which would save on taxes. Similarly, a more ambitious proposal that would be more consistent with inflation and growth in real wages, that is CZK 5,000 per extra worker, that is, increasing the discount on the taxpayer and on the husband to CZK 300,000. These are our two basic amendments to this press. If you would at least be willing to accept a 27,000 discount on the taxpayer's proposal, we are willing to discuss the support of this law as a whole. Unfortunately, this has not yet been announced. Therefore, briefly to the biggest problems we see in this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u11	One. The way insurance companies are taxed is extremely unhappy, it is unfair and the Czech National Bank gives a negative opinion on this precisely because you also tax the reserves that the Czech National Bank itself orders insurance companies to hold. I just think that's a way that isn't in any way defensive. That's the first basic reservation. Second basic reservation - method of taxation of gambling. Raising rates for all forms of gambling except for the most harmful is simply per capita. Instead of solving the slot machines that still represent the biggest problem in the Czech Republic, you are ignoring everything else and you are ignoring the slot machines. We will therefore support the amendments which will lead to some settlement of these conditions. I don't see any reason to raise live games, we don't see any reason to raise odds. We can talk about how it should be set for lotteries due to the Sazka margin, but 35 per cent for lotteries and 35 per cent for slot machines, it is a complete mockery due to their different social harm. So much for gambling. There's just a need to rationalize it in some way. I hope that this House will succeed. Third important thing. A completely incomprehensible proposal to increase the deposit in the real estate register by CZK 1,000 to CZK 2,000. So when a man buys a land worth $5,000, he pays a $2,000 fee, that's totally crazy. The fact that there are some bureaucratic costs, so let's talk about how it is possible that the transfer of land for five thousand is the bureaucratic cost of a state that exceeds a thousand crowns, and let's not worry about it by simply raising the charges on a flat-rate basis to double that. Yesterday there was a huge debate about the fact that we must not increase licence fees for television, which are, I believe, CZK 135, I agree, let's not pick it up, but let's not pretend that it's okay to raise other fees for a thousand, especially if we have a tax on the acquisition of property of 4 percent. Then I'm glad that we were able to fix it so that we wouldn't cost people living, which means we reject the proposal to abolish the exemption of apartment buildings and the boiler rooms in them for paying the excise duty on gas. I am glad that there was a consensus that it was a mistake to propose this, and our amendment, which was identical to what was passed, was supported. I guess that's basic reservations. And then I would like to ask you for the material support of our, say, less important, but for some people of important amendments, this is to allow homemakers to brew beer under the same conditions as winemakers, we simply do not see the reason why beer and wine should not be equal, and to encourage the abolition of Section 59 for poker players so that Czech players can play poker as everyone in the European Union. That paragraph is just a complete mistake that I think got there by some bureaucratic mistake. We have a unique chance to make this right. Thank you. So much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u12	Thank you. I'll introduce you to a note. Between 13.30 and 14.30, Mr. Pávek apologizes to us for family reasons. And now, please, for Mr Munzar's debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to begin with a few remarks on this proposal in general, which aims to increase revenue to the state budget, and that is the only objective that this proposal has. I have promised my constituents that I will definitely not support any way of raising taxes, and this proposal goes directly against my promise, so let me perhaps be a little more extensive today in my argument and debate. Right at the beginning, before I start talking about this proposal and what it brings and the amendments that we have there - I was very surprised today by the Minister's speech. In view of the fact that yesterday during the discussion of the Czech Television reports, the representatives of the ANO movement from the budget committee argued the length of the talks of the various councillors of Czech Television during the discussion of the budget and during the discussion of the reports, so if you have noticed, I suspect that yesterday it was said, I do not remember that someone has given it like six minutes, twenty-one minutes, I have to say that for such important laws, which change not only taxes but also the environment in our country, and I will get to that, so the Minister has not given it for six minutes, the defense today, and I am very sorry. At the same time, I am terribly sorry that there is actually no debate here. We have long seen here on the example of this law that the system of discussion is conducted so that the Minister will perform, we will say ours here, we want to discuss, we want to argue, we want to hear counterarguments, and it always comes down to the fact that only at the end of the whole discussion will the Minister speak and sum up his comments on our speeches and de facto there is no discussion, it is just a summary of the comments. I am so sorry, and I think that the law deserves, or the laws that are in this package, much more attention and much more debate than is being discussed. When I tell you that this tax package has not been sufficiently implemented by the RIA, and we do not know the multiplier effects of the individual measures introduced by the government, there is only one thing that follows: the government focuses only on the budget's accounting side, only on school-based counting of revenue and expenditure, but does not evaluate the overall impact on the economy and does not assess the impacts on the business environment, and I am very sorry. I would like to start by quoting a few sentences to you, colleagues: "We are promoting a stable and predictable tax environment. We aim to ensure equal and fair conditions for work and business and we will not increase the tax burden. We honor the principle of fiscal neutrality." Do you know where these sentences come from, colleagues and colleagues? It's a quote from your government's programming statement, this coalition government. And what is the reality? We are presented with a draft law, the only motivation of which is to raise taxes, a government bill that amends certain tax laws in connection with increasing public budget revenues. That's the name of the proposal. And by this very name, the government itself admits the only incentive it has to submit this proposal, and that is precisely the increase in taxes. So what the government says and what it does are two different things. The credibility of the government's programming statement in this light can now be very successfully doubted. I'm the one who told the government that the government's statement is based on "no one's going to give you as much as we can promise you." And unfortunately, it shows up sooner than I thought. Unfortunately, the value of these words, which I have quoted here from the programming statement, is now less valuable than the paper on which they are written. In March of this year, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš told me that no taxes, no taxes the government will ever raise. Take a picture of yourself in the light of the discussion of these laws and this proposal today on the value of these words. The draft law, when the government didn't get enough to calculate the effects of regulation and RIA, shows that the government doesn't need it, it doesn't want it, it really only calculated a school-met's income in the state budget. And this approach also bears witness to something. By doing so, the government clearly shows not only to us but to the entire public that it has resigned from the real economic and fiscal governance of the state. State finances are managed only from an official and official point of view and from an accounting point of view, and this can never turn out well. This approach has come to the conclusion that the state budget is now prepared for an economic crisis worse than it was ten years ago. This is not just a statement, this follows from the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office on the State Final Account for 2018. And the proposal we are discussing today, the tax increase? This means that the government wants to raise another CZK 10 billion each year, in the following year even CZK 20 billion. koruna out of taxpayers' pockets. And it is an increase in taxes, which is the only objective: it is to seal the holes in the budget that you yourself have done with your governance and your approach to the budget and state finances. [[13.40 hours]] The state's management of state finances has deteriorated steadily over the last few years. Despite economic growth, the future is eating through deficit budgets, little investment is being made, and especially under your governments, the operating expenditure of the state is constantly growing for several years, at the expense of investment. Although the total budget is increasing, there is a long-term lack of money for regular funding... Every year, recurring spending, and therefore, the government is trying to glue it with extraordinary and one-off revenues. This year, for example, it was the dissolution of reserves from the National Property Fund at the beginning of the year. And according to the proposal in the tax package, the government wants to obtain, for example, 10 billion in one-off taxation of insurance reserves. It's a one-time income that won't happen again in the next few years. Yet the government wants to use him for recurring mandatorial expenses. It is the taxation of reserves, which are formed in particular to cover future claims of beneficiaries from insurance contracts. The government thus punishes responsible actions and the creation of reserves. And I think that this gives the market a signal that reserves are not to be created in the Czech Republic because they can be taxed at any time in the future. By doing so, ladies and gentlemen, you will only strengthen efforts to raise capital from the Czech Republic through dividends and not to create reserves. And I think our common goal should be the other way. At the same time, you enter the housing sector through the tax package, and again negatively. By design, you want to increase again the purchase of your own housing. And the hidden tax you want to raise is the name of the administrative fee for the deposit proposal and was mentioned by Mr Ferjenčík. You want to double that. You argue that inflation requires this fee to be raised. But the question is: has inflation been a combined hundred percent in the whole time it didn't rise? I think it is unfair in a situation where the government also withdraws non-Christian money from an absurd property acquisition tax and has long rejected our proposal to abolish this tax. This tax punishes those who want to get their own housing. Since 2016, the real estate acquisition tax has been paid by the buyer from the money that he has already taxed once. They have to pay the State 4 per cent of the price as tax, and they have to pay the administrative service fees of the State, which is precisely the deposit of documents into the cadastral. If the Ministry of Finance were willing and the Minister's willingness to abolish the real estate tax, then the discussion on the administrative costs of the change in ownership that each of these changes brings would be justified. Unfortunately, this discussion is not going on. There is only a one-sided discussion about the increase in fees, and at the same time there is a refusal to cancel the property acquisition tax. This is really just trying to get more money into the budget. At the same time, the Czech National Bank in the area of housing tightens the conditions of mortgages and the government puts forward, and we will discuss it here, a draft law which wants to increase the regulatory power of the Czech National Bank. Instead of supporting ownership housing, the government, in fact, does the opposite to everyone - each - in its step. At the same time, the tax package wants to abolish the gas tax exemption for domestic boiler rooms and thus increase costs for approximately 400,000 households. The entire tax package clearly shows that you have resigned from creating real fiscal policy and evaluating state action into the economy. You've narrowed it down to just one question - how much more money you can squeeze out of people. And this is also seen in the development of the compound tax quota, which was 32,6 % in 2015, and a few weeks ago you agreed on the government when you approved the outlook for the budget, so you approved that the compound tax quota, you assume that it will be more than 36 percent, which is a dramatic increase. And, as I said, there is a structural problem here, because much faster than capital spending, the operating expenditure of the state is increasing. Unfortunately, the non-economic management of state finances and only the accounting approach of the current Ministry's management lead our state to increasingly and more problems over the long term. And it's going to show up when we get the cooling off of the economy abroad, especially Germany, we're going to see on the state budget in 2020, that maybe some of the figures that we're going to be discussing here at the state budget approval are overvalued as far as income is concerned, and too optimistic about economic development, and we're going to see how the government will then want to stick holes in the budget for regular recurring spending through extraordinary income. I am terribly sorry that I have to be so critical, because I would rather the government submit balanced budgets, not to increase taxes and use the environment of economic growth to reduce taxes, to keep people in their purses, to make people more involved in economic growth, and not just by paying more for the state budget. I do not want to speak only negatively, but I also want to speak positively on some things, so let me explain here some of the amendments that my colleagues and I have on this tax package. I'm going to start with one that I think is quite important, is serious, and this is a proposal to increase the mandatory limit, virtually. the limit for the compulsory registration of value added tax. When you realize, one of the sensitive points of business and what discourages business is an increasing bureaucratic and administrative burden in business. And hand in hand with such a burden, the time and financial costs of the administration that such an entrepreneur must do for the state are increasing. The tax administration is then the largest carrier of this bureaucratic burden. The Czech tax system is one of the most complex in the European Union. This follows, for example, from the study of the consultancy BDO and the universities of German Paderborn and Munich. In this global comparison, the Czech Republic occupied up to 85th place in 143 analyzed countries. Within the European Union, Italy, Greece and Croatia had a worse outcome in this study. I don't think that's a very good card. According to the World Bank Doing Business study for 2019, the Czech Republic occupied up to 45th place in the tax payment indicator. If we convert it into hours, for example, this study showed how many hours such an entrepreneur or company must spend with its tax administration. For social security it is 75 hours per year, for income tax 53 hours per year and for VAT 102 hours per year. According to another study by PricewaterhouseCoopers in 2017, the time needed to fulfil tax obligations in the Czech Republic was the seventh highest within the European 28th. The total average time load in the Czech Republic was calculated at 230 hours. This is almost 58 hours more than the average load within the European 28-year-old. And why am I talking about this? One of the significant milestones for entrepreneurs is the moment when they exceed the turnover - turnover - for compulsory VAT registration, which is already 15 years at the level of CZK 1 million. This is the jump in administrative obligations needed for civil servants who use flat rates, and for them there is a need for tax records of payments received and issued from VAT payers, including the obligation to check reports for example. The original effort was to allow the smallest entrepreneurs the opportunity to do business without the obligation to register for VAT precisely so that the state would not burden these smallest ones with tax administration. Over the 15 years that this border has not moved, price levels have been increased, inflation has been inflation, and thanks to this inflation, the turnover of many exceeds that CZK 1 million and far more entrepreneurs fall under the VAT regime, which was not the original intention. I stress that this is the amount of turnover and not the profits of those entrepreneurs. With inflation, they may gain more on sales, but at the same time, their costs are also rising, and all of this shifts a turnover above the threshold of CZK 1 million, which today has a different de facto value than 15 years ago. According to data from the Tax Entities Register Financial Administration, for your information, increased the number of registered tax entities to VAT for those 15 years from 1. 5. 2004 from 42 971 to 115 673 entrepreneurs. This is more than a two-and-a-half-fold increase in the number of tax entities justified by the level of turnover over the period of validity of the current limit. [[13.50 hours]] For this reason, we have come up with a proposal, and I want to convince you of the need to raise the limit after all these years, the limit for mandatory VAT registration, and we propose 2 million crowns. The aim of our proposal is to reduce bureaucracy, which makes business in the Czech Republic difficult, and also the aim is to reduce the costs of entrepreneurs, which they must now spend, either explicitly or implicitly, financially or in time, in the processing of documents and in the regular completion of VAT forms and inspection reports. The limit of CZK 2 million. Why did we come up with a limit of 2 million crowns? There's a reason. Despite the longer discussion here, in this hall, we agreed together on the possibility of applying tax spending flat rates to CZK 2 million. And I think that the comparison of this boundary then with VAT has its logic. We will help entrepreneurs to save not only their money, which they have to pay their accountants, we will also save them the nerves associated with extremely short periods and brutal penalties resulting from the obligations relating to the inspection report. And above all, we'll save their time. Time is the key and most important means of production for the smallest. They spend time not only on the activity as such, for which they have income. They also spend a lot of time trying to get themselves jobs, jobs, etc., and that doesn't appear in their costs. The State is entitled by the tax administration to part of their means of production, because it requires them to spend this time for the State, to manage the administration associated with the payment of taxes. However, the interest of the state should not be that every entrepreneur is an entrepreneur during the day and at night an accountant must put together papers so that he does not have a problem with the financial office. By moving this border, we will save time not only for our entrepreneurs, and especially for our entrepreneurs, because their main value is not to fill the tax administration, but to be able to take care of themselves, to look for jobs, often to offer jobs to others, to offer their services, to contribute to the social system, to pay taxes and to contribute to the economic development of the Czech Republic. And we should respect them for this. Above all, we will appreciate their value when there is no such significant economic growth. Then we'll be happy for any man who can take care of himself. However, we believe that this will also save administrative costs on the part of the State linked to VAT collection. We believe, and we believe that by adopting this amendment and applying for a special measure derogating from the VAT Directive, the Government can comply with the declarations in the programming declaration, promising to take action, in quotation marks, with further steps towards the maximum reduction of the administrative burden for entrepreneurs. I must say that the proposal is at the same time in line, and the measure is in line with the EU's objectives for small businesses, as is for example. Sets out the Communication from the Commission entitled "green SMEs', small business act for Europe, where the Commission calls on Member States to take account of the specific conditions of small and medium-sized enterprises in lawmaking and thus simplify the existing regulatory environment. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, and please, this is important, yet the Ministry of Finance disagrees with this proposal! And that's for two reasons. And I want to dismantle both of them. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] The first reason, and allegedly the main reason, is that the VAT thresholds are subject to the common regulation of Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2016. And there the Czech Republic has a fixed exception of an equivalent of 35 thousand euros. I was hoping that this argument would be further discussed e.g. it will not appear on the Committee on Budgets, because we have already clearly shown the Ministry of Finance here how to negotiate this and successfully negotiate a change at European level. Even though our background as a political party is infinitely smaller than the background of the entire resort. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that whoever wants to look for ways. But whoever doesn't want to look for reasons. I mean, I...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u14	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you and ask the O.R. for some peace. We're getting a lot of noise. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I'll do it again. In addition, our proposal to increase the limit for the mandatory registration of VAT from one to 2 million crowns also contains delayed efficiency to increase the border by six months in order to obtain the consent of the EU institutions. We were inspired by this successful meeting of Slovenia, which requested an increase in the VAT limit on 30 July 2012 and 22 January 2013 a decision was given, a positive decision by the Council of Europe (?) authorising an increase in this limit for Slovenia. That's five months...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u16	Ambassador, I understand. My previous challenge seems to have missed its effect... Well, it could be a little quieter here by now. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u17	I would like to direct the attention of the Minister and the Ministry to the article. 395 of this Directive, which states: The Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, may authorise any Member State to introduce a special measure derogating from this Directive aimed at simplifying the procedure for the collection of tax or preventing certain types of tax evasion or avoidance. I understand that it is easier to say that something is not possible and to blame it on European legislation than to look for ways to promote and successfully negotiate the interest of the Czech Republic and its citizens and entrepreneurs. The decision to Slovenia itself also contains an interesting passage, and that is point 5 of this Decision, which I would like to quote without figures: the Commission, in its proposal for a directive amending the directive - these are the figures - in order to simplify the VAT obligations of 29 October 2004, has included provisions allowing Member States to determine the true values of annual turnover for VAT exemptions up to EUR 100 000 or equivalent in national currency with the possibility of updating this amount each year. The application submitted by Slovenia complies with that proposal. That means, ladies and gentlemen, I am actually convinced that if there was real interest in the government, this House, the Finance Minister, we could have no problem talking about raising this limit to CZK 2 million. Since the EU itself considers the application of the increased exemption threshold to be an appropriate measure to simplify the VAT system for small enterprises for this reason -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u18	Ambassador, I will interrupt you again and ask colleagues who are leaving the O.R. to do so as quietly as possible. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u19	Thank you. I will repeat this - that the EU itself considers this increase in the exemption threshold to be an appropriate measure to simplify the VAT system for small enterprises, on the grounds that the exemption of these undertakings from the many VAT-related obligations under the normal scheme would significantly reduce the burden on entrepreneurs. Therefore, similar derogations are allowed to other Member States, not only Slovenia. For example, Belgium, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Italy and Romania. So to argue, as the main argument against our proposal, to argue with the EU's right, Madam Secretary, to argue with the EU's right against our proposal, I do not consider it entirely fair and correct. From my point of view, this is really just a question of the will, taste and negotiating abilities of our representatives. I'm sorry the Treasury doesn't have that taste and will. And then we have the second argument, and that's the impact on the state budget. I have to say that we were dealing with this on the budget committee, and I asked for a methodology to calculate the impacts, because the initial estimate of the Ministry of Finance presented to me by the Budget Committee seemed quite exaggerated. Finally, the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, has demonstrated two ways of calculating. One is the impact of 3 to 5 billion CZK in the state budget, the other 3.5 to 7 billion directly in the state budget. But that's just the initial number. Our calculations intersect somewhere at the bottom of the Ministry of Finance's estimate. Moreover, given the nature of the business and the conditions already set for individual entrepreneurs, it can be assumed that some part of the voluntary VAT payments may remain. So the impact wouldn't be that high. [[14.00 hours]] However, even if we were to abstain from, say, the 3 to 4 billion crowns, then the total planned revenue for next year is about 2 to 3 tenths of the percentage of state budget revenue. The revenue of the state budget is expected to rise by 95 billion year on year, which is many times more than the direct impact of our proposal. And why do I say direct? I'm sorry the Treasury is only applying that short-term and purely accounting view. And I'll tell you next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-001-206.u20	All right, Mr. Ambassador. It is therefore 14 hours, and according to the situation in the hall it is clear that you are to interrupt your speech, and we are also interrupting the discussion of this point because after the second hour it is not possible to discuss laws at third reading. So let's stop discussing this point. Nor is it possible to open another third reading, and I will not open two second readings, because the Minister of the Interior is not present, which would be needed to discuss them. Therefore, given the situation in the hall and the established custom, I am interrupting today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at two o'clock, and we will continue this meeting on Tuesday at 14 o'clock, at which points 313 and 312 are included. This is a discussion of the position of the Chamber of Deputies on anti-Semitism and on the situation in health care. Thank you, have a nice weekend and I'll see you next week.
