ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-005-274.u1	274. Proposal for the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to broadcast forces and means of the Air Force of the Czech Republic into the airspace of the Slovak Republic and the acceptance of forces and means of the Air Force of the Slovak Republic in the airspace of the Czech Republic for the purpose of implementing the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on cooperation in the mutual protection of the airspace (smovie printing 449/ The material will again be presented by the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-005-274.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be a little bit longer here than with the statistics. As part of the cooperation between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic in the field of defence and security, the premieres of both states made a statement at a joint meeting of governments in 2015 declaring mutual interest in the cooperation of the air forces of the Czech and Slovak Republics in protecting the airspace of both states against threats of non-military nature. For this cooperation, fighter aircraft allocated to NATO's integrated air and missile defence system will be used in each state. On the Czech and Slovak side, two fighter aircraft are permanently earmarked for this purpose. The threat of a non-military nature is, for example, a hijacked civilian aircraft, which the hijackers intend to exploit as an instrument of terrorist attack. If the attack were led, for example, to a dam, a chemical factory, or a nuclear power plant, the consequences could be inconspicuous. Such threats are referred to as RENEGADE. The basic conditions of cooperation in the protection of Czech and Slovak airspace against threats of non-military nature were defined in the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on cooperation in mutual protection of airspace signed in Brussels on 15 February 2017. Since it was a so-called presidential treaty, its signature was followed by its discussion by the two chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic and after the approval of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and following ratification by the President, the Treaty entered into force on 1 December 2017. Since the implementation of the contract envisages the mutual transmission and acceptance of fighter aeroplanes to interfere with air threats, the agreement of the two chambers of Parliament should be obtained pursuant to Article 43 (2) of the Treaty. 3 Constitution of the Czech Republic. For this reason, this material has been processed and presented. In the material it is proposed that the Parliament of the Czech Republic agree to broadcast forces and means of the air force of the Czech Army in total up to 10 people into the airspace of the Slovak Republic, for the duration of the contract. Similarly, consent to the acceptance of Slovak forces and means in the airspace of the Czech Republic is formulated. The agreement thus conceived reflects the fact that both States have their own fighter aircraft. The transmission or acceptance of fighter aeroplanes to perform the tasks under the contract is therefore assumed only in the quite isolated cases where their own fighter aeroplanes cannot intervene. Let me give you an example for drawing. In 2012, we had a crash on the runway and couldn't take off or land our planes. That would be the case, if necessary, if we asked the Slovak Party for help and intervention against the non-military threat. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-005-274.u3	Thank you, Minister. The House Press has discussed the defense committee. The resolution is delivered as the House Press 449/1. The Committee rapporteur was Mr Krejza, who is excused, and Mr Radek Zlesák will take the role of rapporteur in this press. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-005-274.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me introduce you to the resolution of the Defence Committee of the 23rd meeting of 14 May 2019 on this point. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of Deputy Minister of Defence for the Management of the Economic Ing section. Pavel Beran, Chief of Staff of General Aleš Opata, Mr Krejza's intelligence report and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with 1. broadcasting of forces and means of the air force of the Czech Army in a total of ten persons into the airspace of the Slovak Republic for the purpose of implementing the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on cooperation in the mutual protection of the airspace, for the period of validity of this Treaty and without the deployment of such forces and means in the territory of the Slovak Republic; 2. the acceptance of forces and means of the air force of the Slovak Armed Forces in total up to 10 persons in the airspace of the Czech Republic for the purpose of implementing the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on cooperation in the mutual protection of the airspace, for the period of validity of this Treaty and without the deployment of such forces and means in the territory of the Czech Republic; II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-005-274.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am initiating a general debate in which there is no application. I am ending the general debate. There is also no interest in the final words after the general debate. I am opening a detailed debate. Detailed debate - it is now closed. The final word after a detailed debate is also not. Now there's a checkout request. At the same time, I'll call the MPs. I state that the necessary number of votes needs to be set, which is 101 in this case. I checked you all out. Please log in with your voting cards again. We've set up the necessaryvora. I'll introduce you to your apologies. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for reasons of employment, President Ivan Bartoš from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for reasons of employment, Minister Richard Brabec from 11.30 to 14.30 pm for urgent reasons of employment. The rapporteur made the motion for a resolution. Does anyone ask me to read it again? This is not the case, we can vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 272 registered 140 Members, for 140, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Initiating item discussion
