ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u1	23. Members Jana Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal, Ivo Vondrák, Helena Válková, Milan Pour, Petr Sadovskýý and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on Municipalities (General Establishment), as amended, Act No. 129/2000 Sb., on regions (regional establishment), as amended, and Act No. 131/2000 Sb., on the capital city of Prague, as amended /house print 273/ - second reading Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová is already at the rapporteur's table. The rapporteur, Ivan Bartoš, has also taken his place. And I will ask my colleague, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, for the opening word for second reading. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Members, we are in the second reading of the Act on Municipalities, the Regionals Act and the Act on the Capital City of Prague, which deals with the accumulation of remuneration. This proposal consists in the fact that if a Member, a senator or a member of the Government is also a vacant representative, that is to say, the Mayor, the Governor or the Deputy Secretary, he will receive only 0.4 times the vacancy. This House press was assigned to the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which recommended this House press to approve the Chamber of Deputies in the text submitted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u3	I thank the appellants' representative, and I note that, at first reading, we have ordered this press to be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 273/2. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Ivan Bartoš, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, representatives of the government, as my previous speaker Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová said, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development dealt with this press at its 14th meeting. Amendments have also been tabled, which have not been approved by the Committee. At its 14th meeting, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve 273 in the submitted text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate where we have three applications so far, Mr Pavel Jelínek... I'm sorry. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club. Mr President, before I give you the floor, I would like to say that Mr Ondřej Benešík was signed up with a point of fact, but it is not possible to make a factual point here, only after the debate has begun and the debate has been delivered. Mr President, you have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u6	Thank you for the floor. Now, I don't know if it's going to be on behalf of the club, but I want to say for myself that the proposal is hypocritical and has at least two fundamental errors that I don't think can be removed. The first is that the proposal is undoubtedly retroactive because it interferes with the current terms of office of properly elected representatives either at the level of cities and municipalities or at the level of the regions and changes the rules of the game for already elected representatives. So in a detailed debate, I will at least read a change of effectiveness if the majority is voting that the proposal wants it to be effective for the next term or for the current term. If we look at the edge, we're halfway through the county's term of office. The election's coming up soon. This election run is relentless. Sometime in October 2020, there will be regional elections, and if you approve such rules, it should apply only to newly elected representatives and, for example, each member of the statutory corps, whether the House or the Senate, would count on it before he accepted the candidacy. That seems right, logical. Of course, in the municipal elections, the delay is longer, because we're a few months after the municipal elections. Many of my colleagues have successfully led candidates, won elections, assembled majority coalitions and were elected. Why do I consider this proposal unsystemic? I think we can only approach this in two ways. Both are legitimate and both are also used abroad. The first is that we leave the current situation and decide only voters who know very well that when someone is running, either the mayor to the House or the Senate, or vice versa a senator or a Member to the council of the city or municipalities, they know very well about his existing office. And the second model, which is also legitimate, which is systemic, that we will ban the accumulation of these functions by law. I think that's legitimate, too. And there are countries where that applies. This means that it happened to the former Senator for the YES movement, for example, that when the mayor is elected a Member or a Senator, his office automatically ceases because everyone can run wherever he wants and vice versa. This is a technical debate and it is a legitimate proposal and it is for political debate. And the debate isn't black and white, both solutions have their pluses, and both solutions have their minuses. I'm sorry I'm talking more about worries or captains. I think the petitioner will understand me. There are many more mayors than the captains, who are only 13 plus the mayor of the capital, but they have an electoral cycle as well as mayors of cities and municipalities. [[12.00 hours]] And why do I consider this proposal hypocritical? I remember campaigning last time, e.g. To the House, when the government movement ANO said: we are fighting against the accumulation of functions, and if our captains are elected, they will choose. It's their opinion. I wouldn't force them to do that. I'm fine with the current situation, and I say the voter who knows about it decides. Then, for various reasons, perhaps good, perhaps worse, I do not want to judge, at least three captains decided to stay in the Chamber of Deputies. Again, I am not criticizing this because it is fully in accordance with the law and I would say that it is in accordance with the will of the voters. I don't see any problem with that. And how are we gonna get out of this when we said there wasn't gonna be any accumulation, and now we're really gonna have it? There has been an honorable exception, Mrs Jermanová has been elected and has passed her mandate and is engaged in the work of the governorship. I don't want to judge which approach is better or worse. And in my opinion, the YES movement, the petitioner and some others are looking for an alibi, how could they explain that the promise they made voluntarily, to which they were not pushed by the competition, at least not by the citizens' democrats, maybe other political forces, other political parties called them out of it, as they did out of it. So they come up with an idea where they say I'm against the accumulation of rewards. Not against the accumulation of functions. And it's directed at the envy. So they have at least less money, since the voters have already chosen them in both elections. Imagine, they're so good, they've been elected at least twice and gained the voter confidence twice. Some even three times, because some are also representatives of the region. And I think it only lasted for a moment that we had in Czech politics, which was released in the village, on the edge and in the legislature, but that is no longer true at the moment. That's why I think that proposal deserves to be rejected. And if we want to prevent the accumulation of functions, let's talk about it, let's stop it by law. I myself say that I do not know how to vote. I would certainly listen in detail to the arguments for and against, because on the one hand, the argument we hear is: The mayor, the governor is in Prague, can meet with ministers, negotiate good things for his region, for his community. I'm not questioning it. This argument is undoubtedly true. On the other hand, there is an argument that you do national politics in the House or in the Senate. You should deal with national interests, and often legitimately national interests pass by the interests of the community or the region. It's perfectly legitimate, it doesn't matter at all about political affiliation, so we understand that I'm not having this debate from a coalition versus an opposition, virtually. in my case, opposition to the coalition. I think that's true, too. So we have good reasons for it to be. And we have good reasons not to. And the legislature should decide whether to move the first ones and leave the existing model, or to move the view that is in several Western countries, that the second view is more important than the first one, and we will ban it by law. Once again, we would have to do this from the new term of office, either at regional or local level, so that those who are running know what they are going to do and what the rules of the game are, and they would be sure that nothing would change during their mandate. I remember the unfortunate proposal, I think from the Socialist workshop, at the time I was in municipal politics, when, in the middle of the parliamentary term, the legislators decided mostly that the city council could not be the director of the contribution organization set up by the city. Many have approached this, I would say, in a Chewy way, we in Opava too. In order to fulfil the letter of the law before the Constitutional Court decides - then I will get to it, as the Constitutional Court has decided - so, according to the law, we have filed a motion to dismiss those councillors. I begged them not to step down. And there was one vote for appeal in the D.A. This means that this view was shared by our opposition at the time. Subsequently, the Constitutional Court annulled this law with the argument that it was changing the rules of the game in the middle of the parliamentary term. And this proposal does the same thing. So if we want to ban the conspiracy of functions, let's do it by law, let's not touch the rewards. Moreover, there will be an absurd situation if the law passes in this version that the vacant mayor, who is also a Member or a Senator, will be paid less by law than the unreleased mayor or mayor or deputy mayor. That's ridiculous. I know it may be counterargument that the council can reduce the reward of a loose mayor or deputy mayor. But why would they do that once they've decided? They've already met once, decided whether the man is relaxed or not relaxed. And in the event of failure to release, they decided on the amount of remuneration, when the law really sets only the upper limit and it is not taxative as in the case of loosened ones. I think that's good reason for us not to pass the law. And if we want to talk seriously about avoiding accumulation of functions, we are prepared for this political debate with the fact that we are not saying in advance that we will be in favour or against. Because I'm saying the arguments need to be considered from both sides. But what's certain is that if we change the rules of the game, it has to be since the new term. Let us remember when I return to the House of Deputies when our predecessors decided in 2009 the constitutional law to shorten the term of office. I don't know how many of you sat here, I don't. Nevertheless, the Constitutional Court annulled it with the fact that the rules of the game had changed during the parliamentary term. Some of these Members filed a constitutional complaint that they had expectations of having a four-year term, and the Constitutional Court complied with them, even though the law was passed by a constitutional majority both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. I feel like we haven't discussed the retroactivity of changing the rules of the game at first reading yet. We were just focusing on the essence, whether it's right or wrong. So I wanted to bring this element into the debate. And I think the minimum, if we want to be polite to our colleagues and colleagues, is to postpone the effectiveness of the law after the end of their term of office. That's the minimum, since we already have the right to decide on the reward of the elected mayor, whether relaxed or unrelaxed, because we're smarter than the local council. And we in Prague, we in 200, or most 101 or 102 know much better whether the loose mayor should take 60 percent, 50 percent, or 40. Because we've decided, virtually. The petitioner and her colleagues have decided that they will dictate it. Plus, I'm sorry, there's a typical conflict of interest right here with the petitioner. That's why I'm representing our club so that you don't accuse my colleagues who were successful last year - I say, they won the election, they found the majority, they were elected by the council - so they won't be accused of being opposed because they defend their interests. But I think it's the same with the petitioner's wife. He's also defending his interests. It may be different from my colleagues that they have a different perspective, but it is also in conflict of interest, because it will be covered personally by the law. If the petitioner agrees to shift efficiency and gets a majority for it, I will apologize to her, because in that case, they are not defending their interest. And by the next election, if she was running, she'd already know what she's paying in advance. She and everyone else, don't make me personal. But because of the fact that the three captains of the ANO movement have an alibi for their constituents, we are not to adopt a new law!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u7	Thank you. Mr Benešík, Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová and President Michálek will now make factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said here. There's a word here that's hypocritical. There's a word here that's hypocritical. That's exactly what it is. All Members who have a different function may perform this function as a non-release when the amount of remuneration is fixed. That amount of reward could be zero. Then you can do it at the next council meeting! And don't make fools of us! You could've done it five years ago. You don't do that, you accumulate functions and we do clowns here, if we raise our salaries, or if our salaries jump by five or ten thousand, and a lot of you take another tens of thousands. And now you're making fools of us! When I was elected as mayor, I suggested to the nearest council that I wanted to be unrelaxed, I had the exact same competence, the exact same responsibility with salary zero. You can do it! And to make laws here that are absolutely useless because you can give up that reward, and that reward stays in the budget either the county or the community budget, the possibility is just there. Then do it! It's very simple, very primitive. I think we all get it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u9	[[Member Mračková Vildumetzová is ready at the speaker's desk.]] Please, you have the floor. I'm just reminding you, there's no preferential right for factual remarks. And second point. The appellant does not have priority rights, only in the rapporteur's debate. This means that the right of priority in the debate is given to those who have it permanently, not to the appellant. I'm sorry, you have a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura first. If I don't make it within a two-minute limit, I'll take another factual remark. He said that the proposal is hypocritical, and I believe that this proposal is fair and correct. If you are arguing with me here, and I did not expect anything else, through Mr Stanjur, from you, you must know the www.volby.cz pages, and you can see that if I was running for the Chamber of Deputies, I was running from an unelected position, and in no way did I assume that I would be elected to the Chamber of Deputies. I got 7,000 preferential votes, jumped the leader, and got a huge trust from my constituents to represent them here in the Chamber of Deputies. I have always criticized the accumulation of functions and the accumulation of rewards, and I will always criticize it. And above all, I will criticize the accumulation of rewards. I believe that this proposal is now finally bringing about the unification that has been mentioned here for a long time. If you're talking about banning the accumulation of functions, why don't you make the proposal? Why didn't you bring him here as an ogre until now? [[Nobody wants him!]] Well, you say it's one of the roads, and why no one brought it here! And I'd like that, Mr. Adamč, if you wouldn't yell. I have a point of fact here now. I see I've only got 13 seconds left, so I'm gonna log in to the next one so I can get yours in quotes - I think that's why the ODS has most of the MPs and mayors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u11	I really ask Members to express their views by volunteering and speaking out. At the same time, I call on all those who address Members from the speaker's desk to do so through the President. We will continue with the factual remarks. President Michálek is next, followed by President Stanjura, Members Benešík, Klaus, Plzák, Jurečka, Adamec and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would first respond to my colleague Stanjura. I wanted to remind you that the case of Melčák, quoted here, was primarily about the ad hoc suspension of the general rules by the Chamber of Deputies, so the constitutional law was not a material law. It wasn't primarily about being retroactive. This is, moreover, a case of false retroactivity, where the conditions of a lasting legal relationship change over its duration, which is generally constitutionally permissible. I just wanted to make one brief comment on a colleague Benešík, who recommended that we give up on those reward councils. I'm going to say that I suggested to the Embassies of hl. m. Prague during that short transitional period, so I can give up the reward to set me up with the council of zero. Unfortunately, the coalition, in which the people also sat, rejected it and subsequently I gave it as a gift to the city to use it to recover the damage from Pavel Bém, and unfortunately the coalition in which the people's people sat, refused it again. So the next time you teach a lesson in hypocrisy, I'd like to ask you if you could start with your people's party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u13	President Stanjura with a point of fact, after whom Mr Benešík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u14	I will respond to my previous speakers. On that part of President Michálek's speech, I agree with what he said, how he commented on my performance. We're in agreement. To the petitioner's office. I don't think we're listening to each other. I said that I do not envy colleagues and that, on the contrary, my colleagues, who are elected twice and repeatedly, are admired. Then I don't know, plaintiff, through the Vice-President, where you see a personal attack. Indeed, respect for all those who repeatedly receive electoral support, and no matter what political jersey. I really don't. But to return the political staff, it's a shame that as a long-time ODS member, you didn't make it with the same vehement. I've never heard you as a member of the ODS fight against the accumulation of rewards until now. [[A round of applause for Members of the ODS.]] We've been on the same side for a long time, we've fought a lot, that's true. I'm not saying we had a common opinion, but you never opened up the accumulation of bounties in the ODS. I am not motivated by my successful mayors, and I am proud of them, members and members of the Chamber of Deputies, who, despite the fact that many of their political opponents pointed to the accumulation of functions, which is true - but who decides about it? Voters. And I have respect for it. And I also have respect for the decision of the council, whether the Karlovy Vary Region or the Moravian-Silesian Region, or the city or the municipal, and I have no ambition to tell them how to reward their chosen. If you've been elected from an unchosen place, really sincere congratulations, it's not easy. Seven thousand votes in such a small region is a truly respectable result. I don't know what percentage it is, but I'd say it's definitely over ten percent. Sixteen percent. I didn't criticize that at all. I don't criticize the fact that you're both the governor and the MP at the same time. I don't. I'm just criticizing this particular proposal, the neoplasm I haven't heard of until then, the accumulation of rewards. I'm sorry about the accumulation of functions. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Mr. Chairman, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u15	Thank you. Mr Benešík, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It's not enough to criticize. It's so easy just to give up that salary. You can simply do that today, tomorrow, at the council meeting, and I am sure that your coalition partners will support you through the President. It's simple, it can be done, it can be negotiated. You'll have the same competence, the same background, the same responsibility, you can for the county - and I'm not criticizing it, on the contrary, I think that often accumulation of functions is very beneficial for the community, for the city, for the county, you just give up that salary. This can be done very quickly. And a colleague of Michálek. I don't really run the people's side. Not in Prague, not elsewhere. The damned folklore did not allow you to give up the reward through the President. Like I don't know. I think we could forgive ourselves for that kind of innuendo.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u17	Thank you. Mr Klaus, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Plzák, followed by Mr Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u18	I've been here for the last two days on the Sports Act, and now, I'm here slowly as an attorney for the chairman of our Stanjura MP's club, but I have to say it. He, through Mr President, accused you of hypocrisy. And the hypocrisy is that you promised before the election that you would give up those functions, that you would not accumulate them. Now you don't want to give them up, and you're inventing some kind of special law by way of a detour, to sort of mediaize it, because Chairman Babiš is probably pushing you, but you're having a hard time in this county, so you can sit here. That's what hypocrisy is all about. And then there's hypocrisy on the other side that you'll get out and say, but I ran from a completely impossible place, because I probably didn't want to go to the House at all. That's how it works. Well, if you didn't want to, then come and give up your mandate, and it's settled, isn't it? It's obvious! So it's two hypocrisy squared! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u19	Thank you. Mr. Pilsner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u20	Good morning, colleagues. In advance, I announce that I am not a representative of either the region or the municipality or anything, I am merely carrying out the parliamentary mandate, but I simply lack logic in this proposal. Don't be mad at me, colleague. We will be discussing, in the future, whether a Member who does not attend meetings will have a reduced salary. I would understand if there is any doubt that a Member or another such does not exercise the capacity of a vacant representative, as he is supposed to go this way, that he will simply reduce his salary for his absence. But if he's doing it fully, why should we take that money away from him? I see some logic in that. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] And to my fellow pirate party, I'd like to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u21	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. You do not have the conditions to apply your opinion in a factual note. I'm asking everyone to stay calm so you can continue. I'll give you more time, of course. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I don't think it's interesting what I'm saying. And I would like to say to my colleagues from the pirate party that their colleague Hřib, the mayor, also took part in the board on Monday and continues to receive salary for this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u23	Thank you. Mr Jurečka with a point of fact, after which Mr Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u24	Thank you. I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Mrs Vildumetzová, through Mr President. It happened to me, too. I ran twice from last place. And I don't recognize the sign that something is invulnerable. We're just running once, if I'm the 50th or the 55th, the voter can decide. And every place is potentially optional. So we don't argue with the public. In both cases, municipal elections and regional elections, from the last place with a profit of about 24 percent of the preferential votes from the entire candidate I succeeded and I was circled. In that case, I gave it up immediately. In the second case, when I was a regional representative, when I joined the government, I gave it up too. I did not accumulate the function because it was not possible to perform it responsibly at the same time. Today I am in this situation that I am a Member and I am also a representative of the Olomouc Region and it is possible to give up these things. For Mr Michálek, through Mr President, all I have to do is not fill out an account number on the form. I don't have to beg those coalition partners if they let me give up my salary. There's just nowhere to send that salary. Simple solution. I just did it on one of the board last week. And speaking of that kind of thing. It's really hypocritical. If I promise before the election and say I won't sit on two chairs, I'll do it after the election, too, if I have any internal honor. You can give up your salary. You can do it now. You don't have to deal with it by law. And then, if you want to deal with these things, for example, as a representative, I renounced from the beginning that I did not receive any transport allowance, because I already have that contribution within the framework of being a Member. How many of you Members and Regional Representatives here have you renounced your contribution to transport from the region? [[Several Members report.]] That, too, is for discussion. Yes, you're applying here. Thank you for that. Some of you are. But you're not many of you, and you're quiet about it. So if you want to solve everything, then solve it like this and don't open just one part of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u25	Thank you. Let me just introduce you to the order of actual remarks. Mr Adamec, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Members Birke, Ferjenčík, Michálek, Výborný and Klaus. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to begin by apologizing to Mrs Vildumetzová for being on her - Mračková, Vildumetzová, well, I am a conservative politician. I apologize once again to Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová for yelling at her, but I couldn't stand it anymore, I confess. I think that, like all of us here, who have the accumulation of functions, we understand the problem, so I'd say that actually... I would accept it if the bill passed here, that there can be no accumulation of functions. It's got something in it. A colleague of Stanjura's was talking about it. However, it also has a lot against. And if you look at people's interest today to run in municipalities, towns to municipal councils, you can see that just those people who have that interest, so many people, and the quality of them, are as few as saffron as they say. I feel like you're gonna be punished for every good deed. So you won the election, by chance everyone knew you were an MP, you didn't cover up being an MP, so we have to punish ourselves because it's not normal to be an MP, a mayor, a regional representative. For God's sake, I'm still a member of some supervisory board. This is not normal in the Czech Republic. I don't know. Well, you get paid for success, I get it. Anyway, I'll tell you my experience, because I'm a champion. I became a senator in 2002, when I was a relaxed mayor, and at that moment I told my constituents, and I also ran for the Senate, that I would not only be disindulged in the city, but that I would not take any money, and I endured it for six years. I can tell you that it's kind of hard work and hard work, because, of course, there's a lot more responsibilities in the accumulation of functions. It's not like that now. The deputies as unreleased simply approve me of a reward of 60 percent and the illogicalness of 40... [[Attention, time's up.]] I'm sorry, I'm gonna sign up because I don't feel like I'm gonna get into a proper application anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u27	Yes, thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and her factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u28	Thank you for the floor. I don't know what to start from, because it's practically all about me, because I'm not the only promoter of the law. There's a lot of other submitters in there. I would like to comment at the moment on this, through Mr President on Mr Stanjura, on the fact that I am dealing with some of my problems here. Mr. Stanjur, I am the first historically unreleased governor to receive 40 percent of the reward entirely in accordance with this bill that is being submitted. The problem is, if I'm an unreleased chieftain, maybe I'm not entitled to a vacation. It wouldn't even matter, but of course it does if I'm not at the town hall or I'm not on that edge and I'm really going on that vacation, so I have to - I can't say that I'm on vacation because I'm not entitled to it as an unrelieved governor. If you're an unlearned commander, you don't have, of course, it doesn't even count until you retire. There are, of course, other things to do with it. And what's important is that the deputy mayor has to decide the deputy mayor's office about the unreleased chieftain and the mayor. Whereas this proposal, which is tabled here, if anyone becomes a Member, will be taken as the governor, the mayor, Vice-Mayor from the first day 0.4 times. And if he gives up that function, he'll get it back 100 percent. And you know, if the law can be passed, then we'll see who's doing it for the money and who's doing it for those people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u29	Thank you. Mr Birke, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u30	That's right. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I heard from the machine guns that Birke's doing it for the money... No, let me just get my point. You know, self-respect stinks. But let me just tell you a short story. I'm exactly the mayor with two salaries. He shall have the salary of a Member as an ordinary Member. I have no office in the Chamber of Deputies. And I have a full mayor's salary. In 2010, I was first elected mayor. I've been saying for four years that I'm going to perform two functions for two salaries. Yes, Mr. Colleague, I'll do it. I got 46 percent and 80 percent of the preferences. For the next four years, an extremely difficult period for social democracy in the context of municipal elections, I once again said that I would run again and again take two salaries. I got 33 percent and 80 percent of the preferences. The only voters could decide whether or not to vote for me. And they elected me. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u31	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to the reservation that we should address the accumulation of functions as such and possibly prohibit the incompatibility of any functions and not address it through finance. The pirates have initiated this law. We have put forward the originally stricter version, which unfortunately the House has returned to recast. And the basic idea why we should regulate the wage cycle is to simultaneously reduce the incentive to exercise the cumulation while at the same time not blocking the whole transfer of good practice between the institutions. It seemed to us an acceptable compromise that has a chance in this House. And it definitely feels like moving in the right direction. Come in. Pirates don't accumulate loose functions. There are no pirate politicians who would have a continuance of two loose positions. So here I am rejecting the accusation of hypocrisy. We really advocate this as a principle in politics that we advocate in general, even though our mayor in Mariánské Lázně gave up his position and we were then dragged in the media that we have three mayors during the term. Still, we won the election in Mariánky even after four years. But we just don't accumulate it, but we think it should be a general principle. [[12.30 hours]] Come in. Voters decide who gets the votes, but they don't have the ability to directly influence salaries. And I think that the voters didn't want Mr. Čunek to just take more money than the President, and that even his voters would disagree that he was taking more money than the President, and that his salary was financed not only by the people of Vsetín, but by people from all over the Republic. People from all over the Republic at a time when Mr. Čunek had three positions and took more than the President, they had to contribute to that. It just doesn't seem right to us, and we're trying to limit it by some percentage that has been agreed here as a compromise. Last comment on Mr. Hřib -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u33	Time, Mr. Ambassador, is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u34	On March 12th, Mr. Hřib's understudy will be elected so that Mr. Hřib can end. February 12th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-008-023.u35	Thank you. On the basis of the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, I am now interrupting this point. We will proceed to discuss the points that we have firmly placed for 12.30 hours. The first of these points is
