ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 218/2003 Coll., on the responsibility of young people for unlawful acts and on the judiciary in matters of youth and on the amendment of certain laws (the Law on the judiciary in matters of youth), as amended, Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, and Act No. 293/1993 Coll., on the performance of the binding, as amended /house print 299/ - second reading I thank my colleague Válková Warová, who is the rapporteur, for taking the position at the rapporteur's table. At this point I can give the floor to the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Very briefly, I will remind you what the content of this proposal is. This is the implementation of the requirements of the European Union directive on procedural safeguards for children who are suspected or accused persons in criminal proceedings, where the implementation period is 11 June of this year. Three laws are proposed to be amended. This gross consists of the Youth Responsibility Act for Illegal Crimes, which means the Youth Justice Act. Other changes are then more marginally affected by the criminal code and the law on the enforcement of custody. From the changes proposed, I can mention, in particular, the extension of information that is provided to a youth acting in the prescribed procedural position within the various stages of criminal proceedings; the establishment of a rule whereby a person who is not certain if he has reached 18 years of age is considered to be a minor until proven otherwise; the introduction of the right of a minor to propose his own guardian; the extension of the necessary defence granted to a minor for a period beyond the age of 18 years, theoretically up to 21 years, if necessary in the light of circumstances, in particular the maturity and vulnerability of the person concerned; anchoring the preference of taking an audiovisual record during youth interrogation and extending the youth's separate placement in adult custody to cases where he exceeds 18 years of age at the time he is in custody. The government proposal ensures full implementation of the European directive, and I am very much asking for its support and release until third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. I note that, at first reading, we have ordered the proposal to discuss the committee of constitutional law as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Security Committee. The Committees resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 299/1 and 299/2. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who is the rapporteur of the Security Committee, will be prepared after the speech of the rapporteur of the constitutional committee of Mrs Helena Válková. Madam rapporteur, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, as has been said here, our good regulation of the Youth Justice Act by this amendment, if we approve it, will be improved in ways that the Minister has described very precisely and specifically here, so I will not go back to that. Perhaps only to the controversial issues that we have dealt with on the Constitutional Legal Committee. As a guarantee committee, of course, we dealt with this amendment, and there was the biggest issue concerning determining the age of a child for whom it is not certain whether it reached the age of 15 years when the proposed amendment considered such a child under 15 to be a child under 15 years of age even if it was not clear, certain and had to be examined during further examination or examination, as it really is with that age, because it lacked evidence, and the amendment assumed that in that case the child would automatically be considered under 15 years of age. As you know, in the Czech Republic the limit of criminal liability is just set for those 15 years, so it is about whether it falls into the category of juveniles, also privileged categories of perpetrators, or suspects in criminal activity, however already criminally responsible, or into the category of criminally irresponsible children under the age of 15. The outcome of the discussion is already the contents of the resolution of the constitutional committee of the 36th meeting, which took place on 20 February 2019, when we finally agreed that, with regard to the question of children, which is not clear whether they are 15 years or 14 years or 16 years, after the debate that went away there and which may also be discussed by Mr Ondráček, the majority decided to dismiss this point. So the point at which it is proposed that, in such a case, the child be automatically considered to be under 15 years of age would be deleted from the amendment. This is the first conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Committee that it will not automatically be considered under 15 years of age and that it will always be collected in any particular case how old it is, but there will not be the premise that it is considered under 15 years of age if the matrical age is not certain. So that's the first conclusion. The second conclusion that we have reached within the Constitutional Legal Committee is quite legislatively technical that, in view of how the effectiveness originally sounded, which would certainly not be feasible due to the extension of the legislative process, we propose to change the effectiveness relatively vaguely, or that the law would take effect on the first day of the first calendar month following the date of its publication, or the standard relatively vague efficiency, which I think is very appropriate here. In addition, there was one more, only one amendment put into the system by a group of Members, Mr Maříková, Mr Okamura, Mr Fiala, Mr Hrnčíř, Mr Koten, Mr Kohoutek, Mr Jelínek, Mr Levová, Mr Jarošová and others, who, only if we are to discuss this later, will clarify the proposed text, which the Minister of Justice has also just spoken about, where, in cases where necessary, the questioning of a youthful audiovisual record is being taken, and she specifies the wording in a very appropriate way when the proposed text of the amendment explicitly states that, given the circumstances of the case and the person of the youth is appropriate. That wasn't there. So the circumstances and the case and the teenage person are inserted there, and, if technically possible, a visual and audio record of the juvenile's interrogation is made. So once again, it's an improvement in the proposed amendment. Otherwise, the debate is not such that we have to describe it in detail here, which took place on the Constitutional Legal Committee, and we propose, of course, to approve the draft amendment, taking into account the changes that are embodied in resolution 112 of 20 February 2019.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u5	I thank the rapporteur, and before I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Security Committee on Zdeněk Ondráček, allow me to repeat once again the communication of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, that is, that in the galleries of the Chamber, there are signatures prepared for the misfortune that took place in Paris, when the Gothic Jewel and the significant pinnacle of Paris, Notre Dame Cathedral, caught a devastating fire. I remind you that the signatures are ready to be signed only within 13 hours, so that we can hand over the accompanying letter to the President of the National Assembly of France to Richard Ferrand as soon as possible after the 13th hour. The letter will therefore be transmitted through the Embassy of the French Republic here in Prague. So much for repeating the message. And so I will now ask the rapporteur of the Security Committee Zdeněk Ondráček to present his intelligence report and inform us of the discussion of the Security Committee. I'll give you my word when it's a little quiet in here. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to transfer the debate to the lobby. I don't want to name it. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, let me introduce you to resolution No. 85 to the Security Committee of the 20th meeting, which took place on 21 March 2019, when the Security Committee of the House Press No. 299 After the opening speech by the Minister of Justice, Dr Kněžínek, following the report by the Vice-President of the Committee, Dr Ondráček and the general debate, he finished his work on the resolution, when he first recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the proposal, and second, he instructs the Chair of the Committee to present the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and third, he empowers me as committee rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which I have just done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate... [[Voices from the right.]] Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate and this is where Mr Marek Benda will be the first to speak. However, with a factual remark to the rapporteur's speech, she may not speak until after the first speech from the debate, otherwise I cannot do so under the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Marek Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u8	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I will only briefly try to say that yes, I understand that the Ministry of Justice can do nothing but submit to us again another implementation of the European standard. At the same time, I would say that I think that this is one of those European standards, which are pointless, where, of course, we should have worked much earlier not to be committed and committed to something like this. But when you look at the wording, it feels like they're actually passing up on common sense. [[12.00 hours]] In part, we criticized this at first reading. But the idea of who I always have of everything over and over again to instruct, who I should tell, who are his rights, which in the end in the Czech bureaucratic society is dealt with in the only way, that is, by giving everyone to sign at the beginning of an interrogation, anything, four to five papers, which, of course, none of us reads and through which gives up a whole series of rights and assures public authority that he is understood to have the right to choose an attorney, has the right to choose an interpreter, has the right, has the right, has the right, has the right. They won't know any of this, they're just useless paperwork. And that, unfortunately, is what is coming to us through this law from those European directives. The second part, which the rapporteur has already spoken about in part, is perhaps even more dubious and questionable, and I am pleased that we have agreed, at least on the part of the Constitutional Legal Committee, that we will really implement only what we must implement, and we will not give ourselves any ideas. The idea that there are people in our society that I can't tell how old they are, I think they're completely naive. Unfortunately, all these ideas arose in the European Union only in a situation where tens to hundreds of thousands of people from other territories appeared here, which very often claimed that their age did not correspond to the age at all to which they looked biologically and which was difficult to determine because they did not have any evidence on them. That is why we are beginning to adopt various strange provisions into European laws, such as that it is considered that the youth is also the one who completed the fifteenth year of age at the time of the wrongdoing, but for whom it is not possible without reasonable doubt to determine that at the time of the error he exceeded the eighteenth year of age. To me, it really seems like a provision that we never needed to do anything, frankly, we have it in no law other than criminal law. I understand that we must accept it, but I do not understand what the negotiating representatives of the Czech Republic are doing when, in Brussels and in others, they act and try to agree on some final wording of the directive when there are such sentences that are completely contrary to common sense and what we are used to in the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Justice, or the Government, originally inserted a passage into the proposal, which should require a similar right for persons aged 15 or over that it will be difficult to examine and without reasonable doubt it will be interpreted that they are under the age of 15. Finally, we have decided on the Constitutional Legal Committee that we will release this provision, that the existing text is sufficient for us. The police have their experience with this, the prosecutors have their experience with it, of course, when the matter is not certain, they do some research or treat the person as being under 15 years of age. But because it has relatively important and procedural questions, whether someone is already fifteen or not, how we treat him in criminal proceedings, or whether something like criminal proceedings can run, or if there are other proceedings under the Youth Justice Act, we have therefore decided that this part will not be incorporated into the law, in this amendment of the law, so that, at least in the Czech legislation, when we implement, unfortunately, slightly nonsensical provisions, we do not make more and more and deeper mess. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u9	Thank you. Mr Ondráček is enrolled in the general debate, but before that, Mrs Levová was signed up with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u10	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I would like to return to the number of forms signed to the police, and I would like to go back to Mr Ondráček. I've been translating to the police quite a lot. And we've left out a little bit that there's an increase in the proportion of crimes involving foreigners, and interpreters have to submit to the police. At the same time, they have an obligation to translate all these forms, Mr Ondráček said that they are constantly increasing, and that if the interpreter really should translate all the forms, the lessons that are there, they could also be sitting there soon for nine hours just to translate the lessons, which is a real problem for me. I am not in favour of not signing it with young people, it is important there, but I agreed with the rapporteur, profesor. Válková, that it would open up, the number of forms and the reduction of forms, within the framework of the penal code, the amendment of the penal code. So I just want to draw your attention to this - that is, my colleague Ondráček - that this is another point that I think we should address, and these are the translations of these forms and these lessons. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u11	Thank you. Mr Ondráček in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, although I carry the entire House press, don't worry, I won't be too long. In essence, I was mentioned in the debate both by the rapporteur and by my honourable colleagues who spoke about the debate on the constitutional committee and, if necessary, by Mrs Levová. I'd like to remind you once again what it looks like to mess with the penal code. Anyone who goes to the police today to give an explanation is listed with him an official record of the submission of the explanation according to the so-called Section 158/6 of the Criminal Code. On this form you will find one and a half pages of instruction. Then this person is instructed as a victim or victim of a crime - three pages of instruction. Then he is instructed to obtain information for the victim of the crime - another three pages of the lesson. Confirmation of receipt of the instruction, because, of course, the police have to defend themselves if the person said that they had not been instructed, so another form is written on the form, taking over the instruction - half a page. And a lesson about providing information in criminal proceedings - one sheet. Together nine sheets of text size 8 Arial or other type of font. What Mrs Levová mentioned, when the interpreter in the case of a foreigner must translate this, I am very happy for him. I'm sure he's earned a few hours. Standard instruction in foreign languages, such as English, German and so on, is already in the forms within ETZ, electronic criminal proceedings, but it exists there. The material, as such, Mr Benda mentioned - and I mentioned it several times at first reading, as well as at the session of the Constitutional Legal Committee - is redundant from my point of view, it is another hunch in front of the nonsensical administration and implementation of European law, by which we indulge our Czech legal system, as mentioned here, who means a child, who understands a person under 15 years of age... youth. And we basically crossed out one option on the Constitutional Legal Committee, which means a child, which means a person under 15 years of age, but we left the same for a youth, which means a child in a category of 15 to 18 years of age. That means, again, if anyone claims to be a teenager, that means in category 15 to 18, we are obliged to treat him like this, and other things. So, for my part, I assume that even for the KSČM club, I say that we will not vote in favour of this because we reject further bureaucratisation of criminal proceedings. And I would like to remind, in particular, the members of the ANO movement and the Czech Social Democratic Party that they have put themselves in their programme declared government: we will reduce the administration of police and law enforcement authorities. You're adding more forms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one is to be heard in the general debate, and I am done with the general debate. There was no proposal to return the law to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation, so I am still asking whether there is an interest in the final words after the general debate. It's not. I am opening up a detailed debate. Mrs Maříková is registered to it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which was referred to by Mrs Válková here. In the system it is loaded as a House document 2625. It proposes specifying when an image and audio recording can be made about the youth's interrogation. The wording put forward that this can happen, where appropriate, is vague and, in practical terms, this vague legal concept can cause considerable problems. What are the circumstances? For example, the circumstances on the part of law enforcement authorities, the circumstances on a technical level, the circumstances on the staffing of law enforcement authorities, etc. It must be all the circumstances of the particular case. In addition to the circumstances of a particular case, the personality of the defendant himself should also be taken into account, as these categories are not one and the same, and Act No. 218/2003 Coll., on the responsibility of young people for unlawful acts and on the judiciary in matters of youth and on the amendment of certain laws, distinguishes them. For example, in § 33 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Although 1 sets out the obvious priority of taking an audiovisual record of an interview by a minor, it also defines certain situations in which this rule does not apply, where this correction is precisely the criterion of the adequacy of the circumstances of the case and should also be the personality of a minor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u15	Thank you. And with priority rights, President Radim Fiala is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u16	Thank you for the floor. Fellow Members, I am sorry, Minister and Professor, through Mr President, that I must interrupt this point for you, but I have announced to all the Presidents of the House's parliamentary clubs that, after 12 o'clock, we will be asking for a break at the parliamentary club's meeting until 12.30 p.m. when the next item is firmly placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u17	Yes, thank you. I accept this request. I'm calling a break. Let's continue... Yes, with priority rights, the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u18	Thank you. I'm just asking our colleagues at the meeting of our club to the President of the House of Vondráček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u19	Yes. At 12:30, we'll continue with the polls.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-004-006.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 12:30 p.m., the time spent on the break of the MP's club has ended and we will continue with the fixed points, which are changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies and the proposal to appoint members of the Czech Technical Agency. Initiating item number
