ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. To record your participation, I am signing you all off right now and I will ask you to sign up with the ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who votes with the replacement card. Mr. Pražák has his favorite card number 1. I am saying that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence: Dana Balcarová - a foreign trip, Ivan Bartoš until 14.30 without giving any reason, Jiří Běhounek - personal reasons, Ondřej Benešík within 10 hours - personal Lubomír, Jan Řehounek - working reasons, Jiří Bláha - Rutová Miloslava, Jaroslav Dvořák - health reasons, Dominik Feri within 11 hours - working reasons, Ivan Jáč within 11 hours - working reasons, Monika Jarošová within 11 hours - health reasons, Pavel Jelínek until 10.30 - working reasons, Marian Jurečka - family reasons, Pavel Juříček - foreign trip, Iva Kalátová - foreign trip, Jiří Kohoutek - family reasons, Jana Krutáková within 10 hours - working reasons, Jana Levová - health grounds, Jana Lipavský - foreign trip, Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková - personal reasons, no reason, Eva Pastuchová without giving reason, Václav Pastu - family Votava - family Volný - Richterová to 11 hours - working reasons. The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Vladimír Kremlík up to 11 hours - working reasons, Jana Maláčová up to 14.30 - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar up to 16 hours - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - foreign travel, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Antonín Staněk - personal reasons, Miroslav Toman - health reasons, Adam Vojtěch within 11 hours - working reasons. Furthermore, Mr Michal Ratiborský apologies were received within 11 hours for health reasons, Mrs Lucie Šafránková apologises between 9.00 and 9.30 for work reasons, and Mrs Margita Balaštíková apologises from 9.30 to 13.00 for work reasons. There. Before we proceed to the next program, I'd like to tell you that today is kind of a special day, because it's three of our colleagues' birthdays. That makes President Jan Farský exactly 40 years old today, so let me congratulate him and wish him every success, good health, good luck... [[Applause and a cheerful scream]] And since we were in Canada the other day with the delegation, and they normally wish for their birthday there, I thought it wouldn't be a bad tradition if we were here sometimes, since we're already living here, and wishing each other all the best. Other celebrationists are Mr Dominik Feri and Mr Radek Zlesák. I wish them a lot of success in both personal and professional life. [[Let's hear it.]] Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 53, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest, and they will then be drawn. So we're going to go ahead and talk about this.
