ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u1	298. The draft law amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended /German press 490/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with an amendment. His resolution was delivered as House Press 490/6. Information on the amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Marek Hilšer among us and ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová if she wishes to comment on the Senate resolution before the debate, on the amendment. If you're interested, Madam Secretary, I'd be happy to give you my word when it's quiet. [[The whole House is constantly noisy.]] Madam Secretary is interested. I note that I have yet to receive the decision of the Freedom and Direct Democracy MEP to present the club's position to Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Madam Secretary, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, do not force me to ask, by name, those who are discussing another subject to discuss it in the foyer! I mean the left-hand side and the right-hand side of the Chamber of Deputies. I also ask the presidents of the MPs to conduct any discussions that are certainly necessary on this subject outside the O.R.! Thank you. Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I think that, as far as the increase in parental status is concerned, all this has been said. I also think that families deserve certainty. Therefore, I would like to ask you, together, to support the increase in the parental and parliamentary versions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u3	Thank you, Minister. And I ask if Senator Marek Hilšer is interested in the speech and the justification of the Senate resolution. That's right. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, Mr Prime Minister, hello. At its 13th meeting on 14 December, the Senate decided to return the amendment to the Act on State Social Support, as amended by the amendment. The content of the amendment that we are sending you here essentially comes with the fact that it extends the range of persons who should be entitled to receive a new parental allowance, namely CZK 300,000, and that extension should also be about parents who have already exhausted the parental allowance by the date of the new adjustment. The debate in the Senate clearly showed that we welcome and appreciate the government's decision to increase parental contribution after 12 years. We think it is important to conduct a pro-family policy here, especially in a situation where we all feel and know that our demographic indicators tell us that our society is getting older. Therefore, any appreciation of parent care is positive. However, we approved the amendment because - and he was adopted, one might say, by an overwhelming majority of 70 senators out of 74 - we decided to accept it because we found the government amendment that came from you to be grossly discriminatory. We came from the explanatory report of the proposed law, which says that it is necessary to appreciate the care of young children, but we have noticed that this amendment excludes some parents from this award. The reasoned report also says that it is necessary to respond flexibly to the possibility of aligning family and working life, including in the field of batch support for parents caring for young children. That's a quote. But the proposed law punishes those parents who used up their contribution earlier and took part in the labour market. Thirdly, the explanatory memorandum states that the proposed law has positive social implications for the beneficiaries of the parental allowance, as the total amount of this benefit will be increased. But the positive effects are only for some parents, for those who receive parental contributions on the date of entry into force of the proposal. I don't think any of us are naive enough to think that we can create some kind of absolute justice. Of course you can't. But the way it works in life is that we can take less righteous decisions, even less just decisions, or also unfair decisions. I think, in reality, we could say that you had several options to stand up to the matter. Either increase the contribution for parents whose children are yet to be born - perhaps that would be the most just, even as citizens have responded on social networks. Or we could increase everyone's contribution - perhaps that would be a less just decision. Or maybe we could only give some and rule out 70,000 families. Unfortunately, we have decided - or you have chosen this option. [[16.40 hours]] I think the Senate has made it clear that the criterion "has exhausted the contribution, or has exhausted the contribution, has not exhausted the contribution, has not exhausted the contribution" is the worst criterion we could have chosen. What could we say to the single mother, honourable Member, to the honourable Members who have exhausted the contribution, because she is not socially well enough to go to work because otherwise she would not have lived? What can we tell her? No, you don't? Compared to a family who has the same old child, where a father who has a decent salary, so a wife - or when we say it more versa - can draw a contribution more slowly, while being in a good social situation. What can we tell her? How would we justify our decision? Well, in this case, I think we can only say that the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Finance have not found enough funds. I think it is our job to support in society a sense of general justice rather than injustice. The amendment, however, is also inconsistent in comparison with the earlier amendments that were adopted here, namely the law that regulated the drawing of the contribution for the multiples. There, this criterion - exhausted or not exhausted - was not considered, so that everyone received it. Lady Senator, gentlemen... Sorry. [[with a smile]] Madam, honourable Members, I think that the Senate has decided to remedy this unfair or less just solution that has been chosen and has decided to give a second chance to 70 thousand families who have been excluded from this increase in the contribution. Now you can decide, and I'm asking you, and please don't throw these families overboard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u5	Thank you, Senator Marek Hilšer. I ask whether the rapporteur of our guarantee committee, the Committee on Social Policy, as well as the rapporteur of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, wishes to comment on the Senate resolution. He doesn't want to express himself. In that case, I can open a debate where I have two requests with priority rights. First, Mr Marek Výborný, then Věra Kovářová, and then further sign-in in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u6	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister, Government, dear colleagues, colleagues, so I would like to thank the senators, Mr Senator, first of all, for returning this House's press and the increase in parental status to us, as we advocated here in the House. We really believe, and I repeat, that we should honor the principle of justice here, as has been repeated here. We should not deny entitlement to parental allowance to those about 70 or 80 thousand families who have exhausted it in an accelerated manner, having a child under four years of age on that decisive date on 31 December of this year, and that parental contribution would be due to the version that the government of the ANO movement and paradoxically social democracy and the KSČM would approve. Unfortunately, when we look at it with real numbers, what's going on here isn't always quite true. The Czech nation is a resourceful nation, and at the moment when it was clear that the government was going through this path of injustice to grant parental contribution, of course, many parents did their utmost to drag their time into the beginning of January. I think the Minister already knows - both Minister Maláčová and Minister Schillerová, because he is the guardian of the register, and the Prime Minister - that the situation is such that budget costs will unfortunately not be enough, because the information that is, please, based on the Labor Office data, is not something that has been sucked completely out of the finger, clearly indicates that about 1.5, maybe 1.2 billion. CZK will be needed to pay the additional parental allowance, because a number of those who initially counted on the shortened draw time extended the draw until the beginning of 2020, logically so that they would not lose the parental contribution. So we're really not quoting more than 2 billion today, but 1 billion, or a little over 1 billion. Crowns. I am convinced that if there was good will, good will on the side of the ANO movement, communists and social democracy, it is on these two left-wing parties, although the YES movement today is actually also left-wing, I find it very, very absurd. When I think of the motto "people for people" or something like that, it really is a very bright example of what you're doing here, colleagues and colleagues from KSČM, how you actually work with people for people. If that were the case, you would give a clear condition that the claim, a fair claim to parental allowance - and that is not for those who do not need it... By the way, the argument that the family budgets didn't count on it, so that we don't make it difficult for them to worry about how to use the 80 grand for their children, for their children, so that we don't make it difficult for them, that really seems like the ultimate peak, the peak of absurdity. I mean, it's pretty simple. Parental allowance, it's not a paycheck. The family's income isn't monitored while he's collecting it. Often - and the Senator here said so, if anyone listened well, so he heard - they are often really families with very low social status. It is for them that it is very convenient to draw fast because they receive the parental allowance at once or in a very short time, and then they go to work so that they can support their family. Often they are single moms, but they are also families who actually approach it responsibly: to feed the family, so they draw fast and go to work. By the way, they are logically taking all of us taxpayers' taxes, social and health taxes, etc. to the state budget, Prime Minister, to you, the Czech Republic. etc. So it's very convenient on both sides, isn't it? So I ask what is preventing what is preventing this from happening now, even in this time right before Christmas, to say: One billion is not a problem, given how public finances are coming out today, how the state budget is coming out. And with common strength here, we will support the fair proposal, as we have supported him in the KDU-ČSL during the first meeting here in the House, repeatedly, repeatedly explaining the arguments why this should be the case, and repeatedly our senators on the Senate's soil along with others. And now they're returning the proposal here to the House in this righteous form. So I would like to ask you, let us really take your head in the game and both the government members YES, ČSSD, KSČM, so let us all support a fair parental contribution for all families who have children under the age of four. Indeed, these families, these parents, these children deserve it. And if the whole charade of yesterday and today by the government parties was only supposed to give those families some false hope that last afternoon or evening it seemed that yes, that the parental contribution would be approved this way - and I still want to hope for common sense and Members of the government camp to succeed. But if it really was going to be some kind of charade, it seems really, really embarrassing to those families in this way of raising false hopes. Let's try this because it wasn't just some comedy naoko, and let's actually approve a fair parental contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u7	Thank you, Mr. Marek the Výborný. Now Mrs. Věra Kovářová and then Lucie Šafránková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate has returned our parental contribution with an amendment concerning all parents with children under four who will be entitled to the increased parental contribution. I think Senator Hilšer has made it clear here why the Senate did so. Compared to the Senate version, the House version is discriminatory because it punishes parents who went to work before their children reached the age of four. The Senate version, on the contrary, is fairer. Minister Maláčová originally proposed this version, but there has been an agreement that only those parents of children who still receive parental and do not go to work. According to the Senate's version of the increased parental allowance, those who, for example, had to exhaust it faster because of the difficult financial situation and also had to go to work to support their children and their families will also be entitled. These are the ones who need this increased parental contribution the most. The Senate version corrects this discrimination, which is why the starosta and the independent Senate version will also support it, and if it fails, it will support the House version. Today, Minister Maláčová said that social democracy will only support the version of the Houses, because agreements are to be respected, which is correct, but explain this to the 70 000 parents who will not be entitled to this increased parental contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mrs Lucie Šafránková. A colleague Jan Bauer will be ready. With priority rights, Tomio Okamura. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u10	Thank you for the floor. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak to you today for the last time on the matter of parental contribution. I don't want to talk too long. So let me just say a few words that I consider most important. The SPD has been fighting for a massive increase in this contribution to all parents who care for a child under four years of age, from the very beginning of discussions on this amendment. While some parties, such as social democracy, have changed their views and opinions on this matter several times, for the last time about twice in the last 24 hours, we remain absolutely firm and consistent. We are basing our position on the argument that has been made here and here by me several times. After all, I was together with my colleague Bauer and the petitioner of the relevant amendment, which was intended to correct the unfairly unfair government amendment and which is identical to the proposal adopted by the Senate. Our arguments are based, in particular, on the fact that the parental contribution is a general and universal benefit of state social support, the payment of which, and therefore, the increase and all other potential changes, must not be selective and selective. The only condition here is child care under four years of age, which is why every parent who satisfies this is entitled to the allowance, however high it may be, including the right to increase it. There is also a precedent for raising parental allowance for parents of multiples. This increase two years ago also concerned all parents of all multiples up to four years of age, regardless of whether they were still receiving the contribution or not. Thus, there is also a perfectly legitimate expectation on this basis of the current parents of children under the age of four, while at the same time there is a risk of possible unconstitution of today's government proposed selection. In many individual examples, it can also be shown that the selective increase in parental allowance only to those who have not completed parental allowance is seriously harmed especially by working low-income parents, who have chosen shorter draw time in good faith, have returned to employment, pay taxes and levies, and the government is still de facto punishing them. Finally, a full-scale increase in parental contribution would only be about 2 billion more expensive than a government option. By the way, we will pay the same amount on subsidies to so-called solar barons every three calendar weeks. Madam Secretary of Finance, through Mr President, you have declared many times that you have found similar, even higher amounts, for example, when negotiating with individual ministers about the establishment of a budget or in solving problems in social services and the like, without any major problems. Do you really want to say that now, in this case, this is not possible, or that you are completely indifferent to the feelings and lives of those parents and children that you are proposing to throw overboard? Colleagues and colleagues, the French writer Prince de La Rochefoucauld has told one great truth. Many of you may also know it from today's iconic Czech film Snowflakes and Masters. She says: "What others have done about us, we will cope with it, and what is worse is what we have done about ourselves. " And I add that the worst thing at all is to deal with what we have done to others, especially when it comes to such an incredible injustice as the government's form of proposal to increase parental contribution. Please bear this in mind during the next vote. And let me also thank the independent initiative of parents We also take care of their activities as part of the discussion of the increase in parental allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u11	I thank Mrs Lucia Šafránková and now Vice-President Tomio Okamura with priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sum up what we are discussing here today. About 14 days ago, we voted here at third reading on the amendment by Mrs Lucie Šafránková and Mr Bauer for the ODS, a joint amendment to receive parental, increased parental allowance from 220 thousand to 300 thousand, also single mothers who, desperately, are unable to live from parental, premature parental leave, have children under four years of age and have to go into employment. And the government and members of the ANO, the ČSSD and the KSČM movement rejected this amendment by Mr Bauer and Mr Šafránková. On the other hand, yesterday, the ministry of the government of the ANO movement, ČSSD, eventually the KSČM gave a negative opinion on an amendment to the SPD bill, which terminates the abuse of social benefits by so-called inadaptables, and we want to address these social benefits so that they are not abused by these so-called parasitic fellow citizens. So this is exactly where the first plane of what we're talking about today shows up. Mrs Maláčová from the ČSSD, this is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the one hand gives a negative opinion on our bill - that is neutral, but it is not true because neutral was there for the Ministry of Regional Development, the Government's Legislative Council gives negative, you simply did not support it, so it gives a negative opinion on the fact that you do not want to address social benefits, you do not want to end the payment of benefits inadaptable. On the other hand, we have 70,000 parents with young children under the age of four who you refuse to increase the parental contribution, to which they are morally and otherwise entitled, but at the same time you increase the parental contribution to so-called inadaptable families. Well, that's a really incredible situation. So that's one plane. [[17,00 hours]] I am pleased that the Senate has adopted the amendment by Mr Bauer and Mr Šafránková and that it has adopted this amendment so that the 70,000 single parents who work are polite so that they also have a logical claim to the increased parental status, because they also have children under four years of age. And now here we are back to what we were at about 14 days or three weeks ago, again with the vote, basically, about the amendment by Bauer and Šafránková, if I sum it up. In the meantime, it's the Senate that's taken over. And now there's a second plane - that's the character of Secretary Maláčová, who's in charge here for the ČSSD. So first, when voting in the House, to say it in human language, she betrayed 70,000 mothers or parents, such as single parents with young children. So first, he's gonna double-cross single moms who had to work hard. Then, apparently, the ČSSD desperately found that they were losing their preferences, so Minister Maláčová told us for ČSSD and Vice-President of the ČSSD here yesterday that she would actually support the amendment by Bauer and Šafránková, which, in the meantime, essentially accepted the Senate, and that she would actually persuade her coalition partners, the ANO movement and the KSČM to accept this proposal. So she called on them not only to set up the 70 single moms and these parents, but she even went to screw up the coalition partners. [[1000]] So we're double-crossing. So after talking to Secretary Maláčová and ČSSD apparently Andrej Babiš or someone from the YES movement, they explained to them that it would be a double-cross to them, not just to those 70 thousand desperate parents, and that it can't be done that they can't be double-crossers. Be double-crossers on one side, but on two, that's too much. Within 24 hours, Mrs. Maláčová made the turnaround again, and what happened yesterday or a few hours ago is no longer valid. So she said again, we got those from the coalition partner, we can't be backstabbers, you're backstabbers, we can't, we got it clearly, and so they said that they wouldn't support the 70 thousand desperate parents, the low-income ones, some of them low-income, some of them no, but in any case they have children under four years of age, and they actually made a turn again. So that's the policy of the CSSD, so no one knows about it anymore. He's a total galitayas. [[Noise in the hall.]] So, once again, it's confirmed how it works in a government coalition. And basically, in conclusion, I'd just sum it up. We are now approaching the vote, and it is very clear that the government coalition is voting for a version where 70,000 parents with children under the age of four will not receive an increased parental, even though they should be entitled to it. On the contrary, some so - called parasitic families who have made parasitic on social welfare their program of life, so they will receive support. That really sounds like a disgusting social program to me. Don't be mad at me. That means, all I can do is call on the government coalition again, even though I know it's in vain, because you're already agreed, and it's already been said in the media to support those working single moms. So you don't encourage the parasites on the social system. So that's what the SPD is saying here, that's what we're trying to do, and, of course, within a very short time, so into the watch, I think it's going to come to a vote and we're going to see how the ČSSD and the KSČM are going to vote because I can't forget about the DSČM either, the DSČM also said that it wouldn't support the 70,000 single moms, the parents of single parents and other people in a desperate situation to be entitled to the increased vacation, the increased parental. So it's a coalition of the ANO movement, CSSD, KSČM. On the one hand, they say how socially sensitive they are, but they are not social but antisocial. And most importantly, it's a CSSD problem. It's a CSSD problem. You have the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Communists, I respect them for admitting to the truth, they have stood up to the coalition partner openly, you have stood up fair to your coalition agreement, you simply hold up what you have agreed there, even though I disagree with this, but so you are acting as a reliable coalition partner, and that is certainly in politics, even though I cannot agree with this particular thing, with what you have agreed, that is, supporting the inadaptable ones, but that you will vote in favour of denying support to the decent, proper parents who would need it, the increased parent. That's why I'm here, not criticizing the communists at all. I don't agree with the program, but that's politics. You just have a different agenda, other deals, okay. So it's okay. But the voter has to evaluate it. We have different opinions, that's okay. But what the CSSD is doing here, I think it deserves really special attention. Extraordinary. Because it is not possible that the Minister and Vice-President of the Government Party, that is, Minister Jana Maláčová, is doing this in 24 hours. This is not what citizens expect - stability so that they can trust the state so that they can lean on becoming decent working people. It's just a crazy situation. So we say clearly for the SPD movement - we will vote in favour of those 70,000 parents, such as single parents, who simply had to go to work early to make a living at all, to qualify for the parent, on the contrary, we are in favour of those who live a parasitic way of life so that they don't have the support, and we will continue to promote it here even if you overvote us this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u13	Thank you. In the debate, he will now perform... Before I give the floor to Mr Bauer, Mr Petr Dolínek, with a factual remark, came forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u14	Thank you. I, through Mr President, would like to tell the Vice-President to see how his movement voted on the increase in the salaries of teachers, this is an increase in salaries all the time, and let him stop teaching us here. Thank you. I know how I voted, which is why I'm willing to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u15	With a factual remark, Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u16	Thank you for asking, but another lie on the air. We did not vote in favour of Mrs Valachová's populist proposal, which increased by three billion teacher salaries. We voted in favour of the five billion proposed by a Member of the Pirates, and that was the teaching staff and for three billion more for non-teaching workers. So now I don't know, you, Mr President, either find out these things or don't lie! You were either not here, or you were sleeping, or I don't know what you were doing here, but we voted in favour of an even greater increase than Mrs Valachová suggested! What are you lying about? What are you making up? I mean, look at the records. I can't believe what the CSSD is saying here. You guys are really desperate. You guys are normally lying right here on live TV. I can't believe this! So we didn't vote for Mrs. Valachová for a simple reason. Because first you introduce inclusion, Mrs. Valachová, for six billion crowns a year, and then here, with your pardon, you're chasing your shirt that you want to add three billion to your teachers. So we couldn't vote for your proposal because it was the populism of the deepest grain. The inclusion for six billion will first be introduced here by the ČSSD, a completely failed thing, we were opposed, a complete disintegration of education, and then Mrs Valachová here also proposes three billion increases in the salary of teachers. So we didn't vote for you, nor would we vote again for your populist proposal by your Member Valachová. I didn't want to talk about it, but since you opened it for the CSSD, I have to give you a clear answer! I didn't want to talk about it! I didn't even want to talk about Mrs Valachová, but this, I would say, inadequate, incorrect attack must be answered immediately. On the contrary, we chose to vote for another proposal, where we, by chance, were even higher. So please, just stop lying, really, act really true here, because you're not fooling me. I know exactly how we voted. You might want to tell yourself that in the media, maybe some voter of yours will buy it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u17	Let me introduce you to an apology. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons. It is Mrs Valachová's point of order, and Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will also be prepared with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u18	I think it is essential that this government builds on the work of the previous government. As for both teachers and teachers and education, as well as for parental contributions, raising finances towards families with children is record-breaking. Those are the facts. As to how to proceed, or whether all children deserve a higher contribution within four years, there is probably no one here who wants to question it. The proposal, as we support and support it at the moment, is a cover for the state budget and it is something that is worked out and that is certain. As far as inclusion is concerned, it has been mentioned here, it is such a mysterious word, so I just want everyone to study carefully in the budget how much inclusion costs. And just for those who listen to us, or for ourselves, I would like to say that all these costs relate to the salaries of teachers, special educators, teaching assistants, etc. I think that this money is exactly the money that Tomio Okamura spoke about through you towards pedagogical and non-teaching workers that he deserves. And for the last time, I would also recommend, because this topic is always coming back, so that everyone can study the drugs of this April 2015 amendment to the Education Act who voted for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u19	Thank you. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I am still, with your permission, Mr President, for President Okamura and Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Now it seems that the 70,000 families you've been talking about, as well as your colleague Šafránková, are all singles, and at the same time in one breath you say you're giving a novel to deal with the great abuse of social benefits. I've been given this as a newsletter, so I'm looking forward to it, but let's say frankly, with one breath you're talking about a major abuse of social benefits, and on the other hand, you're saying 70,000 families and almost everything singles. But among them are the families and parents who are in the employment office, who receive social benefits and which you call to a large extent as inadaptable and as people who abuse benefits. That's what it sounds like from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u21	Thank you. It is now Mr Bauer's turn in the debate, and Mrs Golasowská will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of my performance, I will start at the very end, because I have noticed that the Prime Minister has left, which, of course, is legitimate and possible, but I had a short question for him at the end of my performance, so I'll say, maybe I'll catch him somewhere in the lobby and maybe he'll hear me. I, like all of you, read in the media a little while ago that when I spoke with one of the moms, he promised that he would pay from his own, which is undoubtedly a good achievement, so I would like to ask a question through the Prime Minister - of course, the word of a man is of great importance, the word of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is even greater - whether he was thinking only of the mother he met, or whether the promise that he would pay out of his own will apply to all the moms who applied, or whether it was true for all the moms, regardless of whether they applied or not. I believe that the promise, as I know the generous Prime Minister, belongs to all the mothers, even those who sign up or not, and in that case, I have two messages for him. One message is bad and the other is good. The bad news is that it's about 70, maybe 60,000 moms or parents to be correct, which is a really high number. And the good news is that I have the feeling that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs alone does not quite know how to calculate what the fair parenting would mean in practice, as we speak about it in the parliamentary version I presented with my colleague Mrs Šafránková, or in the Senate version that we will be voting on shortly. Anyway, it is, and that's the good news that, in my opinion, it's not the 2.7 billion. koruna, as is said, but that the Prime Minister would save significantly, because according to my estimates it is 1.3 to 1.5 billion. Crowns. So I ask the power, through Mr President, to give the opinion, as it was meant to be. Otherwise, I'd really like to start by thanking you. Everyone sitting here, from time to time, we face various campaigns of interest groups or coercive actions by various activists that convince us that their view of a particular problem is the only good and correct, and I have to say on the basis of two- or three-month experience that this time it was completely different. In large numbers, people from whom we don't usually get e-mails have approached us or started contacting us. We were approached by parents who care for young children, by people who usually have enough to do their job and worry rather than organize organized events towards the legislators. So without unnecessary emotion and emotional blackmail. I think, after the experience and the encounters, that they have brought very factual and correct arguments to the public space, and I would like to thank them very much in this way and to say that I very much appreciate the meetings, the arguments, and, of course, here among us, to greet them and welcome them. On the other hand, I am rather sad that it is the citizens, whatever political party voters they are, that the legislator must warn us that there may be a pretty good way for us to pass a law that is unconstitutional. I do not want to repeat my argument here, which I advocated in my earlier amendment together with my colleague Šafránková, and which is based on the current Senate version of the Act on State Social Support, and I will not go back to how the civil democratic party sees a good pro-family policy, and that our ideas with those governments are very often broken up, but I will stop at the unconstitutionality. Legal certainty is the basis of the rule of law. Whoever decides to take action or conduct in a legal state must know in advance the legal consequences of such conduct. Every citizen in the state of law must move on a playground that has given and known to him. And if these boundaries shift or change, then only to the future, not backwards. There's a ban on retroactivity from here. And this principle is clearly applicable to the setting of the parental drawing system in the form in which we know it, and until we have to change it in the future, for example, following the European regulations. Parents receive parental allowance at a pre-known amount and at a rate that they choose from the law as far as possible. It's just their free will to choose it by the law. Therefore, the requirement to ban retroactivity cannot exclude parents from the planned increase in parental contribution simply because they chose to draw faster if they did not have, and could not, at the time of their decision, awareness that the total amount to be drawn by government decisions would increase. They just didn't have the information at the time. Unfortunately, the original government proposal did. He distinguishes two groups of children's parents under four years of age, when he rewards one and punishes another for past decisions, which may seem completely different in the knowledge of future changes. And that, in my opinion, is a clear contradiction with the principles of the rule of law. After all, Senator Hilšer's colleague was talking about it. We have seen this in the legislators in the recent past, when this Grand Chamber approved an increase in parental allowance for parents of multiples. I am looking for President Jan Chvojka, President of the ČSSD, through Mr President - because he was precisely the representative who proposed the amendment, and my colleague Jan Chvojka probably even took it for granted at the time, that it would simply be equal to the fact that the transitional provisions which opened this option did not even justify it in his amendment. Look at that, that's a significant difference from what's happening now. [[17.20 hours]] Nothing has changed about the situation at the moment, today we are facing exactly the same fundamental decision. The government, or if you want its dominant part, the YES movement, wants to increase the parental contribution only to some parents, although the claim is clearly defined in the law and is linked only to the age of the child within four years. There's no other indicator, please. The government is thus following the proverb so that the wolf eats, they understand that there is a nice PR in the paper, how it helps families, and the wolf stays whole, they understand that it doesn't spend much. On the contrary, a large part of the Chamber of Deputies advocated equal access from the outset to all parents who were entitled by law. There weren't enough of us last time. The Senate returned the amendment to us and had to give it back to us because raising parental allowance selectively only to some parents who are entitled to it at the moment is discriminatory and therefore unconstitutional. Today there is a large part of us again, and let us hope that even the majority, who still wants the same thing. Those of you who still insist that the benefit of an increase in parental allowance will only be allocated to some parents should consider what may occur in a relatively short period of time in my opinion. If the original version of the government amendment of the law is approved, it is almost certain that there will be parents who ask for an increase, even though they have already completed their contribution. This will logically be rejected, so they will be able to appeal to the Constitutional Court and file a constitutional complaint against unfair treatment after the administrative procedure has been completed. This follows precisely from the fact that the law violated the rule against retroactivity and violated the rules of law during the game. During the game, I repeat. More and more experts from the legal community admit that their chances of success are not small at all. Constitutional complaints can, of course, be combined with a proposal to abolish the anti-constitutional provisions of this law. Finally, allow me a brief opinion from the Civil Democratic Party. If the Senate version fails today, we will also support the original government because we do not want to deprive our parents of the increased contribution. However, for the Civil Democratic Party, I want to say clearly at the same time that we continue to be on the side of the predictability of law and constitutionality. Of course, neither can we, like no one here in the hall forward, anticipate the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, since the Constitutional Court is clearly in danger of a possible government amendment to the State Social Support Act or part of it being abolished, we want to avoid further legal uncertainty and imminent confusion with the payment of an increased parental contribution. So if the Senate version and the House do not pass today and then the President confirms the Government version, we have decided immediately to submit an amendment that will return fair and equal access to the law. After a possible decision by the Constitutional Court, we want the proposal to comply with all legislative and constitutional rules already in the legislative process, and the time of any uncertainty for parents is as short as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mrs Golasowská, Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík apologizes from today's meeting from 17.00 to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Antonín Staněk from 16.30 to 19.00 for working reasons. Mrs Pavla Golasowská will now appear, and Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Senate today, who has returned the draft law on State Social Support back to the House. KDU-ČSL tabled an amendment to the draft of this law at the House, which unfortunately failed, and as a result of its non-acceptance, 70,000 families were discriminated against. This number is very important, it has been said here several times today, it is 70,000 families, 70,000 households, which have been earmarked from this proposal to support parental contribution. Senator Hilšer has already mentioned the reasons in the explanatory statement on the proposed law today, and I will read them again, because repetition is the mother of wisdom. The reasoned report of the proposed law states that it is necessary to appreciate the care of young children, while excluding some parents from this appreciation. After all, those who have exhausted it take care of their children as well as those who draw them. The next point of the explanatory memorandum is that there is a need to respond flexibly to the possibility of aligning family and working life, including in the area of batch support for parents caring for young children. At the same time, the proposed law punishes those parents who had exhausted their contribution earlier and joined the labour market. Here I would like to point out that the contribution was often used up earlier by the parents who joined the labour market and paid taxes in our state register. I would like to stress that the Minister said today that families deserve certainty, and I think that we have no doubt. But I have a question. Only some families deserve certainty? What about the 70,000 families? That is why I am asking you today and I ask that we vote this certainty for all those who raise children under the age of four, even though the contribution has already been exhausted. Finally, although my colleague, Mr Bauer, has already crossed me, I would also like to ask the absent Prime Minister today through Mr President: Mr Prime Minister, you have said in the debate with an independent initiative We also care that one of the moms gets paid. What about the other 70,000 moms? They're unlucky they weren't at the House today? Or can they also turn to you? If so, we'll be happy to send them to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u25	Thank you, and so far the last one entered into the debate is Mrs Richterová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u26	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary here, Mr Senator, colleagues, I would like to make a very brief statement on the subject which we have all been hostages for the last year. Basically, we are the hostages to the public's confidence that in some way we represent the administration of this country and of ourselves who are in opposition, and of us who have no real influence. And even the example of parental approval shows how unpredictable it is to decide how many promises are made in vain and how hard it is to say that there is something to be relied on in politics. Indeed, the most difficult for the general public to understand, I believe, is that it has been said several times, in particular, by the Minister's mouth, that the parental contribution will be claimed for all those who will have children under four years of age, and then it turns out that this is not a functional coalition agreement. We are simply now in a situation where there is a broad consensus in the House that the parental contribution needs to be increased, except for the very last moment. People are in doubt until the last moment, and instead of going through it peacefully some three quarters of a year ago, and so that there are sufficient information materials for workers and workers at the employment office to know what to tell people, so that they too have sufficient evidence to inform people, and instead in some workplaces they are in complete uncertainty until the last moment. It's not everywhere, but from all the feedback I get from the field, people don't know what they should know. [[17.30 hours]] So that's one really bad news. Instead of trusting the public that, at least for such a universally supported thing, such as raising the parental contribution, this will be approved in a timely and predictable manner, so people are in doubt again, stress workers and in the finals will unfortunately be disappointed that they will not reach the full 80 000, that there will be monthly draw limits and that - and that is at least one thing that has succeeded and for which I want to thank colleagues from those parties who have recognised it as important, which were actually all parties except ANO and ČSSD, namely an increase in the monthly draw limit to CZK 10,000, which concerns a lot of businessmen. Thus, some families can exhaust at least a little more. For this proposal that has been passed by the pirát, I am very glad and thank you for those who have supported us. But it still doesn't solve the situation of a number of families who may not have known that there is a limit, that the change in parental allowance is possible only once every three months. So whoever came to extend it in December won't be able to change the draw height until March. These kinds of things needed to be widely communicated as soon as possible. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] So that is one point - predictability, loss of public confidence, in fact, in the quality of public administration. And the second thing I want to say. Support for families, support for parenting and support for quality and widely available preschool care -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u27	I'm sorry, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your voice down so that Mrs Richterová can finish her speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u28	Thank you - and baby care. And it's basically the theme of the Children's Group Act, whatever they're called, doesn't matter. It is simply a law concerning how preschool facilities will be financed, children typically between the year and half and three years of age. And this law is somewhere in the middle, somewhere hanging, funding is from the euro funds, there is no prospect of how it will be in the future. And this is the key thing for families with young children, if they really need a place for them at the age of two, if the care is really good because there won't be an excessive number of children for a typical teacher. I just want to remind you that the debate on the number of children per teacher, one tutor, in kindergarten, I think it hasn't even started yet. And at the same time, the 24 children, for example, at the age of three, are simply not manageable as the limits are set for us today. Finally, I would like to stress that the squabbling that we have witnessed around the parental contribution on the political scene seems undignified to me for my parents. I believe that they do not deserve this, and it would be necessary not to experience such squabbling in the future. It would be necessary to have regular, moderate increases, not jumps like this. That, in turn, was the essence of the pirate proposal of regular, mild valorisation. He's been rejected. But I want to remind you. In a few years' time, someone else will probably present a jumping increase and we will be in a very similar situation again. And that's just undignified and such a roundabout of conjecture and in the final of injustice should always be for someone, we believe, in the Pirates, not to continue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u29	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Holomčík will now speak. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u30	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. I'd take the liberty of reacting and adding a little bit to my colleague Richterová. My peers, my friends, my friends, my friends, who have little children just like me, tell me that they don't really know how it's going to be since the New Year, and often their reports contain all sorts of swearing words that they said to officials and officials in the offices when they asked what's going to happen, and they weren't able to tell them. And I just stood up for them. I know it's not modern to stand up for officials, but in this case, officials at the Forgiveness Offices are just eating away the coalition's inability to agree on such essential things as parental, as parental contributions. If we want our state to provide citizens with quality services, then the people who work in offices are the key connections. And I certainly do not imagine that this creates some quality or pleasant environment for the people we need to be able to provide citizens with quality services as a state. And I don't think that's much to talk about, but it seems very important to me to say. We place a number of responsibilities on officials, and we just demotivated them in a pretty crucial way. So I'd like this coalition to work a little bit more systematically, because this is totally unbearable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u31	Thank you. President Kalousek will now speak in the debate, followed by President Stanjura, who has now volunteered. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, consistently with its behaviour in the first second and third reading, the TOP 09 MEP will support the Senate proposal and I would like to recommend it to you. If the Senate proposal is not approved, we will also support the House proposal. But we will support him with the feeling that 70 to 80,000 families with young children will have a legitimate sense of discrimination, and I am convinced that those less than CZK 2 billion are not really worth this feeling in these families. But that's up to you to consider. Now allow me to pay tribute to a longtime professional - social democracy. Because politics is a craft in a way and requires its skills, and if anything goes well, a colleague should appreciate it. Although you, colleagues from social democracy, have failed, although you have announced it, to promote higher salaries for teachers, you, colleagues from social democracy, are unlikely to achieve even a fairer parental contribution, although you have also announced it, but on the other hand, you have masterfully managed to double the fee at the cadastral office. And that just needs to be appreciated. The priorities are quite clear: it is a policy for people, and I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u33	Thank you. President Stanjura, Mr President Výborný after him. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u34	Thank you for the floor. What I am going to say now, I will not be too happy to say to my colleagues in social democracy because I considered them a traditional political party, albeit leftist, with which we ideally see the form of our state and important public services systems, whether they are taxes, health care, social areas. And I could go on like this. I'm going to start with what I read this morning in monitoring, and those are the words of Minister Maláčová: They all gave the truth to my original proposal. The opposition as a whole, the Senate as a whole, they gave me the truth, everyone gave me the truth. - Well, obviously not. Apparently not. - I will persuade my colleagues, Members and Members to support the Senate version and the opposition's opinion, because this is my idea and my project. Apparently, the secretary wasn't successful. Five ministerial seats are worth more than the fact that they all gave the Minister the truth in her words. That's all this is about. [[17.40 hours]] We hear days, weeks, and months of words about how there's no money. All right. Let us mention the ministries leading the YES movement and try to look for money in the ministries led by the Czech Social Democratic Party, and I will narrow it down to budget chapter 313 - if I am not mistaken. Madam Secretary, this is your budget chapter. [[Minister Maláčová.]] 313. Let's see. We don't have the money for a fair parental contribution. But we have almost 800 million in the budget for consulting services. Madam Secretary put it in her budget, and therefore in the government's budget. [[Secretary Maláčová is fixing it.]] 780, you're right. It's not 800. 780. We have, let's be grateful for that, record low unemployment and record high employment. Take a look under the heading - budget chapter 313 MPSV, active employment policy. Almost 3.5 billion for what? For who? Again for consulting firms, which will probably constantly train those who do not want to work and can work. Then there are others who can't. But I'm not talking about them at all. Ask employers if they would like to employ Czech employees if they were on the market. They're not. But we have 3.5 billion in a senseless element of active employment policy. And the same secretary says, "There's no money, it's reality." I didn't convince the YES movement. She's got the money in her budget, but she'd rather throw it away than give it to young families. It's that simple. We identified it in the budget, the amounts. We designed to spare them. But even the Social Democrats voted against. If I were to sum up the Minister's position on a fairy-tale, so if I used the favourite part of my favorite fairy-tale - I recall what I called off, and I promise what I promised, but I would rather use the principled opinion of the Minister. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. And finally, I will obey Andrej Babiš. Even though I convinced everyone about my truth. And you can tell me if it would be a violation of the coalition agreement. We really don't care. We really don't care. By the way, at the last point, you violated the government's programming statement on fiscal neutrality and non-tax increases. And you guys put your hands together. Great. You can. But don't tell me they're not 1.5 or 2 billion. At the last point, I counted. One mile of expenses. One mile of expenses. And you're gonna throw tens of thousands of families overboard because, as the secretary said, everyone was right about me. No, Madam Secretary, I'm not gonna tell you the truth about that. Your original proposal was really better. I have no reason not to admit it. You convinced us, we're ready to vote in favour of the upper chamber proposal. You convinced the upper chamber. However, warm ministerial chairs are more important than tens of thousands of families with young children. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u35	Thank you. President Marek Výborný, then Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Government, Colleagues, I listened carefully to the whole debate, and I kept waiting for someone from the government camp to stand here, someone from social democracy, from the ANO movement, to come here to the counter. And through you, Mr Vice-President - Mr Juchelka, you are always pretending to be in the position of those who defend the interests of those families, so come here and say it. Come to their eyes and tell them that 70 or 80,000 families will be unjustly punished for having exhausted the contribution before and can't draw now. Come and tell the representatives of the initiative We also care - they're upstairs. And it's worth thanking them for the way they didn't for themselves, but for those families, they tried to convince you of what was right. Colleagues from Social Democracy - you keep your mouth shut and look in the benches. Come here and say it to your face! Because these are things that, from my point of view, are actually completely incomprehensible. So many arguments have been put up with here, it's not a question of budgets. Of course the funds are. It just takes courage to use a little common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u37	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u38	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to delay, but as always, I am pleased with the right's touching concern for the fate of social democracy. And I just want to remind you that there were times when the right-wing government ruled here. And the same people who talk today about the need to raise the parental contribution, to think about the families with children, so they forgot about it and during their governments not only did they not add, but they cut not only in social policy spending but in wages! [[unintelligible]] Ask the police, go to the police station, go to the fire station, and ask how it was for you! [[He speaks very strongly.]] Minus ten and tax the debts. That was your job! And you're gonna blame us for something! And who invented the parental allowance? Social democracy! We came up with this in negotiations with the YES movement. And I want to thank our coalition partner for agreeing, and we made that commitment, and now we've put it through. And you're gonna blame us? Start with you. Start with you and ask your conscience how you managed this republic! And how you did all those things for people. We said we wanted to raise the parental allowance. Yes, we had a slightly different idea than our coalition partner, but it's a matter of compromise. And the ODS will confirm that when she was in government, she had to compromise, too, which I understand. But we made it in the finals. And what are you accusing us of today? Start with yourself, scrutinize your conscience, and go face-to-face with those who have experienced those mouths - wage cuts, cuts in other benefits under your rule! Those people already know. You're already... They have experience with you and they know what they can expect of you, so don't throw it at social democracy! We got what we wanted. We're a minute from the vote today, so please let us vote it out. But I don't care about your care for social democracy. We've done everything we've promised our constituents, and we're clean. We have a clear conscience. I doubt yours!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u39	President Zbyněk Stanjura, with a factual remark, followed by Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u40	Then I'd like to ask President Hamáček not to mention my conscience. It's clean for me, too. I'm not worried about social democracy, I've lost it a long time ago. You said you were defending the interests of your constituents. So your constituents don't sit up there? [[at the gallery for visitors]] Those parents, those 70, 80,000 families you want to take away from this, aren't your voters? Well, it's possible. I don't know whose voters they are. But they're right. That's important! There's four of them, says the minister. Come on, ladies, there's four of you. Well, if there were forty, then maybe the Social Democrats would... It doesn't matter whose voters they are! The important thing is whether they're right. [[Strongly.]] And they're right. And you're scared shitless! So it was Madam Secretary who said yesterday: everyone told me the truth, I will convince my colleagues to support it. And what happened, Vice-President of your party? You can't even stand up for her! [[Screams from the benches. Disagree.]] You can't stand up for her! And here you're making awkward excuses and dragging other things in here. Don't throw these people, these young families overboard. [[Screams from the bench: it's power.]] It's intense. Your procedure is strength, that's right. You don't hear rational arguments because you made a deal. I showed where the secretary could find the money herself. And he'd rather give it to those consulting firms than those families. What do we need an active employment policy for? Who, what are you gonna spend $3.5 billion on? Dumped money! So you can lick and say how great you are and thank the YES movement, but you said yesterday, not the YES movement, that you will support the Senate version. I promise what I promised, and I withdraw what I called off. That's the Minister's approach, and don't lie about it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u41	The following are the factual points in the following order: Mr Ferjenčík, President Výborný, Mr Veselý and Mr Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the liberty of responding briefly to my colleague, Hamáček. First of all, the pirát haven't ruled here yet, so the cuts aren't coming after us. In any case, unlike you, we have proposed regular parental valorisation so that parents can be sure that as inflation rises, parents will rise in the future. Unfortunately, the government coalition blocked it. Anyway, why are we having this debate with Secretary Maláčová? The point is, I quote from her Facebook from December 15th, that's two days ago. That is what I would expect the Minister to remember: that is why President Hamáček and I will ask ČSSD Members to support the Senate version. - It says here two days ago, the Minister on Facebook, so that on 17 December, the same Minister asked the House to vote in favour of the House version, which means for the version that doesn't add 80,000 to the families. I don't understand how anyone has the audacity to post on their Facebook page asking for their side and, along with President Hamáček, for her side to vote for something, and then here she was making excuses that she couldn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u43	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u44	Thank you. Mr Vice Prime Minister, I really don't care about social democracy right now. I care about your parents. That's what I'm talking about. Which you can't face and say yes to, I'll take you 70,000 and I won't give you the money. Even though the secretary here has been saying something for two days, then she's saying something else. Really the uncertainty you're raising here, first you give them hope, and then, sorry, sorry, we didn't agree, the Prime Minister fired us and all that. So it really isn't about social democracy. It's about these people. About the parents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u45	Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u46	First, the pirát. I didn't dare accuse the pirát of being there. That was the response to colleague Stanjur, who, he didn't, but his political party has been there since 1991 at least, and we all know what they've done here. And two. This debate reminds me of that, bard, keep it up, and when you've got 30 million, come and we'll bill together, in the words of Cimrman. And I'm asking. What have you done? Mr. Chairman Excellent here blames us for not taking care of ourselves. We were in a government coalition together. Did I notice that the folks would perform and say, "We insist fundamentally on increasing the parental contribution"? There's no such thing! Or you didn't enforce it. We pushed for it! And I am asking you, President Stanjuro, through the President, Mr President Excellent through the President - what have you done? Nothing! We've been able to raise the parental allowance. It was our priority, we did it. Not for everyone, I'll take that, but for the vast majority. That's something. You didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u47	The following are factual points in this order. Mr Jurečka, President Stanjura, President Bartošek and Mr Holomčík. Mr. Jurečka has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u48	Thank you. Beautiful evening, dear colleagues. A few factual points to Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček. In our previous coalition government, we brought together families, thanks to the gradual increase in discounts on children, an extra 5.5 billion crowns a year. When there was a question for President Excellent, I was in that government. That's a specific answer. We corrected the injustice committed by the ODS-led government at the time of the crisis, and there we increased - please don't shout behind my back, I was talking about a joint coalition government where you were, too, if you had listened to me. Thank you. And we corrected the injustice committed by the government of Petr Nečas, who took a discount on her husband, the wife of the tradesmen who taxed on a flat-rate basis. We paid them back at least partially a year worth CZK 1.5 billion. There are two important things that have been returned to the families. Last year, Prime Minister Babiš said to the media in May: we found 8.6 billion. In the same year, Minister Klára Dostálová said: I found 10 billion crowns. Please, is it such a problem to find CZK 2.5 billion in the large budget? And I don't have a problem with us agreeing to this together so we don't feel bad about what was ten fifteen years ago. I wasn't here. I really don't care. I'm here at this moment to help those families, 75,000 families. Let's stop fighting about this, please. It is only CZK 2.5 billion in the total budget of CZK 1.6 trillion. Can't the government find that? We will be happy to support this if there is a need for legislative change in the area of the budget, which is not. You have the authority to find it. So please do nicely, and I don't have a problem with the Prime Minister coming in a week and saying, it was my idea, I invented it, the House supported it. My point is, are we able to help these families? It's not about who's gonna pick this up as their shirt, whether it's Secretary Maláčová or somebody else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u49	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u50	President Hamáček's speech was still missing, as it all worked well before 1989. And if he wants an excursion into the past - what have we done, Prime Minister Hamáček? We brought the Czech Republic to NATO. That's good, right? We have brought the Czech Republic into the European Union. That's good, right? I'm not saying we're alone. You asked what we did. We have transformed the Communist country into a normal democratic prosperous country. That's not enough. So there's no point in coming back and making excuses. Today, the debate is basically simple. If the secretary wanted it, she'd find the money in her budget. If the government wanted to, one pardon of spending will find it in its budget. Show me a government that is able to estimate the total cost of the state budget with an accuracy of one perm. That's not possible, and it's logical. That's not ten percent of the budget, that's not tens and tens of billions. It's just unfair. Go ahead and say it. We're going to the Constitutional Court. Let's see what the Constitutional Court has to say. You change the rules during the game. And 80,000 families have to pay for it. And it's not gonna be the 2.5 billion, by the way. You can't even count it properly. You're not able to count it properly. You keep changing the numbers. You know what the families think? That each of them gets an extra 80,000. That's how you sell it: 80,000 not for everyone, but for most. It's not even true! Then let's tell them openly. That's not even true, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Or is it? I don't think that's true. And now you're gonna count how many people we have at the gallery? Does that seem dignified to you? Doesn't seem dignified to me. You can't talk your way out of this. Yesterday you announced and the secretary happily asked to lower her ears today and asked us to vote differently than she wanted yesterday. And then you want respect?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u51	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, time. It is now Mr Bartošek's turn, followed by Mr Holomčík, then by Mr Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I'm listening to this debate, I feel like we're trapped in the old wrongs of each other's lives, what we didn't do back then, and we could, instead of dealing with today right now and here, what we can do for those families. Personally, I'm sorry, because those parents and families don't care what was here three years ago. Those families are wondering how we're gonna help them with the vote today. I can say for myself that I was a fan of social democracy. I, Madam Secretary, acknowledged your statement and appreciated it. Believe me, I'm not gonna be mad at you here. I'm just sorry. I'm the step and the expression you gave, I understood it, and I liked it. I'm just saying, I'm sorry because I believed that we would help social democracy in the vote. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u53	Thank you. Mr Holomčík, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u54	Thank you for the floor. Since you can't buy popcorn here, I'd like to say a few words. This argument isn't about whether or not there's money or not. The dispute that's going on here right now is that a small number of citizens in this country are getting something through official media, official channels have promised, and now they're just not gonna make it. That's the problem. We're dealing here, or not here right now, but in general, we're dealing with people's distrust of politics, people's distrust of politics, people's distrust of the state, people's distrust of democracy. And why is that? Well, for these exact reasons that people make promises, and things are promised that maybe they just don't go, or politicians don't want to do them. So let's stop promising people something we just don't want to keep.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u55	Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u56	I promise it's the last time today. But there were questions about what we did for families with children. Discounts on taxes, children's groups, shared jobs - that's all the work of this government, or those of the previous governments where we were with the YES movement. What did you do? And speaking of who's keeping his word here. Gentlemen and ladies who performed here in front of me, I apologize for bringing it back to the Ministry of the Interior. Go to the police maid and ask them how it was in 2010, 2011 and 2012, how you took their debts, how you reduced their salaries, how what was said and promised did not apply. They still remember it! And to this day, we're fixing it after you! They all know, at least in the security forces, as it was for you. And they're all praying you don't come back!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u57	We continue with factual remarks. President Vojtěch Filip, followed by President Kalousek, Stanjura and Mr Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u58	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I had not heard those words from those who really could have taken it apart where they could have stolen it, I would have believed it. But I haven't heard anything about a promise being made here in 2013 or 2014 that the government will increase the parental contribution. And if it doesn't take place until the moment the government got their trust here in July 2018, no one can put that promise ahead of the deadline. So let's not let the people of KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 or ODS bring these things up! Please, yes, public promise is public promise. And if anyone's keeping their word here, they're the ones who want what's been promised, and they don't have to be taken away next year, as you imagine, to sink the state budget. That's your point! Nothing else! And don't be mad at me, just one more little point. You know, this is where we're arguing about whether it's 70,000 people. President Stanjura here said it wasn't counted. Do you know how many families there are when on January 2nd the child will be four years old and the parents received only one year's allowance? Could this man have imagined that he would actually receive the contribution in 2020? And you've got that figured out? You don't count it! So don't lie here either! And if you're gonna blame anyone for keeping a word, just think about yourself!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u59	Thank you. President Kalousek will now speak with a point of fact, followed by President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u60	Thank you for the floor. You know, Minister Hamáček, through Mr President, and Vice-President Filip, when they write our political obituaries, which may be soon, let us argue with their authors about what they have done in the past, for what reasons and under what objective conditions. Now there's no point. Now, let's ask ourselves one question, if, at the moment we vote for the Senate or the House proposal, whether the Senate is more fair or if the House is so unfair that it's worth less than 2 billion, it's more than that it's not worth the less than 2 billion. Compared to the fact that the government has 100 billion higher revenues per year, compared to other spending priorities, whether they are subsidies to non-profit-making business entities, whether they are discounts on fare, they are simply marginal items. And I'm quite normally asking, do you want to be fair for less than 2 billion? If so, let's approve the Senate proposal. If you insist on being unfair from political prestige - because it can't be in the budget of 1.5 trillion, it's about political prestige - if you want to be unfair because of political prestige, it's your problem, but it's also your sin.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u61	Mr Jurečka's point of fact follows. Mrs Černochová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u62	Thank you. I have two factual points. I would like to ask President ČSSD Hamáček and Vice Prime Minister in one position, please nicely, let us try not to blame you now, from your mouth, as said here, what has ever done wrong by ODS towards firefighters, cops, because it is not an argument to defend the step when we do something wrong now after all. You won't want to listen in four years, if it's not the way you made a bad decision about families with young children here today. The argument is just weird, it's wrong. Because someone did something wrong six years ago, that's why I can do it wrong as a politician now? That doesn't exactly suit me. And please, nicely, you have, coalition government, written in your coalition program statement: "We commit ourselves to actively supporting working families with children through tax discounts." [[shows]] Those tax discounts since the end of our coalition government - KDU-ČSL, ČSSD and YES - you have not increased by a crown. It's still on the same level. I designed it here last year, the increase in discounts for children, for a third child, for a student child. You turned it down. I take this as a chance for a reparat, so if you don't increase the tax discounts that you have in your government's programming statement, so that we do it in this form, that we will really give the parents who have a child under the age of four what really belongs to them fair and square. And my point to President Filip, as the Communists keep their word. Well, we could have tried that when President Zápotocký spoke and promised that tax reform would certainly not be monetary reform. This, I think, has affected this entire nation quite significantly. And I could continue when the Communists held or didn't keep their word. So please, Mr President, don't comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u63	Mrs Černochová, with a factual point, followed by Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u64	Thank you. I'd like to ask Minister Hamáček to scream less and articulate better. That's one. Secondly, I wanted to ask the Minister here if he really considered the era of Minister Chovanec to be a successful era in the department he joined, because if you blame us, Minister, I think you should contact your colleague more, because for us those police officers at least had something to walk in, to ride in, and to be protected. I mean, ballistic protection that neither you nor your predecessor could solve, so cops wear vests that don't match ballistic protection. I don't think I'm saying anything new. The members of the Security Committee heard me last week when I wanted information on how Minister Hamáček will handle this because I really consider it essential. Minister, what have you done? You have proved that more than 800 police officers will be missing only in Prague by the end of 2019, including capacity and people such as Colonel Mareš. [[Strongly, very loudly.]] That's the result of your work!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u65	Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček, followed by Mr. Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u66	Okay. I will try to stick to the subject matter and speak more slowly so my colleague Černochová can understand me. And I'll start with her. So if you're referring to the changes in the Prague police and Colonel Mareš, maybe it would be worth the trouble of yelling at the microphone here, then meet those police officers from the Prague headquarters and ask them what it was like, and ask them if Colonel Mareš was tired and wasn't determined that after the decades he served with the police, he already wanted to do something else, and if the Prague police headquarters didn't offer him a job within the police. All you had to do was ask General Lerch or Mr. Police President, and maybe you didn't have to yell at me over the microphone. [[18.10 hours]] I appreciate Colonel Mareš's work, I'm glad that both the Prague Police Commissioner and the Police President tried to convince him to stay with the police, but he just didn't want to. And I can't convince someone who doesn't want to continue serving after spending the best years of his life in this state's service. And I think it's important that the police offer him another existence within the choir. We didn't dump him on the street. We took care of him. That's two. But I didn't want to perform for that, but I'm just responding to the lady's vest. Madam, I think it's pathetic! You know, if I'm up to something, my point is that the cops who are coming to the hit are equipped with all the equipment they need. And I didn't do the tender. I competed with the cars, and they have cars today, and we're gonna solve the ballistics too. But what my colleague Kalousek said. After each of us, there's something left. I'm gonna be left with those police cars, somebody left with those military chutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u67	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's point of fact, President Kováčik will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Basically, it seems that state social support has turned into a security issue. But it's basically provoked. I am very glad that it was said from Mr Jurečka's mouth that the reduction of police salaries by 10 per cent and the 15 per cent tax was the mistake of the then government. I am very pleased that this is the very policy that has been spoken out of my mouth. I would still like to hear that from the politicians who were with the government at the time. If they apologize to the security forces for that. For driving tens and hundreds of them to personal bankruptcy. Also, if there was a will and the money you took away from them by making a senseless tax on their claims, you'd ever pay them back. And only briefly to Mrs. Černochová. My colleague, we talked about ballistics on the last Security Committee. But you were there when Mr. Police President said that none of those vests that are problematic, which is considered a summons, are in direct effect and serve only for training purposes. It must also be said that the concept of ballistic protection was raised by me and former member of the ANO movement, Mr Chalupa, when we were intensively interested in this topic in 2015 as well as by you and forced the Ministry of the Interior, respectively. Police presidium process the concept of ballistic protection. And today, despite the peripetia with the shopping problems that the Minister is dealing with, we have more than 60 percent of the policemen who are already protected. Those are the real facts, and I'd like it to be heard here, too. But let's go back to state social support, because this is an important subject that we need to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u69	Chairman Kováčik, President Stanjura will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come from a parental contribution to all possible topics. I would, for example. could remind Mr. Jurečka that Tonda Zápotocký was not the first to use that trick. It was Alois Rašín. He just copied it from him. But I'm not gonna remind him, because it's not on the subject. If those little kids, three-year-olds, four-year-olds could understand and see and have the ability to judge how we argue here, they wouldn't give us a very good report card at all. I think we've already had enough fights, from shirts or, possibly, bulletproof vests, and there's nothing left to do but stand up to the subject as we should. So let's vote, it'll show what the elbow is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u71	Thank you. Before we vote, there are other colleagues and colleagues with factual remarks. President Stanjura, Mrs Černochová, Mr Klaus, President Kalousek and Mr Jurečka, in this order. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u72	I regret to say that the Home Secretary was quite successful in diverting attention. I'm really not ready to debate the salaries of police officers, firemen, vests, weapons, etc. at this point. I really don't. It is obvious that if there is no argument, if there are no arguments that could support the House's version against the Senate, then anything is searched for and goes to 2010, or to the first Republic or anywhere else. But that's basic, isn't it? Madam Secretary has failed, she hasn't been able to convince her own party, so don't take over what we're supposed to do. The secretary convinced us that her original proposal, and I'm not pretending that it was her original proposal to get everyone, I'm not covering it up, I'm gonna admit it honestly. If you want to hear it two more times, I'm willing to say it two more times. She convinced us, convinced the upper chamber - she didn't convince her own MPs. That's the side! First they choose her as Vice-President, and then they don't give a damn about her! That's weird, that's suspicious. And we're asking, "What's behind this?" And the only logical answer is that you're holding onto those chairs. The government. Don't be mad at me! There's nothing else logically we can think of. If the secretary screamed all the time, I won't give it to the families! He doesn't deserve it! - I'll understand what you're doing today. She was happy yesterday. And if she could convince her colleagues when she was unsuccessful, she'd do a press conference and say, "It's got a lot of fathers, but I'm the mother! [[Fun.]] Well, she'll probably be the mother of tens of thousands of families coming in short. I don't know if you're gonna do a press conference, Madam Secretary, but I would recommend it. Make a press conference today and say nice families! [[Announcement of the time to perform.]] I'll sign up one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u73	Mrs Černochová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u74	Thank you. To Mr. Ondráček through you. Yeah, that's what they said about the vests. On the other hand, the state has obviously suffered damage in the value of tens of millions of crowns. Because it is not possible for such purchased ballistic protection to be used only for training purposes. For tens of millions of crowns. One. Second, to Mr. Mareš. Minister, I don't think you've heard the Colonel's statement. The colonel publicly on Czech TV, perhaps elsewhere, said that the reasons for his departure are those that the heartscarers left the police and replaced the heartscarers with your managers. About what my colleague Ondráček said. Mr colleague through the Vice-President, I have apologized several times to members of both the security and armed congregations for their debts and explained to them that this measure was indeed inevitable during a time of crisis and should have only been valid for three years. It shouldn't have paid any longer. The fact that the government, the last one, canceled the tax service just before the end of the term of office, right before the election, probably says something. And believe me, and I think we both agree on this, that you and I have tried to propose better conditions for police officers here in plenary several times, especially financial ones, in order not to leave the police. At least in this respect, you and I can be in agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u75	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus, President Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u76	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We, as trikolóra, will support the Senate version. And as I'm following the debate, I'm getting the idea that there is a House coalition of the ČSSD - ODS - KDU that is interested in not adding anything to anyone and nothing at all has been approved as I'm watching the time. I can't explain it. I would urge you, Mr President, to take someone's word away from it when they talk about ballistic supplements, debts, whether it be a minister or a Member from your side, because it is not a matter of substance. Neither Zápotocký nor Rašín. By the way, Rašín only separated the Austrian currency from the Czech koruna, but it doesn't matter. [[18.20 hours]] And I would like to make one final remark on the speaker who spoke a little more rationally, Mr Stanjur, through you. I would always dismiss the threat to the courts. All power comes from the people, so we should follow it. If social democracy is voting wrong here today, the voters will, of course, add it up. And by threatening the courts, I would slow it down a little, because it's spreading in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u77	President Kalousek, Mr Jurečka after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u78	Thank you. I apologize for the short delay, but I cannot ignore the mention of the parachute that the first Deputy Prime Minister has made of this place. Mr. First Vice-President Hamáček, at the moment you ran out of arguments, you dropped to repeat 21 years of perverted slander. Extraordinarily vulgar rumors, although clearly refuted by a detailed investigation, are just as often repeated by the pirate party on the electoral bus, the Prime Minister on a live broadcast from this place. I'm not going to take these lies, these dirty rumors, and I'm strongly opposed to them. I don't want an apology from you. You're not worth it. That's what I'm suing your master for. But you could at least be ashamed, at least remembering that you used to be a man!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u79	Mr Jurečka, Mr Skopeček, Mr Birke and Mr Hamáček will have factual points in that order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u80	Thank you. I have two factual points. The really unfair lie of Mr Ondráček's fellow Member. Let him look at the tapestry and show me when I said here that I agree that there have been taxes on the debts and the salaries of police officers have been reduced. Show me, colleague. I never said that here. And I wasn't in politics at the time, KDU-ČSL wasn't in government at the time. And I was a member of the government, adding money to police officers and the integrated rescue systems in general over the years, increasing their salaries, and I also actively voted in favour. And the second thing about Mr Klaus through Mr President. Dear Member, I am here today primarily as an MP who forms a coalition for the family, a coalition that wants 75 thousand parents who care for their children properly, and families, if they have two or more children today, have the lowest average per capita income, lower than the average pension in the Czech Republic, almost CZK 4,000, so they want to help them in their situation because those people deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u81	Thank you. Mr Skopeček's point of fact follows. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u82	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to Mr Kováčik through you. I want to stand up for Alois Rašín, to whom we owe our thanks for having the Czech crown. It has not been so long since this House has adopted a resolution in which we express this respect. I find it absolutely incredible to link Alois Rašín to one of the greatest communist crimes that was monetary reform. Shame on you, Congressman!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u83	Mr Birke, who is currently the last to be logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, it's generally known that I'm gonna set it up again and bring back a bunch of techs, but I'm not gonna do it that way. Trust me. I could also blame my mother for being a maiden and everyone and what happened 10 years ago and 15 years ago... And I'm just not gonna do it. [[Shortly silenced, the phone ringing from the finance secretary suddenly echoes into silence. Laughs in the hall.]] I don't know if it was an assassination or a reaction to what I said. [[Someone screamed from the diaper, it's ringing off!]] You know, I want to ask you all, let's make a right, let's make a left, on Wednesday, please, let's vote. This isn't going anywhere. I repeat, it's not about who started, who didn't start, the debate is going nowhere, it's not moving anywhere, it's getting personal, if you're enjoying it, all of you... Forgive me, we may not enjoy it, or most of us in this House, it is just pushed by a few individuals, and it leads nowhere. If I can ask you on my behalf despite the fact that social democracy here is the greatest evil, then I as Jan Birke, the Social Democrat, please, let us vote and end this debate that is not going anywhere. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u85	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? Mr. Senator is interested in the final word. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, I won't keep you long, it is not my goal. I would just like to appeal to this and point out that support for families and whether money is found in the state budget is just a matter of priorities. Please choose family priority, support families. During the debate in the Senate, a senator spoke for YES and said that the debate in the Senate convinced her that she would vote differently than the ANO movement. I would like to ask all the members of the ANO movement to find the same courage as this senator and support the Senate's amendment. Thank you. Don't throw those families overboard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u87	Thank you, Senator. Madam Secretary is not interested in the final vote, so we will proceed to the vote. I have summoned Members who are not in the Chamber. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. [[Some Members tap the desks with their cards.]] I hear a request for a check-out, I've checked you all out, please sign up again with your voting cards. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, according to the House's Press 490/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the House's Press 490/6. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 363, 179 Members registered, for 79, against 4. The motion was not accepted. We have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. And we will vote again, in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. We have the necessary number of votes set. So I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, as amended, in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to the House's Press 490/5. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 364, 187 Members signed in for 186, against no one. I state that we have adopted the bill. I am done discussing this point and passing on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-003-298.u88	Have a good evening. I'll read an apology. From 17.45 to the end of the day, Ms Monika Jarošová apologizes for reasons of work. And now we're going to move on to the next press. This is about
