ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u1	35. Government bill amending Act No. 565/1990 Coll., on Local Charges, as amended /German Press 286 - First Reading On behalf of the government, it was originally intended to present the proposal of Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, but I have here from Prime Minister Andrej Babiš a letter saying that the Minister will be represented by Minister of Regional Development Klára Dostálová. And I'm gonna ask her to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u2	Mr President, colleagues, let me briefly mention the government bill amending the law on local charges, as amended. Reasons for submission: It was necessary to cover the area of the rapidly expanding so-called shared economy in the area of accommodation, which will be done thanks to a new stay fee, which will replace the existing spa or recreation fees and accommodation capacity. It will now be possible to introduce a fee for any municipality without any link to the presence of a spa or increased tourism. The fee will be charged for any short-term paid stay regardless of the type and destination of the place where it is provided, i.e. next to hotels, motels and guesthouses, also in private apartments and studios. The maximum limit for the amount of the fee is proposed to CZK 21, because today it is basically CZK 16 and CZK 5, which means 21, so this limit has been maintained, with municipalities being able to increase this fee up to CZK 50 from 2020. This is a response to the fact that the amount of the spa or recreational stay fee has not changed for more than 25 years. In so doing, the specific amount of the fee up to this maximum limit shall always be determined by the individual municipality in a generally binding decree. This means that if, of course, the municipality wants to have lively tourism on its territory and it hasn't had so much so far, it can, of course, set a zero by its decree. It's really for the decision of a particular community. The implementation of the necessary partial changes in response to the requirements of practice, the elimination of uncertainties and hardness, through a more precise definition of exempted persons and the relief from the fee from dogs, where all persons operating dog shelters, regardless of their founder, and the existing relief for persons whose sole source of income was an old-age, widowed and widowed or disabled pension, will be replaced by a relief for all persons over 65 years of age and the exemption of persons holding a ZTP licence. Only ZTP/P has been released so far. Introduction of the anti-abuse clause on the charges for the use of public space and admission charges. Newly, the condition for exemption from the charge will be that the proceeds of the event were actually paid for charity purposes, not simply a statement that it is intended for these purposes. So much for the changes that led us to do, because we prepared this amendment in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development, and it was precisely in view of the fact that we are actually experiencing a phenomenon of a shared economy, and it was necessary to respond to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u3	Thank you. And I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Roman Onderka. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u4	Dear Vice-President, members of the Government, colleagues, the Minister has told us why this amendment is actually taking place. It needs to be realized that this is really a proposal that regulates our law, which is historically very outdated. And outdated not only in the structure of legislation, but outdated with regard to today. Shared economy, Airbnb, has been mentioned here. The biggest impact is in Prague, in spa towns, tourist destinations. The bigger ones, but also in smaller statutory cities. From this point of view, I consider this law to be very important. It is also important that the newly created fees can be dealt with by all municipalities in the Czech Republic without any exception. The amount, which in the first phase will combine the amount of CZK 21 from the two fees existing, means 16 and 5 CZK, so it can be increased in the future, or it is expected to be increased to CZK 50. And I am already registering amendments today from honored colleagues from the pirate party on the increase in some destinations, where the accommodation is diametrically more expensive than other municipalities in the Czech Republic. If we talk about the 1990 Law, it will certainly not be the only amendment, the amendments will be several. I am registering other amendments that are considering dealing with the collection of fees by one administrator, which could be an electronic portal. Everything is evolving in some way and in the 21st century it really is necessary to find a solution. But of course, in some way, legal enforcement must not be denied subsequently by those fees when they are not paid, i.e. the payer and the administrator must be clear and understandable. [[15.50 hours]] Consider that this is a fiscal charge. That's the most important thing. This means that it is clear and understandable how much money the community collects for the service. Everything else is a secondary matter. Another amendment that we will hear about at the following readings and when we discuss the committee will be the amendment that I had the audacity to put forward personally, and that is the exemption of these charges for such things as for example. actions of falcons, pioneer camps and other things, i.e. suburban camps, etc., which are expensive to children, i.e. minors, this part of educational activity, which mostly develops in the summer months and in my opinion would be useless (?). [[from]] Of course, it will also touch on issues that affect social events, i.e. actions related to health, disability, etc. The Minister also touched on the secondary matters, one might say which were regulated in the law, i.e. e.g. matters affecting dogs, i.e. the liberation of shelters, subsequently the unification of legislative elements as such. As rapporteur for this amendment, I would like to thank the Ministry for having made an amendment that is readable, which is understandable and which, I think, is very likely to go through a minimum of changes subsequently to second and third reading, including in committee discussions. I would like to propose, at the outset, the release for second reading and subsequently the inclusion in the guarantee committee as a budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u5	So I hereby open the general debate in which I have, well, two applications, but one priority, so Mr Michálek, chairman of the Pirates Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear colleagues, I support the proposal as a whole, as submitted by the Ministry of Finance, but on one point I have an opinion that this proposal is a real response or a real solution to the issue of shared accommodation. This proposal does not address anything at all about shared accommodation. It merely introduces the possibility that a digital platform, if it so decides on its own, can decide voluntarily to collect its own fees and enter into a tax regime. In fact, while those platforms are promising it and promising it, I do not know many examples where they would voluntarily impose these obligations on themselves that they would have to communicate with the tax administration in this stricter regime. So we want Airbnb to be dealt with really as part of the discussion of this proposal, in order to deal with the problems raised by city center residents such as Prague, Prague 1, where basically houses change into hotels and brings about a large number of tourists who constantly walk around the house and sometimes cause some mischief and make life difficult for the residents of the house. There it would be appropriate to discuss some kind of rapid solution, not administrative interventions by the state, but for example. a judicial solution to this matter if it occurs by doing business in the apartment to repeatedly disturb the order in the house. Because that's the right for people to sleep and live in peace, just according to the Constitution. Another thing that is poorly or inadequately addressed in that law is that there is no distinction at all between an accommodation contract where it is a rental contract, these are certain private matters which are being used to circumvent the standard tax regime. There is a lack of definition of what boundaries this is no longer a shared economy, but from what boundaries it is a business. This should be clearly stated in the law, because then, of course, it also has a tax convention. We've got complaints from a community of unit owners who, according to today's legislation, won't even know that someone is renting the apartment to Airbnb in their house. So here I think we should also strengthen their right to at least know that the apartment is being used for business by providing accommodation. There's a flaw in the billing order where it's written so wrong in that default position that if you're counting the services for the whole house, so when someone rents it using Airbnb, they don't have to pay at all because there are no people who would stay there for more than 60 days. Of course, they can approve this by way of derogation, but I think the law should adequately address it in that basic setting. Well, the last thing is the problems faced by big cities, especially Prague, Brno and others, who encounter tax evasion for a stay fee, because a substantial part of those who provide accommodation in this form does not pay a fee, which is unfair to those who, of course, take it away. There was therefore an initiative to collect the fee directly from the digital platform, as is the case in some countries abroad. It would be good to have effective leverage to negotiate with these digital platforms. So we are going to put forward an amendment that will introduce the possibility of concluding an agreement with the digital platform - we are particularly concerned with major city centres such as Prague - so that the digital platform directly carries out the fee. And if the platform does not want to cooperate and there will continue to be a significant number of those who do not pay the fees and thus cause tax evasion on the fee of CZK 120 million, for example in the case of the capital city of Prague every year, so that the Ministry of Finance can decide that the digital platform will simply pay the fee. I think that if we were able to shift the charge obligation to that digital platform, we would also help entrepreneurs who use the apartment to rent in this way, because they would not have to go and report to three different authorities, whether it's the city section, the foreign police, the management of the guest book and x other things that can be automated nowadays. So these are all things that we would like to deal with so that the administration will eventually be reduced for the entrepreneurs who are using Airbnb to make the proposal acceptable to them and to them in a better direction. We will read the proposals within the relevant committees and I would like you to support them, because this issue has been discussed a lot in the municipal campaign here in Prague 1, where the Chamber of Deputies is based. That was a big issue, all the political parties were talking about it, so now we have a real opportunity to show that we want to do something about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u7	Next in line, Mr Ondřej Veselý, and Mr Martin Baxa will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll pick up where my previous speaker ended up. I have to say, like him, I generally agree with the principle of the law. I admit there's a need for change. Indeed, the time has been very long since the last adjustment, and the law has remained somewhat archaic. However, I also see a problem here which I have decided to adapt to the amendment, which is read under number 2135. The problem concerns long-term accommodation in hostels. According to this current adjustment it would no longer be possible to collect the accommodation fee. Spa fee in long-term hostels. I understand that this may not cause problems for recreational destinations. On the other hand, there are a number of cities and municipalities, and there are most of them that do not have hotel and guesthouse-type accommodation capacities, and the most important part of this fee is the hostel, most often working hostels. And if we didn't collect the fee from the residential hotels, there would be a problem that the fee wouldn't actually be paid in the municipalities and cities, because the withdrawal would be insufficient to pay the official who's involved. So I am reading the amendment, which, of course, I will then read in second reading properly, which will be adapted to this. Otherwise, to distract the concern that was here, it does not concern student stays in dorms and various boarding schools, they are excluded if you look at the amendment. This means that the only adjustment there is to continue to be charged from the hostels, with this being significantly reduced for social reasons against the proposal that is in the law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u9	Next to the general debate and last so far, Mr Martin Baxa. I'm not registering another application yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u10	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to comment briefly on the proposal that was made here. I would like to start by saying that not only me, but also the Civic Democratic Party Club supports the proposal to proceed to second reading, because it brings clearly positive changes in some fundamental principles, whether it be the unification of fees and, in particular, their above. It is absurd that in legislation we have the amount of the fee that has not changed for decades, and it is clear that in cities that have greater tourism, and now I do not only mean Prague, this plays a role, because in any case, compared to the situation before 1989, tourism has obviously increased significantly, and I, as mayor or mayor of the city, which has recorded a dramatic increase in tourism in recent years, so I am clearly confirming this, and we see that the way in which municipalities and cities have to cope, for example, with the effects of increased tourism, does not correspond at all to what has so far been collected for these fees, for so-called. spa and recreation fee. So, in this respect, the proposal is certainly correct and the principle that it is heading fills in so that municipalities and cities have the opportunity to compensate to a greater extent for what is caused, for example, by increased tourism. I do not want to express myself in more detail on the issue of accommodation through digital platforms. This is a matter which, I think, is mainly limited to the capital city of Prague, possibly to Brno and some others. It is not such a major problem for me in my city, in the city of Pilsen, but, and thus I will follow up on Mr Veselý's contribution to Mr Veselý's contribution, to which I would definitely like to draw attention, is to set a maximum period of 60 days, because this is also a very significant change compared to the existing legislation, and she seems, at first sight, logically, in relation to what is the average time of accommodation in the classical hotel, in the guesthouse for the purpose of tourism, but I think that in this bill, as it is presented, it is not almost at all stressed that it also applies to the so-called. hostels. It's a special matter. And I am aware that this does not apply to all municipalities in general, not only at all, but also to cities in the Czech Republic, but very much to the city of Pilsen or in general to cities in our region, which is adjacent to neighbouring Bavaria and where, in connection with the dramatic growth of the economy in recent years, the number of employees used by individual companies through personnel agencies has grown massively, and these employees live in these so-called. hostels. The priority of this law is that he would allow us, if it were adopted unchanged, to have the opportunity to charge accommodation outside the so-called "city" as representatives of cities and municipalities. housed hostels. We can currently charge a stay fee or an existing fee actually from co-financed hostels, currently expanding, but ladies and gentlemen, in our city works - we have 170 thousand residents and currently work there about 17,000 agency employees who reside somewhere. And so if we were to say that the upper limit from which the new stay fee can be levied, or the time limit, is 60 days, in this situation you are actually no longer able to obtain at least some small compensation for what accommodation in the hostels means for our city and other cities in which this problem exists. The costs related to this are very high. They relate to the disposal of municipal waste, the use of urban services. It's a very broad topic that doesn't belong directly at this point, but I'm specifically drawing attention to this 60-day border right here. If there was a petitioner here, Madam Secretary of Finance, I would certainly ask her, possibly, Madam Secretary, you, to explain why the 60 days were there, what the reason was. I may have misheard it at the beginning, but for what reason did 60 days appear there? And I support, in this sense, the fundamental direction that Mr Veselý has put forward here and which responds to this fact. Mr Veselý's proposal is helpful in the fact that, if I am not mistaken, the amount of the fee that the municipality can collect from accommodations in residential hotels falls over 60 days, but there is a possibility, which is not the current version. So I would like to conclude by saying that, in principle, we support this law. It solves the problem that has not been solved here in the long run - the merger of fees, the increase in the rate - but I draw attention to the special part that concerns the residential hotels, which serve for agency employees in cities such as the city of Pilsen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u11	Thank you, too. Good evening, everyone. I have a note here. Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes to us from today's meeting from 17:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. I don't have any more comments here at the moment, nor an entry into the debate, nor does it look like anybody's coming forward, so I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary is interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to answer some questions. Otherwise, of course, I understand that we will discuss all the suggestions and topics in the committees. It is only possible to begin by saying that the really spa fee and accommodation fee have always served primarily as tourist tax. Of course, this principle must also be left to the law. If, of course, we start to deal with completely different charges, it really changes the nature of the law a little bit, and it should therefore take place in some deeper debate, because if we are here to suggest that through this law we are going to open the Civil Code, etc., I do not think that we really can do so by amendments and that we should discuss this in more detail. Those 60 days are just talking about short-term tourist destinations. This means there was a big debate because it is precisely that it does not concern residential hotels, because it is a maximum of 60 days, so it was also respected that it will not concern children on the tracks, which, of course, during the summer holidays leave the dormitories, then it is offered as a tourist destination, but then the children return there again. There was a debate here about who actually pays to whom, so only here would I recommend to the House really § 3f, where it is clearly written that the payer is obliged to collect a fee from the taxpayer and the payer is the provider of a bribery stay. That means, if we have a shared economy, of course the host will pay Airbnb or other platforms, there's really a lot of other digital platforms here, and they're going to charge it. So there's still a need to bring it together in these things. I've already talked about the Civil Code. And once again, as far as the residential hotels are concerned, it was really respected not to touch the people who are in that place for work or just the children on the dorms, but, of course, it will be subject to further debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u13	Thank you, too. There were three factual points. Unfortunately, we're in the final words, so I can't give any more room for factual comments. The rapporteur is interested in the final word. Please. If so, one of the ministers could reopen the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u14	Vice-President, fellow Members, I hope not, and I think I will find a majority consensus on plenary. [[He's laughing.]] To my colleagues. Honored colleague Baxa and colleague Veselý, through Mr President, mentioned the accommodation, the hostel itself and the request for their extension. I have noted this request, I am sure we will discuss this in the Committee on Budgets during the discussion of this amendment, but it is necessary to realise that it is indeed, as the Minister has announced here, a fee which is of a tourist nature. It's a fiscal issue, purely fiscal. And that through this fiscal issue, we are dealing with some 20-30 percent of the problem of a shared economy, today called Airbnb, that's another thing. [[16.10 hours]] But it is necessary to realize that we are really talking about a legal standard, which is from 1990, which is outdated, which told us in some way and responded to the period after 1989, and we are trying to a) unite the fee, clearly define it, where it is maximum, so that municipalities can issue in the form of a decree, what the amount will be, to adjust it according to their needs, because something else is the statutory city of Plzeň and something else is the capital of Prague, surely something else is needed by the statutory city of Olomouc, not to mention other municipalities. So from this point of view, I'm sure the conditions, and especially the tourism that it mostly affects, are certainly completely different. Another of my previous speakers was talking about a chapter that is more about the Civil Code, that is, accommodation. There it must be said that the subject of the fee is deliberately paid to provide a stay and not accommodation. There we really need to look a little bit at the Civil Code, because the accommodation provided under the Civil Code is one of the forms of paid residence provision, but the subject of the fee is to be wider and to include the disguised forms of accommodation provided formally on the basis of a rental or other contract. On top of that, Airbnb has one more detail, which means the shared economy, and we have already discussed this with my colleague Ferjenčík through Mr President with regard to the pirate amendment, which is already in the system today, if I am not mistaken. So there you have to say that payment as such, if through the so-called third - in this case legal - person, that means, for example, that the Booking company or someone such would ensure payment for those - in quotation marks, I stress - tradesmen, that is, those who provide the short stay, so it is a beautiful idea, but with regard to the enforcement of law, where these foreign companies are mostly based outside the Czech Republic, even outside the European Union, it is very complicated. Even in this law, it is necessary to clearly define the taxpayer, to clearly define the tax administrator, better to say the taxes. From this point of view, I'm a little skeptical, but that's not my role here as rapporteur. I just want to point out to my colleagues, as they have said, that we are taking all these amendments into account and that we will certainly be dealing with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u15	Thank you, too. We have a note from Mr Pávek, who apologizes to us because of a doctor's visit between 16.00 and 16.30. And since it does not look like anyone could open up a debate and, as far as I know, there are no proposals that we should be voting on now, then we will be dealing with the motion on the commandments of committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u16	Since this proposal is directly linked to the business environment, I propose an economic committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u17	So you're suggesting next. Thank you. So that's the economic proposal next. We'll take that into account later. I'd rather ask again if there is any - yes, Mr. Ambassador, for the next one, so please wait. Okay, so now we're going to vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. If no one is against it, I will continue to engage so that colleagues on the outside may be aware that we will be voting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of assigning the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 126 vote, 178 Members and Members were enrolled, for 139, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. I'm asking who has the suggestions for the next committee. Mr Veselý was the first, then Mrs Mračková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since the revenue from local charges is a vital income for local authorities, I suggest that another committee be a committee for local government and regional development, a VVVR or whatever its name is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u19	Thank you. And now, please, Madame Mračková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u20	I had the exact same proposal to order this, and I will say it correctly, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u21	Thank you. Mr. Michálek yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u22	Thank you. I briefly discussed this with Mr. Chairman Benda. Since the proposal concerns Airbnb, and in relation to Airbnb, at least in my opinion, there is a need to address certain neighbourly relations and matters relating to civil law, I suggest that the next committee be a constitutional committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-022-035.u23	Yes, I'm recording, that's the third draft. Does anyone else have a proposal for another committee? If not, I'll sum it up. There is a proposal for an Economic Committee, a Committee on Public Government and Regional Development and a Committee on Constitutional Law. We will vote on them in this order. So first, we will vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as the next committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 127, 178 Members and Members are registered, for 83, against 17. The motion was not accepted. Next, we will vote on the appointment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as the next Committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 128, 178 Members and Members are registered, for 134, against 1. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on assigning the Constitutional Legal Committee to the next committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 129 vote, 179 Members and Members are registered, for 68, against 29. The motion was not accepted again. So I note that we have only assigned the proposal to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as the next committee. This concludes the discussion at this reading because other voting proposals did not come to an end. We'll meet at second reading on the proposal. The next point here is point 38, which is
