ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u1	317. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 35th meeting, a total of 17 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have seven more responses to the written interpelations to discuss today. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which is to say that, if the Interpelling Member is not present at the meeting of the House, no debate shall be held in response to its interpellation, the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it. We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. First of all, there is the interpelation of Mrs Věra Kovářová to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on the Senate resolution on duplication of controls. This has been interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, so we will not open this interview. Similarly, there is an interpellation of Mr Radek Holomčík in the case of the procedure of the Ministry of Environment in the case of gravel mining near the municipality of Moravský Písek, it is the House press 587, which was interrupted into the presence of the Minister of the Environment. The Minister is here, so I give the Member the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I sent -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u3	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. We have already started the interview negotiations and it would be appropriate for this to take place in a reasonable calm. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u4	Thank you. At the beginning of August of this year, I sent a written interview to Minister Brabco concerning the Ministry of Environment's procedure in the case of the authorisation of gravel sand extraction in Hodonín district or south Moravia. It is a matter that I have been engaged in for a long time, and I find in the procedure not only the Ministry of the Environment - I will talk about it - a number of shortcomings. Just to sum up, so you know exactly what's going on. Between the villages of Moravian Písek and Uherský Ostroh in the south of Moravia, on the border of the South Moravian and Zlín region, it has been some 12 years, perhaps a little longer, it is a permit to mine gravel sand. There wouldn't be anything special about it, nor would we be talking about it here, if the potential recovery area wasn't just a few hundred meters from the Bzenec complex, which is a strategic source of drinking water for nearly 140 000 people in 57 municipalities in one of the country's most dry regions. I'll start a little light. As this thing goes on, and there were two hearings in the Senate, so there were various speculations. And some of these speculations also involve some motivation for people - my lady, and now former mayor of Moravian Písek, Mrs Habartová, who has been involved in this long-term, but also for example the Hodonín waterworks, which are also engaged in this matter for a long time because it is the water that this company is supplying to citizens. That's how there's speculation about motivation, why we're doing this. [[9.10 hours]] I'll show you this thing here. [[It shows a bottle of muddy water.]] At the end of my speech, I will give it to the Minister as such. This is our motivation. According to the data, the information we have at our disposal is threatening to run out of water in the kitchen. In a glass, if you want a drink, we'll give you this water. It reminds me a little bit of the scene from the Simpson show where when they asked if drinking water was flowing in Springfield, they were answered by a poem: When it's brown, you can drink when it's black, it can rot. I'd hate to learn a poem like this, virtually. used it in practice. So that's for the introduction. I, as I have already said, submitted this interpelation in August of this year, and a moment before, although we did not notice it until then, the Office of the Public Protector of Rights, which published a report at the end of July of this year on an own-initiative investigation on the progress of the authorities on this issue, also entered into the case. I mean, to be fair, I'm not just talking about the Ministry of the Environment's procedure, but also about the other bodies that the Ministry of the Environment has no influence on. I'm not gonna read the whole thing, it's got about 16 pages, the ombudswoman's findings in relation to the authorities' progress could be summed up in two words - all wrong. But I will only read the conclusions that are summarised here. So a summary of the conclusions. In October 2018, I decided to initiate an own-initiative investigation pursuant to Section 9 (b). (d) the Act on the Ombudsman. The investigation focused primarily on the following problem areas: (1) the participation of all the really concerned entities - the authorities - in the proceedings, the problem of the overlap with the two regions of the municipalities concerned and the scope for their hearing in the course of the present project; and the point of contradiction in the underlyings so far gathered concerning the possibility of implementing projects, the risk of contamination of drinking water and compliance with the objectives and objectives of territorial planning, including taking into account a gentle approach to the use of raw materials, i.e. the concept of extraction. [[2]] I found shortcomings in the procedures of the District Mining Authority for the territories of the regions of South Moravian and Zlínský, the Regional Authority of the Zlín Region and the public health protection authorities, the Ministry of Health and the Regional Hygiene Station of the Zlín Region. In particular, these authorities contributed significantly by their procedures to the illegal exclusion of the South Moravian Region authorities from the procedure for the establishment of the Uherský Ostroh conquering area. The intention is situated just at the border with the South Moravian Region, where the key potential adverse consequences of its implementation may primarily be directed, including the threat of the water source Bzenec-komplex. In the management of the District Mining Authority on the establishment of a period space there is no binding opinion of the Regional Hygiene Station of the South Moravian Region as the body concerned in the area of public health protection, which makes an illegal decision of the District Mining Authority. I also came to the conclusion that the mining plan is subject to the approval of the Water Authority, especially when the decision to set up a period zone is the equivalent of territorial decision making under the Mining Act. It is also undoubtedly important to align the intention with the planning aspects, where, in turn, the agreed binding position of the zoning authorities is lacking. The derogation from the protected area of natural accumulation of water granted by the Ministry of the Environment, where prior approval of the government is foreseen, which according to available information has not yet been given, appears to be questionable. In the procedure for setting up the Uherský Ostroh mining area led by the District Mining Authority, there was thus no room for the protection of public interests in the form guaranteed by the law, i.e. the absence of the necessary binding opinions, consents or exceptions which would only allow the intention to agree. I also consider their effective resignation to the precautionary principle as a serious deficiency in the procedure of the authorities. They justify the need for extraction vaguely, without the necessary careful weighing of the risk of mining in the locality and in conjunction with the possibilities of using other bearings. The climate development of recent years calls for priority to be given to the interests of the protection of ground water, so a solution consisting of the use of bearings that does not pose a potential threat to the strategic public interest cannot be preferred. In my opinion, this should have been achieved by all preparatory procedures relating to the intention in the form of present policies and planning documentation or environmental impact assessment processes. The authorities, in the case of a project that is clearly beyond the limits of the region, cannot rely solely on the conceptual materials of one region. I consider the current public administration procedure, including the results of the EIA procedure of the Ministry of Environment to be insufficient. The EIA process of the Ministry of the Environment to the project completed by a serious opinion, namely the consent of 9 March 2015, the agreed binding opinion on the verification of compliance of 26 October 2015, the agreed binding opinion on the verification of the amendments of 10 May 2018, which forms the basic starting platform to which the precautionary principle must be reflected, inter alia, because it can save a number of further procedural procedures. I will not read it further, just to explain why regional sanitation is mentioned there, I would say that in the past the Regional Hygiene Administration of the South Moravian Region, on whose territory the water source lies, has spoken about the process. [[Station]] This administration issued a negative opinion, after which the Ministry of Health also responded in Sobotkův's government by simply repealing this decision, the Regional Hygiene Administration of the South Moravian Region seized this authority and gave it to the Regional Hygiene Administration of the Zlín Region, which could not logically decide otherwise than to give a favourable opinion. [[Station]] But I don't blame Minister Brabco for that. When I sent the information, I asked the Minister nine questions about this case. Actually, I'm going to be discussing Question No in this interpellation. 3, this is how the Ministry of the Environment took account of the precautionary principle in its opinions. Now to grant itself or consent from the point of view of the EIA. On 8 September 2017, the Ministry of the Environment received a reply from the Czech Geological Service at its own request. The D.O.D. asked two questions back then. Does the documentation of the environmental impact of the project include any serious deficiencies, errors in the processing procedures or unacceptable generalisation of the conclusions, or has it been processed in sufficient quality and details proportionate to the area under consideration? Question No 2. Is the plan to mine gravel chips at Uherský Ostroh acceptable in relation to the Bzenec-komplex storage area, even with regard to the existence of new materials, provided that all measures are implemented to eliminate and minimise the risks listed as conditions of the EIA opinion? What did the Czech Geological Society say, sorry, service? As far as the first question is concerned, there is often an assessment that has been made by Progeo at the request of Vodody and Hodonín sewerage company. These conclusions are clear that this potential extraction can and will very likely endanger the quality of the water in the extraction area. The answer from the Czech Geological Service was: Currently provided model evaluation was based on the order of VaK Hodonín, a public limited company, with the aim of evaluating the flow of underground water in the Moravia Niva, in the wider vicinity of the Bzenec-komplex and increasing the overall relationship of locality knowledge. [[9.20 hours]] During the evaluation, a set of alternative models of groundwater flow in an interest location was created when applying the robust calibration methodology, where historical and current data and new measurements were found. Based on the results of the modeling, flow was determined through the bilanced profile, which indicates the importance of the flow of groundwater in the axis of the Hradiště ditch for water resources Bzenec-komplex. In order to verify the model evaluation, simulations are prepared for transient conditions of groundwater flow, with attention being paid to continuous data collection in the area. Thus, the conclusion of the Czech Geological Service was that Progeo's study is somehow relevant and needs to be taken into account. I'm mentioning the study here or the model because it's actually one of the main materials that is based on the claim that the EIA wasn't filed on the basis of relevant... or it wasn't done on the basis of relevant data. To the EIA itself, it was question number one whether the documentation of environmental impacts contains some serious shortcomings, errors and so on, part of the response of the Czech Geological Service is: As a result of the not quite specified input parameters and lack of calibration and validation of the mathematical model, Koppová's hydrogeological study of 2010 and 2012 had some inadequate interpretations, from the perspective of the current knowledge of 2017 it is possible to describe the following in particular. 1. Realities not corresponding to the interpretation of the Nový Moravia trough as a hydraulic barrier between the planned gravel pit and the removal area Bzenec III - north, which lies on its other shore. However, older observations and new modelling show that the New Moravia trough is more likely to be flooded by the flow of groundwater. As a result of the incorrect determination of the hydraulic function of Nový Moravia, the EIA process could not sufficiently identify the risk that the planned extraction of gravel chips could represent for the closest lying storage area of Bzenec III - North. 2. The size of the inculcated sources from New Moravia is significantly overvalued. However, the following assessments as well as the current model assessments show that the proportion of infiltrated water from New Moravia is bilaterally insignificant at an average annual sampling of 150 litres per second in the Bzenec complex. Especially in the spring period there is no subsidy of collectors with water from Nový Moravia at all and its entire flow has a drainage function. 3. From the previous point comes underestimating the importance of the hydrogeological structure of the Hradiště trench. In the axis of the Hradiště trench, however, a significant amount of underground water flows from the direction of the projected gravel pit in Bzenec-komplex. In view of the qualitative threat to groundwater, Koppová's hydrological study deals essentially only with the risks associated with degradeable petroleum substances. Risks associated with other substances that have been confirmed in the pet territory, such as fertilisers, pesticides, have not yet been evaluated. The issue of pollution has also not been addressed, which, given the position of the planned gravel plant in the active flood zone, can bring to the mining lake a possible flood during and at any time after mining. The results of mathematical modelling in almost seven years old hydrological study Koppová, respectively, differ quite significantly from the current model assessments, the most important conclusions of which are given above. It should be noted that these new evaluations are based on a well-worked mathematical model based on a thorough analysis of all available data, the collection of new field data and, last but not least, robust calibration, thereby significantly increasing the reliability of the forecasted ones. And the output of the Czech Geological Service, or the conclusion that describes or generalizes the two answers in some way, is as follows: The importance of the territory of the designed gravel plant for the water source Bzenec-komplex can be evaluated on the basis of the amount of water that flows through the area to the storage facilities - in this particular case it represents almost half of the collected amount of groundwater. Any gravel opener in the Uherský Ostroh mining area thus represents an increase in the number of already existing risks and other threats to the water source Bzenec-komplex. Given the strategic importance of the Bzenec-komplex for a large part of the South Moravian Region, any negative impact on this water source intended for the extraction of gravel sand and its consequences is clearly excluded. After studying the EIA documentation and in particular the hydrogeological study of Koppová, which is annexed to it, and after comparing it with the latest results of model evaluations carried out by Progeolze, the planned extraction of gravel sand represents a real risk for the Bzenec-komplex storage area, especially in terms of the negative impact on groundwater quality. The conditions for the implementation of the project laid down in the agreed binding opinion of the Ministry of the Environment of 9 March 2015 cannot eliminate these risks sufficiently from the point of view of currently available knowledge. For the above reasons, the Czech Geological Service cannot, in the sense of precautionary terms, identify the intention to mine gravel in the Uherský Ostroh period space from a hydrological point of view as acceptable. Several curious situations have occurred in the issue of granting or assessing before the consent of the EIA, which will certainly require separate interpelation. I'd mention two things. The method of analogy was used in the preparation. So I'm going to look at similar examples from around here, and if they're going to be okay, it's actually okay, in simple terms. So we're going to divide a whole series of these analogies, and I'm going to give you two. Not far from that place, from the conquering area, it is, I believe, 12 or 15 km towards the village of Polešovice, a similar mining takes place. As part of the processing of the documents, it was assessed whether there was also an influence on the source of drinking water, which according to the documentation is to be some 200, 300 meters from the period area. But there's really no source of drinking water. The nearest is more than three kilometers away. The second thing that worked with is the already existing lake south of the detachment facility. It wasn't said, so you don't mind here, and the potential second lake, which would be northeast, does it bother you? But in fact, it is that the existing lake is simply considered a real risk for water quality and the sediment quality that is at the bottom of the lake. The lake was built in 1992. It is precisely for the purpose of protecting these sources of water that mining was stopped at that site in order to avoid any threat. So we solve one risk by adding another. That's a really interesting procedure. Why did I mention the position of the Czech Geological Service? In an earlier interview I sent last year, I asked whether this opinion came to the decay committee, which - I am sorry, I will just see to it that I should say exactly - which on 23 March 2018 assessed VaK Hodonín's initiative to examine the binding position of the Ministry of Environment on the intention of extraction and its impact on the environment. The committee which assessed the complaint or the complaint referred to it as unfounded. And here is the material she evaluated at the request of the Ministry of Environment Czech Geological Service - what do you think? Did they have him at their disposal? Of course they didn't. So I don't understand why this document was created. It doesn't seem very credible, because it seems that the Czech Geological Service has said something that is not appropriate. And so this document was not taken into account at all, or the members of the commission did not make it available at all. I could still quote the Regional Hygiene Administration's position from these documents, but I'd be stalling for nothing. [[The station?]] [[9.30 hours]] So from the arguments that I have put forward, I consider the question of how the Ministry of the Environment took the precautionary principle into account in its opinions as unanswered, and therefore I would like to propose a disagreeable opinion with the reply to the written interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u5	Thank you. I've noticed the proposal. Before I give the floor to any other speaker in this already open debate, I will introduce you to your apologies. First of all, there is a cancellation of Mrs Rutová's apology, and so is Mrs Kořanová's apology, in the morning. Mrs Šafránková apologises from 9 to 11 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Koten from 11 o'clock until the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Farhan from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Antonín Staněk from 9 to 10 o'clock for reasons of work, Mrs Majerová Zahradníková from 9 to 11 o'clock for reasons of work, Minister Benešová apologises to us from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Pour apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mrs Pěnčíková apologizes from 14.30 to 19 o'clock for reasons of work, Ms GajdůGajdůšková apologises from 9 to 11 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Blažek apologises from 10 to 13 o'clock for reasons of work, and Mrs Rutová apologises from 14.30 to 19 o'clocks meeting in the electoral region. Well, hopefully that's all right. And I am now asking if anyone else is joining the debate, or the Minister, if he is interested in responding. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, thank you for the floor, Mr President. That might be my seventh interpelation, or my response to the interpelation. I already have a Hungarian Ostroh shamon. And I'm sure it's a good thing I have a shamon on him because he deserves it. I would like to say one thing at the beginning, which I think will make it quite interesting and so a bit of an answer to the sigh that Mr. Holomčík said here, that there is some speculation about his motivations. Well, that, too, my colleague, through you, Mr President. And I'm not happy about it either, but I can assure you that my interest is exactly the same as yours. But I'm in the more complex part of having some legal framework where I can move. This means, from the point of view of politics, if I were a politician who could actually influence it and was not a minister, which is a high civil servant in that sense, because the process is purely administrative, and you know that, moreover, has been repeatedly examined and will be definitively reviewed by the court. I think we both know that. It ends up in the Supreme Administrative Court like hundreds of other things. But we're getting a little bit, I think, co-workers, co-workers kind of feel like we're getting a little ridiculous right now when we're going to exchange expert arguments hydrogeological. By the way, maybe you know, I'm a geologist of origin, even a hydrogeologist of origin, and yet I wouldn't allow myself to put my opinion into it here, because there's been a thing that doesn't happen so often, but it's happened several times now, and the court decides that we have a few expert opinions, some of them - I don't know if there are four of them today - saying there's no problem, and three say that there might be a problem, or vice versa. But this is the kind of situation that just happened. And the whole thing when I completely simplify it, I say yes, I'm totally on the side of the water, clearly. That's why we've done a re-examination. It was several times in the decay committee, the last time about 14 days ago, or 10 days ago. I'll get to that in a minute. The decision of the Mining Authority to determine the period space has been reviewed, Mrs. Ombudsman put herself in it, and I have also given her a relatively detailed reply, and the answer is available. If you don't have it, I'd love to give it to you. We were talking about all that stuff, including PDOs. The problem is that, and you also know that we have just today the case law of the Supreme Administrative Court, which actually forbids me, because we actually tried something similar sometime in 2015 in relation to the airport of Vodochody, when we argued after issued by the EIA that there were no possible assessments of all aspects that were found then, after the release of the EIA, and the Supreme Administrative Court in 2016 concluded that, in such cases, the new information available after the release of the EIA cannot take into account the authority that issued the EIA, that is to say, take it back or in some way modify it, change it, but that it is obliged to give those data to the downstream authorities, in this case to the Mining Authority, and they are obliged to take them into account. And only within the framework of and under the amendment of the EIA Act, or the EIA Directive, in this case the Environmental Impact Act, so it is possible to challenge it in court and to request an examination in the context of follow-up proceedings. That is what is happening, and it will undoubtedly happen. At that point, we were given all the information that we received after the release of the EIA in 2015 - because the reports you refer to, including the Czech Geological Service, actually develop knowledge of the territory and were not available in 2015, when we published the EIA, and so we pointed out with these opinions, including ČGS and other things, that new information was available to take them into account as part of the establishment of the period space and, where appropriate, the determination of mining. This means that I do not have the legal option at this time to reopen the EIA from the perspective of new information, only there have been several re-examinations, and I can say in advance at this moment, because there is not yet a definitive statement by my decay committee from the point of view of the justification, but I can say at this moment that the decay committee at its meeting on 25 October this year, when the appeal arrived at it, confirmed the Ministry's procedure that it was correct in terms of the issue of the EIA and those follow-up proceedings. But they couldn't even say anything else, because - and I can assure you completely that my decay committee is completely independent and I've never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever done it, changed her decision or touched her in any way. She's really independent, I think she's made up of elite lawyers. And, of course, she expects her opinion, her decision will also be reviewed by the court somewhere. So that's what I think is obvious. That means we're in a bit of a paradoxical situation here, that in front of our colleagues and colleagues, we would actually argue about hydrogeological aspects and doubts whether we did or didn't. I don't think it's our place. That would put us in a situation that I don't think would be completely comfortable. But despite everything, I can assure you that undoubtedly never, and you don't really have to doubt the motivations, because I learned much later that this is some kind of Mr. Jampílek. I've never seen or talked to Mr. Jampílek in my life, and I don't think he's ever even written to me. And there was a real case where I too had some doubts, because it seemed strange to me that, at the same time, the detection procedure is being dealt with in parallel to the possible extension of mining to the existing gravel-sand bearing, but this is far from being given as much importance as the new intention in the region. And I've also heard about the competitive struggle of two companies, and I've also heard who's recording to whom in this competitive struggle. I think it's just nonsense from both sides. [[9.40 hours]] I have no doubt that neither do you, and please don't doubt that I have no other interest in this than, on the one hand, of course, defending the interests of the environment, but within some legal framework. Of course, if I were an unlimited autocrat today, I would not be bound by the European EIA directive and nothing, so I will just say clearly, there will be no mining there, because the water has priority, even if there is a percentage of doubt. But I don't have that option. The Bureau doesn't have it, it can really take the Mining Authority into account. And I say again, there are already so many subjects in this today that are going to review this with each other, and very probably when it certainly ends up with the Supreme Administrative Court. And I am also very curious to see how he will decide in this context and in the light of his case-law of 2016 towards Vodochody. Another problem with the EIA directive, and I have already talked about it several times, I often find myself in a situation where many mayors who do not want any intention on their territory swear that we have not allowed something, and, on the contrary, a whole series of mayors similarly accuse me that we have given something permission or simply the other way around. So this is the problem with the EIA directive that she can actually only take into account a matter relating to environmental effects or health, including some restrictive conditions, and cannot measure public interests. That's the first thing. Second thing. Unfortunately, I say for myself, unfortunately, he can't even take into account what the region wants. And in this context, and I've already mentioned it in some of my previous interventions, I'm just surprised how it is possible that - and if I'm not mistaken, it was the city of Uherský Ostroh, but I don't remember exactly, but I think so, which even sold part of the land to the miners on which the mining will develop. And I say, for God's sakes, if someone's interested in stopping the mining on their territory, they had the best chance, and that's not selling them land. Because at that point, there wouldn't be any mining. And that's something I don't understand. So it feels a little bit like someone has historically sold the land to the miners, and now they're looking for someone who's gonna ban the miners from mining, so it's not up to him. Forgive the simplification. You still asked... I am, I think, very much in this respect, the public defender of rights, and in the light of the precautionary measure. And once again, the problem is that when the EIA opinion was issued, we had a few opinions available, most of which were supportive of the intention, and then there was one negative, which is why we actually left the opponent hydrogeological opinion. This was from AQD-envitest, Mr Tylčer, who was to definitively confirm or refute the conclusions obtained from the EIA process, and we entered this opinion completely beyond legal obligations due to precautionary reasons and the opinion confirmed that the capture area of the Bzenec-komplex would not be threatened by the intention. And at this point, we've actually fulfilled the preliminary caution because we're above the legal framework, which means, you know, that there's an opinion, or that there's an EIA file that the applicant gives, then there's an assessment file, and we've still done an opponent's hydrological assessment, but all the other things were after the EIA's opinion. This means that today we are in a situation where I can review formally the correctness, and so did my decay committee, those decisions, but I can no longer interfere with the EIA. And undoubtedly this option will be again, and already it is being used, and then it can be simply reviewed, and it is possible that this position of the decay committee will, of course, be subjected to some examination of the court after that in the context of the follow-up proceedings. I'm sorry, I've been talking for a long time, so it's just a complete conclusion. There are still a number of remedies that, of course, they can make in the final - because, according to my information, today is also the District Mining Authority in a process where it re-examines the various permits, opinions that may have been issued by the Regional Authority and so on, so there are still a number of remedies that can be used. And for the Ministry of the Environment, I actually swear on oath that there was no other interest, that there was no doubt about independence, let's say, of the decision, and I think it will just prove it then by the court. Personally, I'm sorry, I'm always sorry when there's a permit for a purpose that people aren't happy with, especially in the water area. You know I really do a lot of watering, and I think we've done a lot for it, but in this case, I'm just bound by the law and I can't get out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u7	Thank you, too. The Member is interested in responding. In that case, I'll introduce you to the note first, and then I'll give him my word. Mr Lipavský apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mrs Valachová apologizes for all of today's negotiations for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister for his reply. I'll take the liberty of responding to some of the things he said. If the minister said he was only part hydrogeologist, I wasn't at all. And I certainly do not play an expert, which is why I am actually based on the materials of the Czech Geological Service, which I consider to be an impartial and professional organization, whose conclusions I can rely on with a clear conscience. So much for a comment. I take the argument and understand it with the case law of the Supreme Administrative Court in the case of any retroactive amendment to the EIA. What I don't understand all the time, even though I got the answer, was in the previous interpellation, why the decay commission didn't receive these documents from the Czech Geological Service in March 2018. And the second question. The minister spoke about the decomposing commission, which has now been meeting in the near past, so I would like to ask if this commission already had the documentation from the Czech Geological Service. That's a follow-up question. Now, in general, let's move this into the future. I think this thing, even though it's a little bit more complicated in time, points to one problem that I think should be brought together, and these are some rules for granting the EIA with some, say, strategic documents that we have. There is something like the National Action Plan for adaptation to climate change, which is some sort of summary of measures that we need to do to adapt and there is measure 1.1.1.7, which states that surface extraction will not be permitted in the forests of the rivers. And that's exactly the case. Rather, Minister, please consider, through the President, as some sort of glove cast, as a topic for discussion. I think that if the whole system of strategic documents and national action plans is supposed to make sense and it is not just a waste of money, I think it would be worth talking about the fact that in the future these measures, which are based on strategic documents, will be reflected in some way, for example in the preparation of EIA opinions. So much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u9	Thank you. The Minister will respond. Again some apologies have arrived: Mr Ferjenčík apologizes today for family reasons between 9.35 and 16.30, but I see him here, so apparently this apology does not apply, and Mrs Pekarová is apologizing between 9 and 11 hours for work reasons. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u10	Thank you. Well, now it's gonna be, I promise, more brief. I'll start from the end. I'm sure we are quite serious about this issue in relation to, for example, state policy or strategy on mineral resources, because just as a geologist, I can say that the vast majority of sand deposits, gravel sand, are in the old waters of rivers. That's just the way it is. This, of course, was mainly caused by sedimentation, mostly by river. So the problem is a little bit, but that is for colleagues, of course, from the MIT, and we are saying that if we were absolutely strict and said that anywhere where there is a risk, even if, say, some minimal risk of degradation of groundwater deposits linked to these collectors, or underground water collectors linked to this particular extraction, we could essentially block the extraction of all gravel sand deposits in the Czech Republic. Because she in the vast majority, or in the vast majority, is related to the possible collectors of groundwater, which is stored near or below them. That is why the EIA process is always unique and therefore it should always demonstrate whether there is any danger in this particular case. I guess we can agree that there's always a theoretical danger. And that's exactly what we're getting into, what's still bearable. And the bearable one is just assessing some limiting conditions for mining, which is part of, as I'm sure you know, the process. [[9.50 hours]] On your last question, I don't know exactly if the decay committee had this study at their disposal. I'm sure you do, but I don't really know for sure. But according to my information, the reason why the decay committee... she didn't have some others available, some were just for... Because the moment the EIA department actually gives a reason... It's also about what the decay committee will require for further evidence. And it's about her. That means she's really independent about this. And if he needs that information, of course he'll ask for it. According to my information, the CGS study did not essentially provide any new information, but merely summarized the results of the previous studies that the decay committee had at its disposal. That means she wasn't bringing in any new entry. But I say again, even if the decay committee had the last CGS study, as I believe it had the last one at its disposal right now, it could not mention the EIA's position. And that's it. We're still talking a little bit about whether there was a chicken or an egg before. And that's it. Even if they had her at their disposal now, they wouldn't have changed anything. But it's a theme for the District Mining Authority, and I'm sure it's available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u11	Thank you. I'll try to fix my previous apology reading. Mr Ferjenčík therefore apologized for family reasons until 9.35 and then from 16.30 to the end of the day. I see no one else is reporting for the debate. I'm done with the conversation. I'll just ask Mr. Holomčík if he insists on his negative... Yes. So we're voting to disagree with the answer. There's a checkout request. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. [[Gong.]] Please sign up with your cards. When the number of applicants is settled, we will possibly vote if we reach the kvora. Looks like there's still not enough of us. However, other Members are still coming. We'll wait a little longer. For those who have arrived only now, I will repeat that we are to vote against the reply to Mr Holomčík's written interpelation. And it looks like there's enough of us. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. 74 Members and Members were voted in favour of 27, against 37. The motion was not accepted. That's what we've dealt with and we'll move on. There is also an interpelation of Mrs Věra Kovářová to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on an empty chair at the Constitutional Court. Interpelation is interrupted to the Prime Minister's presence, so we won't even open it. Then there is the interpelation of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček on the alleged sale of the spa house Mercur in Mariánské Lázně, which is also interrupted by the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, who is absent and excused. This brings us to an interview by Mr Jan Lipavský on preparations of the Czech Republic for the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union in 2022. It's the House Press 619. I am opening the debate and, please, Mr Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, thank you for the floor. I pre-arrange that I will request that this interpellation be postponed to the presence of the Prime Minister. I'm saying this in the beginning, so it doesn't get forgotten. Interpelation is essentially about the adoption by the government of a resolution proposing a budget for the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union, which will take place in 2022. It seems to be relatively far away. It seems like it's somewhere in the fog, and it's some sort of bureaucratic, maybe almost pointless business. However, this is an exceptional opportunity that the Czech Republic receives once every 12 or 13 years, and it appears that the budget that has been approved is fundamentally inadequate. So I've interpolated the Prime Minister to explain in some way how he came to this amount and why the amount is just like that. At this point, it's in a situation where the government should spread the cards a little bit more and tell us how it came to this, why the amount is just like that. Why? Because when we look at the comparison with other countries in the European Union that hold a comparable action, there are considerably more of these funds. And I'd like to turn against not talking about bread or eating. Above all, we need quality people who will prepare this Presidency on the agenda side, in terms of promoting the interests of the Czech Republic. You can't hire these people from day to day. You must hire them to the relevant institutions, train them, give them context. And that's work for years. This means that if the government is now undermining the budget, it will be saving in the wrong place and, as a result, it will damage our image of the Czech Republic in the European Union, it will do us bad advertising and we will probably not be able to enforce as many interests as we can enforce. I'm not going to elaborate anymore. I'll wait for the Prime Minister to meet us at the House. He said yesterday that he wouldn't sit here with us, that it seemed pointless to him. I would like him to come to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and be willing to explain his position. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u13	Thank you. This is the procedural proposal that we will be voting on. There is a proposal to interrupt the discussion of this interpelation into the presence of the intersecting prime minister. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 260 are 75 Members and Members, for 29 against no one. The motion was not accepted. Let's keep going. It is possible to make another proposal for interruption. Some tickets just arrived. I'll introduce them to the House. Mr Mihola apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons, and Mr Krejza apologizes on account of a foreign business trip. Mr Lipavský is rejoining the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would like to discuss the arguments a little more in detail, because I believe that this will help in the House's decision to adjourn this question. The budget for the Czech Presidency in 2009 was CZK 1.9 billion. There were 31 top events and 7 summits, 550 other conferences in the Czech Republic, 500 cultural events under the auspices of the Czech Presidency, 146 diplomats on the permanent representation of the Czech Republic in Brussels, 1 500 officials involved in the Presidency in the Czech Republic. Incredible amount of translated documents. Of course, the European Union has the language of procedure in English, French, but a lot of things need to be translated into other national languages. 3 730 accredited journalists, which means we were the center of attention. A total of 30,000 participants in all different events. Of course, I do not want to question the fact that there have been some problems in the Presidency, we know this very well. The government fell, then there was a series of lawsuits. However, I see that the Czech Republic has moved considerably further since then in the sense of how we are able to organise large international events, how we can present ourselves in the world. Of course, the 12 years have grown, and I think we can say it literally, a new generation of civil servants, who, for example, They speak English very well, they studied abroad. That means we are objectively in a much better position to organize such an event. And that's why it's a huge shame that the Prime Minister is going to stand up to it in a way that he calls it a sandwich shop, a blabbermouth, and he's trying to suffocate it more or less. I am very sorry to hear that, and I would like to try to lead him to believe that this view should be re-evaluated, and the resources and resources that the State and the state administration have to devote to this properly. Of course, it is not a call for spending, it is a call for a sensible foreign pragmatic policy. After all, I have the impression that the Prime Minister is trying to present himself like this. I've pulled out some specific numbers that I'm trying to demonstrate that it's actually being shot down without any thought. So in 2009 the cost of ensuring the security of the Presidency was around CZK 373 million. In the budget for the Presidency 2022, the costs are CZK 375 million, i.e. exactly the same, knowing that the scope of the action will vary. That means, I'd really like to know if the government was taking it through a copy machine or if it had any arguments. And if, for example, the question of cyber security is taken into account. We have very good people for this in the Czech Republic, on the other hand some of our offices are facing serious shortcomings, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I would really like to ask the Prime Minister how he wants to deal with this. It is like another thing that there is actually a set of events that must take place within the Czech Presidency or within the Presidency of the EU countries, and then there are a number of more or less events that are not formalised anywhere, but it is a question of, say, bonton and the tradition that each Presidency takes place. What the government has done, or what the Office of the Government has proposed, is that it has completely severed these events, and I suspect that the Ministry of Transport has somehow managed to scream in quotation marks to complete their informal meeting of the EU Council in the field of transport, but other institutions have failed to do so. So, in the context of this, certain events take place regularly every six months in the European Union, but only in Prague, and this will be a great specific feature of the Czech Presidency, this event will probably not take place. So that's another thing where I find that the government should reconsider its position that it should meet individual departments, because, of course, it reeks of being a disgrace again. What is absolutely crucial, and what we need people for, and of course those people don't live out of the air, are priorities. These are the interests that the Czech Republic wants to promote in the EU. Why is the European Union important to us? I believe that every citizen of the Czech Republic understands this because it is our largest trade market. It is a pillar of our economic prosperity, and it is absolutely essential for us that the rules that apply in the European Union come as far as possible to us. This means that it should not only be about the fact that they have told us something from Brussels again, but that we should take the opportunity, for example, to influence the rules under which the European Union and the common market work. And how do these rules affect? This is a whole series of work meetings, it is the preparation of the agenda, it is the presentation of topics. And that must be done by people who have very detailed and concrete knowledge of the context. Because it's the Presidency that we're going to conduct these negotiations. Our officials, our politicians will chair individual commissions, meetings, and they can very closely influence the agenda. We can invite guests who will talk on the expert panels about the topics and prepare them. And if this is well prepared, if we have people dedicated to it, and they'll be there for two years, a year to prepare, an agenda to study, they'll know those people, then we can really influence what's going on in the European Union. And it's not gonna be "us without us" like we always make excuses for something coming from Brussels. So that is the most basic argument why we should address this issue. Of course, it is important to negotiate with France and Sweden. France will chair before us, Sweden will chair after us. And let's not make any illusions, France knows how to set its interests very well, how to communicate them very well. And if we are not fully prepared, of course, nothing can be expected except that they will be given priority, that those interests will spill into our Presidency. I consider this to be absolutely crucial to stress. I don't think it's anything that's hurting us or what's wrong, but it needs to be seen as another factor in the fact that if we don't get ready for something, the others won't. The others will be ready. That's why I'm stressing it. It's an agenda that goes across all the resorts. Of course, it is coordinated by the Office of the Government, and it is therefore necessary for the ministries, but also for the Office of the Government to have a sufficient number of experts. So I will just repeat that cuts lead to two absolutely fundamental problems, and this will be an undignified and inadequate performance of the role of the Czech Republic as president at diplomatic level. We will not have sufficient capacity to promote our interests at the level of the policy, policymaking, I have already mentioned this, and of course existing employees will be completely overloaded. God knows what this will lead to. Sum of the sum, it's gonna make us a bad ad, we're not gonna push our interests, we're gonna throw away the opportunity, and in the end, the resources that we're putting into it today aren't gonna have the right impact. The issues that we can address in the EU, and I think citizens are very grateful for that, for example. double food quality, it is energy, we need to address the transformation from coal power plants to renewable sources, that is, to breathe better air, climate change is affecting us, the Czech Republic is going through a crisis of bark, drought - that is, this should be one of our government's main priorities. Immigration policy, absolutely crucial. The crisis can happen at any time... I'd like to ask the MPs not to yell at me from the bench! I'm sorry, I find it undignified. Thank you. [[10.10 hours]] And, of course, it is also a matter of security, terrorism. We can talk about the European Union's relationship to the Balkans, to Eastern Europe, to Ukraine, to Russia. So the Czech Republic has a whole set of topics and interests that we need to convince other countries of the European Union to work together with us. I would like to ask the House once again, I will put forward a procedural proposal, therefore, to vote on the adjournment of this interpelation at the next meeting, if I may, Mr President, formulate this. [[- Definitely.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u15	At the next meeting, or in the presence of the minister, it's up to you. A point of fact, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor. Otherwise, good morning. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I just wanted to ask, above all, members of the ANO movement, if it was possible to make a gentleman's agreement to support the interruption to the presence of the Minister, because these are things that otherwise support all parties except you, so your procedure, where you do not support the interruption to the presence of the Minister, leads me to have no choice but to make an application for withdrawal before each vote. All colleagues have to come back, they have to run out of meetings around them just because you're not holding some gentleman's behavior. I'm very sorry. And anyway, I'm filing for a check-out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u17	Absolutely. But now we need to be clear, because Mr Lipavskýý suggested that we vote on the adjournment until the next meeting, and you propose that the Minister be present, but the interpelation is Mr Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u18	I can explain, Mr President. The point is, before you took over the chair, there was a vote of interruption to the Minister's presence. [[- Yes.]] bohužel, the members of the YES did not support this. All the other clubs were for. I didn't apply for a check-out at the time because I didn't want to force all my colleagues to come back and forth again, but unfortunately I have nothing else to do, because otherwise the proposal doesn't have a chance to go through.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u19	Okay. So, Mr Lipavský, do you agree, too, that we will vote on adjournment until the Minister's presence? [[ANO members from the bench: We have already voted.]] So until the next meeting... I get it by the next meeting. I'll check you all out, sign up with your voting cards again. I will engage and vote on the adjournment of this interpelation until the next meeting. In the meantime, I'll read the apologies. The President of the House of Radek Vondráček asks for an apology from 11 o'clock to the end of the day, for reasons of work, and for reasons of doctor Mrs Lenka Kozlová between 11 o'clock and 18 o'clock, the reason was the doctor's visit, Mr Marek Výborný apologies from 9 o'clock today from the meeting day due to the working day in the region and Mrs Ilona Mauritzová apologizes for this afternoon's meeting for working reasons. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 261. 74 Members logged in, for 31, against 5. The motion was denied. Please, Mr Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u20	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make a motion to express my disagreement with the written reply, the response to the written interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u21	We will vote on your proposal. So we're going to vote on a motion to disagree with the answer to the written question. So I... wait, we're not going to vote yet, Mr. Ondřej Babka, on a point of fact. Wrong. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of disagreeing? Who's against disapproval? Voting number 262. 75 Members logged in, for 31, against 14. The motion to disagree was rejected. So we will now proceed to the discussion of the next interpelation and this is a written interpelation, when the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga responded to Mr Lukáš Bartoň's interpelation on the financing of VaVpI centres. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 621. I am opening the debate and Mr Lukáš Bartoš is registered. [[Bartoň]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u22	Mr President, honourable Members, I have interrogated the Minister of Education on the financing of the VaVpi Centres - Science and Research for Innovation, which has been able to build massively through the European Union's money, and the Ministry has ensured their subsequent national sustainability programmes, their subsequent sustainability until they become self-sufficient. [[Noise in the hall.]] The Minister replied, but he did not answer some of the questions from the interpelation, such as how well some VAVPI centres are doing according to who they belong to. Let me give you an example. VaVpI centres, which fall under MŠMT - the money that has now been on national sustainability programmes, are now dissolved into institutional support, while VaVpI centres that fall under the MIT, this dissolution of this money into national sustainability programmes is not among so many institutions and money will again arrive at the VaVpI centres. Since, in the meantime, I had a little chat with the Minister after the meeting of the Board of Education Committee, where we clarified some questions, I will not even give, express dissatisfaction with the answer, just expressing my dissatisfaction with the fact that, depending on who the VaVpI centres are, their financing is ensured. VaVpI centres under MIT will be better off in the future than VaVpI centers under MŠMT, and it is therefore my personal opinion that I do not consider this condition to be good. We should treat the VaVpI centers equally and ensure their funding, whoever they fall under. Otherwise, the Minister is absent today, as in many other interventions, but he is absent today because he is a strategic intention at the Prague City Council at the conference on guidelines for education policy by 2030. It's a conference where I'd like to be if I wasn't here, which is why I understand. However, if we were to adjourn this discussion before the Minister is here, so given his presence in other interventions, it would probably be sometime next year, perhaps when the National Sustainability Programme II is over, and actually there is nothing left to discuss. So just a personal statement that I do not agree with the position of the Ministry of Education as it behaves towards direct financing of the VaVpI Centres for the future, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u23	So let me see if anyone else is reporting for the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I understand that Mr Lukáš Bartoň is not proposing a resolution on this answer, so thank you and I am ending this matter. Otherwise, I'm gonna make one apology right now. Minister Adam Vojtěch apologized initially until 11 o'clock, but he is already present. And now we have the last written interpelation. The point is that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Olga Richterová's interpellation with regard to government policy towards China in connection with reports on systematic human rights violations, including trafficking in illegal human organs. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as House Press 623. I'm opening the debate. And the Member is not present. So in this case, I'm done talking. So thank you. I note that for today we have completed the discussion of the answers to the written interpelations of Members, and I am declaring a break within 11 hours when the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will now be dealing with points 136, 272, 273, 274, 275, 276, 277, 278, 279 and 280. Let me remind you that this afternoon we're going to be dealing with point 318, which is oral questioning. Of course, we will also give room for proposals to change the program. First of all, President Ivan Bartoš submitted his proposal for a change of programme. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u25	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would like to ask you for a solid press classification of 447, which is a citizen's right to digital service, on Friday 8. 11th as the first point of the third reading block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u26	Yes, I understand. I've noticed. Another enrollment with a proposal for a change of programme is President Chvojka. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would also like to speak with a request to place points firmly within tomorrow's third reading block. I would like to propose that President Bartoš's proposal, which I agree with, means that I agree that, as item number one, those digital services should be, then I would ask us to vote on the fact that, as item number two, we would include point 210, print 483, emission allowance trading. Then I'd like us to include point 220, print 448, which are basic registers. And then as the third point after that point number one, if any, so as point number four, the MP's proposal for the Employment Act, which is point 235, print 463. So just one more short resumé. As item number two of the Act on Trade in Emission Allowances, as item number three of tomorrow's block of third reading basic registers and item number four of the MP's proposal for an amendment to the Employment Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u28	Yes. Next, Mr Kaňkovský will make a proposal to amend the programme. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u29	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. I would just join President Chvojka's motion, and it concerns paragraph 235. This is a parliamentary proposal, House press 463. We've been over this a couple of times. This is a matter of promoting the employment of people with disabilities in the protected labour market. We have also mentioned here that this area was somewhat neglected by the MPSV. We have already discussed this in December 2018 on the Social Policy Committee. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not responded, and the matter is very urgent at the moment. If we want employers in a protected labour market to receive a contribution to at least the last quarter's disability, we need to approve the amendment at third reading as soon as possible and send it to the Senate. I am very grateful to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, who was behind this proposal and prepared it, and as one of the co-chairs, I very much intercede for voting tomorrow at the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u30	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So, are you joining the proposal to make it the fourth point as suggested by President Chvojka? [[Member of Kankovsky: Yes.]] Thank you. With another proposal, Mr Staněk will come forward to change the agenda of the meeting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u31	Thank you, Mr President. On 8 September at the seminar on the economics of Czech Television, a serious colleague, esteemed colleagues, promised the Council of Czech Television to answer some questions she could not answer at the seminar. Since this has not yet happened, I propose to include in the agenda a point entitled Call for the Czech Television Council to answer questions about the economics of Czech Television. Within this point, the Chamber of Deputies would call on the Czech Television Council to answer the following questions: First: How many broadcasting time since 2012 have the Czech Television been promoting Leica Gallery, and what programmes have they been? Secondly, what were the costs of producing the programmes in which Leica Gallery was promoted? Third: In what way and with what result did the investigation take place whether the CEO of Czech Television is in conflict of interest under Article 22 of the Czech Television Code, or other legal or legal provisions, by owning Leica Gallery together with his wife? Fourth: Why are the programmes promoted by Leica Gallery in recent days being removed from the Czech Television broadcast archive, and who is responsible for the decision to remove these programmes? Fifth: What result did the control of the purchase and implementation of all Helios Green economic and operating system modules? This is mainly about compliance with the overall competition prize by the winner of the competition, the company Asseco Solutions, a. s. What result was the control of the eligibility of the additional competition for the implementation of the economic and operational system Helios Green in a situation where the implementation of the system was already carried out by the company Asseco Solutions? And what result did the verification of the fulfilment of the qualification requirements required in the tender documentation result in the winner of this competition, Leading, s. r. o.? This is the tender number 161210000. Seventh: The reason why they worked on the implementation of Helios Green system was also the employees of Czech Television, when implementation of this system was to ensure the company Asseco Solutions, a. s. according to the contracts concluded with the Czech Television. and Leading, s. r. o.? Eight: What were the internal costs of the implementation of Helios Green and will these costs be recovered from companies to ensure implementation of the system? Nine: Since the year the value of all the property of Czech Television has fallen permanently. What is the limit below which the value of the Czech TV property should no longer fall? Who and according to what criteria has set this limit, and when is this limit to be reached? Data please specify separately for each type of property. Ten: What result...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u33	Tenth: What result was the audit of the tender number 160902800 to ensure the transport of persons for Czech television, especially with regard to the fulfilment of the qualification prerequisites of the winner of the competition? 11th: How and how did the audit result when the contract for transport services worth CZK 15 580 262 was transferred from Halo Taxi, IČO 25628747 to Halo Taxi Transport, IČO 25748084, to a completely different entity operating under another identification number? These are all questions that were raised not only at the seminar but also in the debate during the discussion of the reports on Czech Television's financial management for 2016 and 2017 here in the Chamber of Deputies. All these issues concern the economic and legal treatment of public funds, and the public deserves to have these issues of this type answered. That is why I am asking you to support the inclusion of this item in the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-001-317.u34	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for a change of schedule? No, let me introduce you to my apologies. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes for today's meeting between 11.00 and 18.00 for health reasons, Mr Jaroslav Holík from 12.30 to 13.00 for work reasons, Mrs Olga Richterová from all over today's meeting day due to the treatment of a member of the family. We will now vote on the individual proposals, as presented in that order. First of all, we will be faced with President Bartoš's proposal to include the 447 House press on the right to digital service on Friday 8. 11th as the first point of the third reading block. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 263, 149 Members signed in for 141, against no one. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will consider President Chvojka's proposal to include the second item of the third reading block on Friday 8 in point 483, emission allowance trading. 11. Sorry, item 210, House press 483. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 264, registered by 150 Members, for 141, against no one. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is the proposal by President Chvojka. These are basic registers, House press 448, to include as the third point of the third reading block on Friday. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 265, registered by 150 Members, for 143, against no one. The motion was accepted. Then there is the proposal made by both President Chvojka and Mr Kaňkovský. It is a House press of 463 on employment and should be included as the fourth point of the third reading block on Friday 8. 11. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 266, registered by 150 Members, for 142, against no one. The motion was accepted. And the last proposal that has been made is to include Mr Staněk's proposal in the agenda of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to call on the Council of Czech Television to provide information - I do not interpret it exactly - on the economics of Czech television, but I think that point is understandable or what Mr Staněk proposed. So I'm going to vote on him. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 267, registered by 150 Members, for 65, against 32. The proposal has not been adopted and we have not included the item in the agenda for this meeting. This has dealt with the vote with all the proposals for amending the agenda for the meeting, and we will now address item No. 136, which is
