ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-018-121.u1	121. Proposal for the election of a representative of the Ombudsman That was the four proposals, two from the president and two from the Senate. 175 ballots issued and surrendered, kvorum 88. Zdeněk Koudelka received 14 votes - please calm colleagues - Stanislav Křeček 26 votes, Markéta Selucká 45 votes and Eliška Wagnerová 17 votes. In the first round no one was elected, two finalists advance to the second round and these are Stanislav Křeček with 26 votes and Markéta Selucká with 45 votes. Those are the election results. I'm awaiting, not officially, that I have the ambition to implement the second rounds in a variable week. I would like to ask the club president, the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies. If you agree with your colleagues, we could include it on Wednesday at 12.45 pm, when we should be able to do this if the club presidents agree and agree. And the latest intel. Since we are already preparing for the April meeting, please announce further deadlines for the new nominations for the April meeting, and they will be nominations for changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as alternate members of the Board of Directors of the General Health Insurance Corporation and alternate members of the Supervisory Board of the General Health Insurance Corporation and finally another proposal for - no, I apologize, it will be these three so far. I'd make another deadline based on what happens to the second round. At this point it will be the composition of the bodies of the Chamber of Deputies and an alternate of the Administrative and Supervisory Board of the VZP. It would have been until April 3rd until 12:00 p.m. So much information from the electoral committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-018-121.u2	Thank you and we will now proceed to discuss the points... [[Ambassador Onderka reporting with a factual remark.]] You can't do that because there's no open point and you don't have a priority right. I can't. Then ask the chairman of your MP to speak for you. [[Mr Onderka is not satisfied with the answer and objects - incomprehensible.]] Oh, no, he'd have to be absent, in that case, vice president of the club. So it's off. So we're going to proceed to the next point that is
