ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the fourth day of the 35th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards, or I would like to know who is applying for a replacement card. I announce that Mr Špičák, Mr Holomčík, will vote with Mr. 15's replacement card - voting card number 8. Vondráček Radek apologizes - foreign trip, Hana Aulická Jírovcová - family reasons, Andrea Babišová - working reasons, Dana Balcarová - working reasons, Jan Bartošek - foreign trip, Jiří Běhounek - working reasons, Petr Beitl - health reasons, Jan Birke - foreign trip, Jiří Bláha by 1.00 - working reasons, Blažek Pavel - working reasons, Elfmark František - health reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav - health reasons, Jurečka Marian - foreign trip. Mrs Brzobohatá will vote with voting card number 17. I will return to my apologies: Miroslav Kalousek - personal reasons, Lenka Kozlová - health reasons, Jana Krutáková - working reasons, Jana Levová - health reasons, Tomio Okamura by 11.00 - working reasons, Ladislav Okleštěk - health reasons, Roman Onderka - working reasons, Marie Pěnčíková without giving reason, Karel Schwarzenberg - health reasons, Jan Volný - health reasons, Rostislav Vyzula - health reasons, Pavel Žáček - family reasons. Members of the government: Andrej Babiš - foreign travel, Vladimír Kremlík - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - foreign travel, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons. Today's negotiations would start with firmly placed points from the third reading block, that is, points 206, House press 509, tax area, and 210, House press 483, allowance trade. Then we would continue with other points from the third reading block, for which legal deadlines are fulfilled. Point 207, House Press 490, State Social Support, paragraph 208, House Press 207, Commercial Corporations, paragraph 212, House Press 367, Support for Regional Development, and paragraph 219, House Press 434, Tax - Taiwan. I remind you that after the block of third reading we have firmly classified points 15, House printing 448, basic registers, and 9, House printing 395, territorial administrative breakdown of the state. Then we would eventually continue the points from the block of second reading laws. [[There's noise and restlessness in the room.]] Now we have room for any changes to the agenda. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. And I'm going to ask for peace in the hall, because we've already read the formalities, now it's going to be a program, so please let us all have some space to hear what they say, and so that I can record all the comments properly. I'm sorry. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear Members of the Government, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, we are about halfway through the parliamentary term and I have already announced on Tuesday at the meeting of the Grémia of the Chamber of Deputies that we are not satisfied that opposition proposals for amendments are not being discussed. I don't think there's any reason. Many of them have been on the agenda for 12 months or more. And we're going to try to convince you today to discuss at least some of these proposals. At the same time, if you look at the statistics - and if I speak for the Civic Democrats' club - the words on zero tolerance to government bills do not apply that there are government bills that get support from our MP. If we look at a block of laws that is ready for this meeting by the third reading, so far it's just government bills. And I want to say that there is one priority that we see that is political agreement, and that is a simplified bill that increases parental contribution. When, at the end of June, at the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies, we promised that once the legal deadlines were met, we would always be prepared to discuss the bill first in the relevant block of the first, second, third reading. Although it's a government bill, there's no political conflict. Maybe - not perhaps, surely there are some amendments, but none of these amendments are aimed at not increasing parental contribution. Then my colleague, Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr Bauer, will give a detailed explanation in the debate on the draft programme. I'm calling to suggest repeatedly that this be the first point of the third reading block. You know - and we have also announced that, on the contrary, the very controversial of the third reading block, which is ready for discussion, is the House's 509, tax package. And for the civil democrats, we say that we are ready to discuss the parental contribution, that it is a priority. And it's up to the government majority whether it puts it ahead of the controversial point or behind the controversial point. We're in favour of it being before. Because if you use it in the debate that we are somehow blocking the discussion of the parental contribution, it turns out that this is simply not true. Today we'll have a chance to discuss this as the first point in the third reading block. I will return to the proposal that I made on Tuesday, and I will try to persuade you to discuss two parliamentary proposals from the Civil Democrat Club, which repeals the obsolete laws of 1919. And in order not to mention just the title, I quote to you some of the draft laws or regulations of the government that we propose to exclude from the valid legislation of the Czech Republic. I think that the very title, whether those laws or the order of the government from the first Republic, will give us the truth and that we can agree and move this press forward quite quickly to the second reading. I cannot imagine any of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies actually opposed us to abolishing, for example, these laws or government regulations. For example, Act No. 42/1919 Coll., which regulates the programme of tables in matters of fees. Or Law No. 51/1919 Sb., on the use of part of administrative surpluses of mass orphans cash registers. Or Law No. 43/1919 Coll., amending the provisions of Section 17 of the Imperial Decree of 16 April 1916, Act No. 103 and Section 22 of the Law of 16 February 1918, Act 66, concerning the repayment of the tax on war profits or war tax. Fortunately, the House's 509 press is not part of the renewal of the war tax. [[9.10 hours]] Or the order of the Minister of Finance - it could be supported by the Minister after a hundred years that we would cancel it - the Decree of the Minister of Finance No. 85/1919 Coll., on the inventory of bonds of Austrian and Hungarian war loans and treasury bills of the Austrian-Hungarian Bank. Or - the points in the Parliamentary press number 189, from which I quote, are a total of 63, so I'm going to choose the last two from this press. For example, under paragraph 46 we propose the regulation of the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic number 467/1920 Coll., on unsubscribing deposits up to 50 crowns. Or Law No. 153/1919 Coll., which concerns the separation of financial administration from political administration. That's what we really have here, but we're not quite sure if this law applies in practice. If I were to quote some other unnecessary, exploited, obsolent in the language of the legislature, drafts of laws that contain the House print 213, there are a total of 150 and 63 points, so we are proposing to cancel 213...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u3	I would ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace. Calm down, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u4	For example, the Decree of the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic No. 540/1919 Coll., repealing the Decree of 19 May 1919 No. 240 Coll. limited receipt of single and double crown banknotes. I think we can agree that we don't have one-crown bills anymore, we don't have two-crown bills either. Or Decree of the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic No. 42/1921 Sb., which limits the import and acceptance of small coins of the koruna currency of the Austro-Hungarian. Or - and we can basically touch on any point contained in this bill because they are all unnecessary. For example, in order to improve our excellent relations with the Slovak Republic, we could repeal the Czechoslovak Government Decree No. 336/1920 Coll., laying down the organizational rules for granting loans to tradesmen of war damaged in Slovakia. This may seem absurd to you, but all these laws or government regulations are still in force and are part of the legislation of the Czech Republic. I'll repeat what I said on Tuesday. I appreciate that the Ministry of the Interior has added to our initiative. I think that's right, we thought exactly this way that it would not only be proposed by opposition members, opposition clubs, but could participate in the apparatus of individual ministries and come up with its own initiative and not stay in 1919 or 1920 or 1921. In order to fulfil the formal aspect of the proposal to reschedule these items of our 35th meeting, I propose in two options that we include paragraph 69, which is the House Press 181 next Thursday at 11 o'clock as the first item, and item 77 of our programme, House Press 213, I propose on Thursday 24. 10th at 11 o'clock as a second point. Or alternatively, if you felt better to discuss this next Friday and not next Thursday, I suggest that these two points in turn 69 and 77, House prints 181 and 213, be included as the first and second points of our negotiations on Friday 25 October. Thank you for your attention and I believe that you will also support these sensible proposals with your vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u5	Thank you. Since I have 26 applications here to change the program, I'm just pointing out that I'm going to be asking for written applications by 9:30, when it's possible to report to change the program. Of course, it's gonna take longer, the whole procedure, and there's more and more coming together. So just for the record. And with priority rights, Vice-President Fiala is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I will follow up with the President of our Zbyněk Stanjura, and I will also propose to you a change of today's agenda for the Chamber of Deputies. I know that Members of the Government or of the Government Members will want to deal with House Press 509, i.e. the tax package. I know it, it surprises me a little, especially its content, because I remember what the government of Andrej Babiš says in his programming statement, where he says, among other things, - I quote: We will not increase the tax burden. And this statement in the government statement certainly contradicts what is presented here, what is the content of the tax package, where taxes increase, not only excise tax, gambling tax, but also gas taxation and other things. The government is planning something that we think is totally unacceptable, sucking up taxpayers' money, raising taxes, in this way putting holes in the budget that were created by its mistakes, its missteps. And that is something that we do not think citizens deserve at a time of economic growth. But what people deserve is a simpler and more transparent tax system. I would therefore like to propose, Mr President, the first item of today's meeting is the House Press 254, i.e. the proposal of Members Zbyněk Stanjura, Petr Fiala, Jana Černochová and others to issue a law amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, or paragraph 88 of the approved programme of the 35th meeting. This proposal of ours aims to abolish the institute called. supergross wages and replace it with a simple system of one income tax rate, of a gross wage of 15 per cent. Just when you're counting it in your head right now, I'm going to make it easier for you - our proposal would mean that, as a result, the net wages of all employees would increase by 7 percent and, above all, it would also lead to a significant simplification and clarification of the entire tax system in the area of income tax. I would like another illustration of the example of an employee who would receive a gross monthly salary of CZK 30,000, so after the adoption of this bill, he would save CZK 1 530 per month on income tax compared to the current situation, which represents an annual savings of CZK 18 360. I think that is certainly a pleasant amount, it is something much more useful if this Parliament were to accept than what you are planning here in your tax package. I will just remind you that this bill, that is, the House press 254, amending the Income Tax Act, we submitted this bill on 6 August 2018. Yes, you hear well, August 6, 2018. He hasn't been on the agenda since. And we're still hearing something about some opposition windows, or whatever you call it rhetorical, and what you're going to do here for the opposition, but the truth is that we're not getting to discuss it at all - discuss it, I understand that you might not approve something, even though I'd be surprised about it, but I understand that you don't approve something - but there aren't even the laws that the opposition is putting forward here, nor do we have the opportunity to make arguments. What we're hearing here is insults about opposition filth and all that stuff, we've heard enough here, but so we can argue here that we can get our ideas out of the way and show us our better ideas, and we can't get to that here, and you don't want to let us do that here. [[9.20 hours]] By the way, when I talk about the situation of these opposition proposals, especially with this proposal, it seems very strange to me, because this proposal, our motion to abolish a super-gross wage, corresponds to what you also have in your programming statement, which I probably read better than you. In the government's programming statement, I read - we cancel the super gross wage on personal income tax. So respectable government, esteemed members of the government coalition, today we can begin. We will help you to fill this item in the programming declaration, because we consider it reasonable, there, in this direction, to cancel the supergross income tax salary, that is exactly where our proposal, which has been here since August 2018 and which you do not want to put on the agenda either. Even for Members of the government camp, I would like to remind you how strange this is because this commitment, namely the abolition of the supergross wage, already contained the programming statement of the first government of Andrej Babiš, not only the current one, and the government that preceded it, the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, whose members were, of course, also the ANO and the ČSSD movement, had stated in the coalition agreement, which is annexed to the government's programming statement, the objective - I quote: The coalition will abolish the concept of supergross wages and the solidarity surcharge. These are commitments that have been articulated here in various ways by members of the current government coalition for six years. And nothing happened. We have come up with this proposal because it corresponds to our idea of how taxes should be adjusted and which way to go in this matter. We came up with this, in August 2018, we presented it as a finished material, and the result is that we can't even talk about it here. It is clear that the concept of supergross wages has already survived, he has been introduced in order to increase employee awareness of the employer's total cost of paying wages. This point, or this objective, has already been met long ago, so we can move on to a change, we can move on to a simpler concept of gross wage taxation, and we have an opportunity to reduce taxes and do something that will really help them during economic growth. So I would very much like to and I would ask you to start discussing this point so that we can start taking this seriously, and so that we can implement not only the programme and programming statements of the Civil Democratic Party, but also the government's programming statements in this regard. Madam Members, I ask you once again to put this point before you, and I propose that we include the House Press 254 as the first item of the meeting today, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Petr Fiala, Mr Jana Černochová and others on the issue of Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, or paragraph 88 of the approved agenda of the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I think the citizens deserve to take this helpful step, which is what we have been dealing with. And I thank you for supporting my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u7	Thank you. The next in line is Mr. Vít Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Thank you so much for your word. I also signed up today, even with two applications, to discuss the agenda. Indeed, it turns out that we are failing to include opposition proposals, despite the declaration of the government majority. These opposition proposals lie in the system for months, and we can actually say that they have been there for many years after those two years. They get the number of the House press, on the Gremium, we always try to get our representatives to get on the agenda, and often the answer is - unfortunately - that is, as if these opposition proposals are Senate vomit. We have a strong representation in the Senate, and what we have from the Senate to the Chamber of Deputies, that's the opposition material, that's what you do here, it's what your legislators, your senators, created. This, of course, is a very twisted perception of reality, because here we have two chambers of Parliament, and the other has a historically different composition than the lower chamber. And it is quite natural that the Senate, whatever its composition, will return drafts of laws or come up with its own proposal, and this must, of course, be understood as something completely different from those of opposition Members in the Chamber of Deputies, which are included in the system under a number and which is simply not received. It does not come to them afterwards, even with a ridiculous argument by the Prime Minister, that he actually wants to inform us about this matter, how he wants to inform us about our Presidency in the European Union, yes, when he has the opportunity. And if we want to include this as an item in the Chamber of Deputies' agenda, then the government will simply not approve. Here it turns out that the Chamber of Deputies, unfortunately, only works in the way that the proposals of the government or the government themselves are supported, and we may not even count on our legal proposals to be approved. However, we want to achieve at least the situation that we will be allowed to discuss. That is why I have once again proposed, if I am talking about the second point, then, Mr President, I will, of course, change it, so I have also suggested that we renegotiate the House Press No. 418, again, it is a material which the government coalition has already referred to historically as something that it would like to enforce, it is an amendment to the Act on Liability for Damage caused by the exercise of public power. We have more political groups here, which had the matter contained in their program, and unfortunately, they just didn't get to the discussion here and not get to it. The item was included in the system some three quarters of a year ago, it has the number of the House press 418, but it has never appeared in the draft meeting. We really believe, and we learn from the media that over 100 authorities and state institutions paid in 2014 to 2018 for damages and fines almost CZK 2 billion. Then we're going to say that we're missing 2 billion, for example. social services. The law already allows to recover damage for incorrect or late decisions by officials, but the state does not do so. So we say a simple change of law, let's go out of volunteering, the state can enforce, do just duty, the state has to enforce. We in cities as mayors are still confronted with the reality of the proper economy, and so should it be if someone has any damage caused, in which case the damage is to be enforced by the state. And I'm saying again, that was part of the YES program, that's where I found the point. Once again, even what is in the programme of the ANO movement is simply not discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies because this is not a good time. Let me just say how real it was with the recovery of the damage. The Ministry recovered and recovered only CZK 14 million, which of these 2.1 billion is just 0.71% of the total amount that I mentioned here. That's sad. For that, mayors in the municipalities would be held accountable, end up being prosecuted, go to the police to explain, because they simply have to enforce the damage. For example, the Ministry of Agriculture paid CZK 228 million in compensation and fines and did not recover anything. This is probably the winner in the competition for non-application of fines within the Czech Republic. I would like to call on Members to approve this time the inclusion of a point in the agenda. My proposal is to firmly include this point as the 418 House Press on Tuesday afternoon as the first point of our negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u9	Mr. Chairman, wait a minute. I didn't just register it. So you're proposing the first point. You have two changes here. [[There's a deal going on off the mike.]] 418 is your first suggestion today... Tuesday, 21. 10th as the first point of action. And the other one? This means the House press 465/10 on Tuesday as the second item. Thank you. Otherwise, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that we no longer accept applications for an amendment to the approved agenda. I note that I have a report from the seat of Mr Černohorský and the rest are all written applications. I will ask President Marek Výborný to take the floor with priority rights, and Mr Jakub Janda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u10	Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Madam Vice Prime Minister, ministers of this government, colleagues, good morning to all of you. I would like to join what has already been said here. I have carefully reviewed the government's statement, and I have to say that what is repeatedly being said here is really true. I am not quite sure whether or not the members of the government coalition and ministers have actually read this government statement, I am not sure whether it is a piece of paper or something that really is a program for four years of governance and responsible governance in this country. Because if someone says they won't raise taxes, and then right here, through this incredibly incredibly incredibly House-Print number 509, is trying to do the opposite without explaining it in any way, this 180-degree turn, it really seems strange to me. We, i.e. KDU-ČSL, are fundamentally bothered by the fact that some of these measures are clearly against the interests of Czech families, which are directed against the citizens of this country. For example, if we want to damage thousands of citizens by taxing them with gas in their homes, then what, ladies and gentlemen, is different from an attack on Czech families. I really believe that, in this sense, the government is not doing things here that would benefit the country's positive governance. And when I return to this document, which I took with me, it is an invitation to the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will begin on Tuesday, 15 October 2019 at 14 o'clock, and I will look at the number of items of the programme that is included here, and when, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, you will look into the House system and you will find out how many prints, how many prints there are, you will find that from my point of view there is something wrong if I paraphrase the classics in the Czech State, in the Czech Parliament, in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. Because if only government proposals are constantly being discussed here, and if club presidents come from Gremia with information: the government has come up with a helpful opinion, at every meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the opposition will have some kind of opposition window, there will be a discussion of opposition press - and ladies and gentlemen, the deed has escaped. What's the reality? Totally different. In this list of Houses of Press, there are a number of proposals, which are, for example, consistent with a government statement that coincides with the positions and positions of the government coalition, and yet, I understand, for political reasons, it is not entirely ideal to discuss the things that the opposition is putting forward, whether KDU-ČSL or other parties, but we must wait for the ensemble of officials at the various ministries to come up with a government proposal that will then prove to be significantly worse in the finals than the proposals they are preparing with a much more limited apparatus of the individual opposition party. Do you ladies and gentlemen want to know one example? It is constantly mentioned here that it is a disgrace to the Czech Republic, in the way it looks in the Czech Republic business with executions. So, if you look at one opposition proposal here in the House, if I'm not mistaken for at least six months, more like three quarters of a year, and the government has come up with the fact that, of course, she has to prepare her proposal, which she arrived six months later, and when you look at it and when you are debating it with experts - and through the Vice-President I am looking at my colleague Nacher, he knows very well what we are talking about - so he shows - is that right, colleague? - that this government proposal is useless. It's useless, because the principle he's voting for means just starting another business, and that's the business with the first execution. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, where are we? The opposition Members here are hard to write something on their knees, and it is more useful, better-than the proposals prepared by this government with an ensemble of officials at individual ministries. It really seems very strange to me. And I could go on like this. So when I get to some of these proposals, you know that the Czech Republic has been talking about it today and every day in recent months, we have declared war. We've declared war on crustaceans, our forests are dying, we have to fight the drought. [[Help from the diaper]] Thank you, that's exactly what I was going to do. You can see how beautifully the opposition here today can reconcile with the government. The government's Members are hinting, and they are correct, my colleague. Thank you. That's great. I like the way things are going around here. We're fighting the drought. That's right. And when it was the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club, which came up with a very simple proposal from the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which today talks about the need to protect natural resources. And we are in the situation in which we said, let's add four words: besides natural resources also water resources and soil, because these are matters that are really about the future of our children, our families, about the future of the Czech Republic. It is necessary to protect both water resources and soil. And it's not about anything other than, first of all, the symbolic step that we're going to put this fundamental thing in the Constitution, and therefore, he's not just a symbol, but it's about creating clear boundaries on that playground, when it's no longer possible to put public interest above it, understand the public interest in protecting water resources and land, above anyone's other interests. Whether private or public bodies. It will not be possible to say that the extraction of gravel sand in Hodonín is more important than protecting water resources for thousands of inhabitants not only Hodonín, but the whole South Moravian and Zlin region. After all, it will not be possible for the Ministry of the Environment to give a positive opinion on the disposal of the finest land we have in the Czech Republic, in Olomouck, just to build some large-capacity warehouses or anywhere else to build commercial houses, hypermarkets and other things. It's on the finest quality we've got! And that's arable land. It's Czech and Moravian and Silesian black! That's exactly what this is about. [[9.40 hours]] And when KDU-ČSL came up with this proposal, what did we hear? The minister says - yes, that's right, we actually want it, we're preparing it with the ensemble of the officials, we're calling for the meeting, we're inviting you. Yes, we did, of course, thank you for that, and we also defended our proposal at the meeting of the working group at the Ministry, I believe, agriculture, with the participation of both the two ministers, both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment. We have also heard from the majority, not everyone, but most constitutional lawyers, that the KDU-ČSL proposal is precisely the most measured and that it really creates only those limits for a clear definition of public interest, but that, of course, it cannot be pushed through by any opposition party, whether it is KDU-ČSL or whoever else, that the government must come up with it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, where do you want to work this way? The proposal here lies, of course, with some negative or neutral government opinion, it doesn't matter. And all we wanted was one thing. Let's discuss this. Come on, you members of the ANO movement, social democracy, communists, come say no, we do not want to protect water resources, we do not want to protect the soil, what we have here in the Czech Republic. Let's do that. But at the moment it's on the agenda, you're refusing any assignment. So I am this House Press - in the document that you all have, it is number 161, House Press No. 526, proposal by Members of Marek Výborný, Jan Bartošek, Pavel Bělobrádek, Marian Jurečka, Jiří Mihola and others for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, House Press No. 526. It's that thing I was just talking about... I think we all agree on need. And there doesn't have to be a long discussion. I have already introduced it here, let's do it at first reading, ladies and gentlemen, at first reading discuss it, move it to the relevant committees, on the constitutionally-legal committee, I'm sure President Marek Benda is looking forward to it, as well as other members of the constitutionally-legal committee. Let's discuss this on the Environment Committee, that's where it belongs. But for that, it is important that you do not interfere with the discussion at first reading. So I would like to place this point as the first point, so to ask for approval of the inclusion as the first point on Tuesday 22 October, so that is the second week of this, what the 35th meeting, sorry, I have now dropped out, yes, the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And I will, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to proceed. When we discussed - and I am convinced that it is still one of the most important laws that we have approved here in a rather trivial state in the Chamber of Deputies - the amendment to the insolvency law, I pointed out at the time that the amendment of the insolvency law itself is not self-savable. We can see that, yesterday, a colleague, Dominik Feri, here, interrogated the Minister about whether and how insolvency sections of regional courts work in connection with the very increased idea of individual insolvencys. Of course, these things need to be supplemented by other measures. And one of them, with whom the KDU-ČSL came a year and a half ago, and once again the House Press, it is the House Press No. 193, to this day has not been discussed even at first reading. Not even at first reading. There was one, if I'm not mistaken, a debate, but there was no vote on an assignment to committees. Law on advertising regulation. We are convinced that, although I am inherently not a fan of any regulation, it would be one of the preventive measures appropriate to regulate advertising for consumer credit. I'm referring not to housing loans, but only to consumer loans, so that every other ad that pops up to you anywhere on the Internet space, in the media, doesn't really attack those consumer loans, often in connection with various scumbag practices. That is why we wanted to regulate this situation within the framework of the Advertising Regulation Act. This is a proposal from members of Marek Výborný, Pavel Bělobrádek, Jan Bartošek, Jiří Mihola and others to issue a law amending Act No. 40/1995 Coll., on Advertising Regulation and on Amendment and Supplement to Act No. 468/1991 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended. So I would like to ask you, fellow Members, let us discuss this press at first reading. If there's a majority here that believes that it's not good to regulate the consumer credit advertising market and other practices that are often really beyond the law or connected to the business of scumbags, then I'll respect that, but let's discuss this, please. And I dare this press 193, item 74 of the programme - ask for approval, for inclusion on Tuesday 22. 10th as the second item of the program. I hope the Vice-President can write it down, but you have it there, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u11	I thank you, because I would like to appreciate that everyone has given, more or less everyone has submitted applications in writing, so it can be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u12	I didn't want to make this very difficult for you, because you would have to listen carefully to what I'm saying and write it down, you have it on that green note, so I believe everything will be fine and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Well, if I don't have to perform again, I'll take the third thing that I think is important, too. I didn't even register Mr. Education Minister Robert Plaga here this week. Maybe he's sick, I don't know the reasons for his apology, maybe he's solving problems in the field of education because I've noticed that the school unions are declaring a strike alert and teachers want to strike. I don't blame them either. The debate about raising teachers' salaries, the fair, fair salary of teachers, is already evergreen and is becoming somewhat incomprehensible. It juggles here with percentages, with a fixed amount to the teacher's salary. Of course, I also see the problem on the school directors' side, because, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking from my own experience now, the school director is the manager of the teaching process. He knows very well where he has a tow horse in that school and where he has teachers who do their duties, as it follows from the relevant regulations, but in principle they do not give it anything extra. And that is exactly where I am constantly heading, and I draw attention to it, and I must say with joy that, as far as I know, Minister Plaga is going in his thoughts. It really needs to be supported in a more pronounced way by the above-rate component of the salary, because that is the one that the school principal can keep quality teachers in school, and that is the one that can keep the quality of the schools in school. I think everyone knows it, even the Governor knows it, good day because she sets up a number of secondary schools, and if she wants to have quality schools in the Karlovy Vary Region, she knows that those teachers must have something to appreciate, and that not by putting all en bloc into tariffs the same amount, but that the directors will be able to appreciate precisely the pulls of the process, those who often pay their students and pupils beyond their duties after afternoons, evenings, weekends. [[to Mračková Vildumetz's Member]] I think we're all very clear on this. It would only be good if the government coalition agreed on how it would proceed towards teacher salaries being 130 per cent of the average gross wage in 2021. In the meantime, the government has modified it, so to speak. Suddenly it refers to 2017, but if I'm not mistaken, at the beginning everyone was talking about making sense and logic, we have to relate to the current year. If teachers are not to continue to pay the remuneration of the country's college-educated citizens, then this must be by 2021 and it must be at least 130 per cent of the average gross wage. Simple as a slap, and yet there are still some debates and discussions going on about it. So either we have education priority, and then the government has to do our best, or we don't, and then you tell the teachers honestly, and they're gonna go on strike. [[9.50 hours]] I will return to what I would like to discuss here, because ladies and gentlemen, we have opened this law here at first reading, finished the last one entered into the general debate and it was in June or early July, ladies and gentlemen, not in 2019, but in 2018. It is a proposal by Members of Marek Výborný, Pavel Bělobrádek, Jan Bartošek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., the Labour Code, as amended, House Press No. 159. In your paper program of this meeting, you will find him as item 68. So just to clarify, because, as I'm saying, it's been almost a year and a half since we had him on the table, so it's an increase in class fees -- sorry, class allowances --
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u13	Sorry, Mr President, House Press 159, item 65.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u14	Well, that's after the program. Thank you for the clarification, I have the original invitation, it's shifted, we know that. I am referring, of course, to House Press No. 159, to this House Press. I think we all know what's going on. Thank you. We all know what's going on, and I'd just like to remind you -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u15	We all know what's going on, Mr. Chairman, but then, if I read it wrong, you're gonna blame me. So I'm warning you, that's point 65. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u16	Mr. Vice-President, have I ever vilified you? I don't think so. I want to remind you, let's go to merit, let's not argue about the number in the program, it's not important and you're stalling for nothing. Let's see what's going on. These are extras for the work of class teachers, who are at a very poor level in our country. As well as the extras for carrying out specialized activities. It may be marginal, but if you look at what class teachers have to do today, and that this work, when we averaged it on the basis of a survey among the pedagogical public, we got about 30 crowns per hour. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, would you like to go be a class teacher for 30 crowns an hour? Everyone smiles, even those who do not have to work as a teacher in higher education. But I think even the Rector knows what I'm talking about. It would be good to discuss this House press, too, because really class teachers are waiting for it. Kateřina Valachová, through the Vice-President, knows what I am talking about and supported me. [[Member Valachová on the way around the rhetoric: That is true.]] So, you see, even the government MP, the former Minister of Education, should probably know something about it. And I know that Kateřina Valachová knows something about it, and we agreed last year that we needed to discuss it. So I'll also ask the government's social democracy, come raise your hand - and it's before the vote. There doesn't have to be a long debate about that. Let's put this on Tuesday, October 22nd as the third point of the afternoon program! Let's talk about it! And I'm sending it to second reading, that is. on committees. In those committees, we can talk about some modification, we'll discuss it with Minister Plaga, because I have to admit fairly that he wasn't there a year and a half ago. But again, it is one press that shows how this government coalition approaches opposition proposals. I find it very undignified, as my colleague Vít Rakušan said. Let's actually do something about it, because the things that are here, and I've listed three here, so they're really for the benefit of the citizens of this country. I thank you for your helpful approach to these three proposals of mine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u17	Thank you, too. So at this point, I will also read the apologies: Mrs Tereza Hyťhová apologizes today from the beginning of the negotiations until 10.30 for health reasons. And Minister Adam Vojtěch today from 9:00 to 10:30 on account of urgent work issues. At this point, I would like to give the floor to Mr Jakuba Jand, stating that this is no longer a priority right and that the time is set for five minutes under Paragraph 54 (1). 6. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, allow me to propose a change to the agenda, namely the fixed classification of item 23. This is a proposal of the Prague City representative for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business business, as amended, House print number 247 at second reading. I wanted to propose a firm inclusion for Tuesday, October 22, but since there are already quite a few points, I propose that Tuesday, November 5, as the first item in the meeting. The amendment to the Trade Act, which I mentioned, relates to the transfer of tourist guide activities from a free trade between trades bound, virtually. it is proposed that the establishment of an authorisation for this activity be linked to appropriate education and, where appropriate, professional qualifications. This amendment arrived in the Chamber of Deputies more than a year ago, respectively. July last year. Since this is a very sensitive intervention in business and especially the conditions for the activities of guides, a number of meetings, round tables and meetings have been held since then, where the aspects of this step have been dealt very comprehensively and in detail, and we have discussed in detail the impacts on the business environment. I myself, as chair of the Sub-Committee on Tourism, have had dozens of meetings with various representatives of the associations, guides and translators themselves, and I dare say that after these large and large discussions, we have found a compromise in the form of amendments tabled to this press and waiting for discussion. The reason that leads me to place this point is that there have been practically ten years of discussion on the adjustment of the guide's activities and two unconciliable camps of supporters and opponents have always been found. After those ten years of discussion, there was finally a compromise, where both of these camps are almost satisfied, and they are really waiting for the quickest possible solution to this age-old problem. I confess that I myself am already nervous that this law is not being negotiated, because we all know the length of the legislative process, and today there is a risk that the law would be discussed just before the start of the summer tourist season next year, which would literally and to the letter would be a shock for all guides who would have to meet the conditions for their activities and would quickly overwhelm the competent authority with requests. Moreover, we would put entrepreneurs themselves in a very unpleasant situation. I will repeat once again: item 23, House press 247, solid inclusion as the first item at the meeting on 5 November. I beg you to support this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u19	Thank you. I've noticed your proposal. Next in line is Mrs Jana Černochová, Mr Jiří Ventruba will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u20	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose here the firm inclusion of item 130 of the approved agenda, which is the House Press 425, the proposal of Members Jana Černochová, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 222/1999 Coll., on the securing of defence of the Czech Republic, as amended, for today as the first item. This is the proposal of the amendment, which was submitted in March this year, on the anniversary of our accession to NATO, for the third time, which aims to anchor the state's legislative obligation to issue funds of 2% of GDP in defence of the country at the latest from 2024, which is our alliance commitment to which the Czech Republic has signed up. [[10.00 hours]] The Government has submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a draft state budget for 2020. Despite the nominal increase in defence expenditure in this proposal, this is unfortunately a disappointment, as these expenditures do not correspond to what was promised in last year's budgetary perspective approved with the budget for 2019, and the defence will receive almost one billion less in the next year than this outlook predicted...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u21	You are right, Madame, I was about to do this because we are discussing changes to the agenda. We have over 30 applications here. [[Ambassador Chvojka from the area in front of the table of stenographers: How many?]] Over 30 applications. If you do not want to focus on the proposals for changing the agenda, please do so in the lobby, but who you are inside, so please calm down. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u22	Government officials have repeatedly declared the objective of achieving defence spending of 2% of GDP by 2024, which, I repeat, we have committed ourselves to within NATO. Yet, in order to achieve this goal, the government is doing little, and there is no way that the rate of growth in the defence budget is responding to it. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš this week, when he attended the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, on this occasion he heard that, in view of the development of security in the world, the Czech Republic must arm itself and recruit new soldiers that it must catch up with the deficit in defence and years of stagnation. I would like to say to the Prime Minister that this will not be possible without an adequate increase in the financial framework, aside from the fact that during these years of stagnation, particularly the longest-serving Minister of Defence, who happened to be from YES, and it was Mr Martin Stropnický. [[Noise in the hall.]] The army awaits key modernization and acquisitions in the billions of crowns in the coming years, which we all know very well, there is also a need to invest large funds in neglected infrastructure. Unfortunately, in the coming years, however, it cannot be relied upon that the economy will grow at the rate it has been, and I am very concerned that the defence can be the first to strike if it is necessary to save. And if the government wants to maintain its generous and wasteful policies that it pursues...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u23	And I don't see that, so I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u24	It is also necessary, therefore, that there is a guarantee that the defence will have what to finance these investments from, and that it will be able to plan and implement them without fear. The approval of that amendment is a guarantee that can be adopted very quickly, as it is a simple measure that can be approved at first reading. Last but not least, the guarantee of 2% of GDP would be a clear declaration that the Czech Republic, with its defence and its participation in the collective defence system, really means that it does not want to be one of the so-called stowaways and that it wants to fully assume its obligations. [[Noise in the hall.]] I would therefore like to ask you, my fellow Members, for these reasons, to give priority to this amendment and to support it. As I said before, it would be ideal if we could make it tonight's first point, if not, I suggest we discuss it next Friday as the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u25	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. First, I will read the apology of Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, who apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for working reasons for the whole day of the hearing. Jiří Ventruba, who is reporting for the debate to change the agenda of the meeting, is also registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, fellow Members, allow me to propose the inclusion of a new item in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting for next Thursday 24. 10 p.m. at 11.00 p.m., a point called Preventing Accidents on the repaired D1 motorway. I'm rationalizing this by piling up horrible tragic accidents with deaths and severe injuries after accidents in the last few days. I am thinking in particular of the recent Sunday tragedy in the direction of Brno, when around 19 o'clock the palm oil tanker turned on its side over both lanes and started to burn. She was hit by four cars, and some of them got excited. The driver of one of the cars burned down. People from crashed and burning cars then initially pulled themselves wounded and wedged in cars, because rescuers along the road, this is ambulances, firemen and police, were unable to get to the crash at all. According to the videos provided by the paramedics to the media, they couldn't get to the crash especially because of the trucks standing next to each other, even there was a shot of three of them next to each other. The cars moved somehow, the trucks didn't have a chance to move any further. In this accident he was injured, still hit by an incoming car, a police officer who diverted traffic several kilometers before the accident. Due to the leaked oil, the road was sliding, the fat was also in the sewers, and in the fire the surface of the highway was damaged, which had been complicated for a long time, roadmen had to repair the road temporarily, asphalted even with the heat of cracked concrete plates. The damage in the coming days and weeks, they said experts, assess experts, and then they do check-ups and so on, which means it's still for a long time. The highway was closed for many hours until the following day. Since this crash they've been on D1, and you know it yourself well, another crash. Also this morning the highway to Brno before Brno is closed again. And why am I talking about this? Because the weather, as they say, is fast approaching the time when roadmen will be caught up again. Let's remember what happened last year when the temperatures got close to zero, and then what happened when the first snow hit. It is clear to me that the pace and manner in which this central highway is being repaired will not improve its state in any time soon. It is therefore necessary not only for the Ministry of Transport but also for the Ministry of the Interior to take urgent measures to minimise the risks of accidents, injuries, deaths and even other tragic events in common. What do I mean by that? It is clear that the Ministry of Transport should remove deadlines where possible, which it does, and especially in well-known crisis sections. But even the Ministry of the Interior should significantly strengthen the traffic police. On roads and highways, it's not just surveillance by cameras, but I think it's just the presence of police cars, but the masked speed meters, but really police cars and motorbikes in the colors of the police. In the media, there are videos of the dangerous behaviour of drivers, but even if we are on this highway sometimes, we can see that they are mainly, and this is what our police say, the drivers of foreigners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u27	Mr. Ambassador, your five-minute draft time is over. Your proposal is recorded at 24. 10:00 p.m. We will continue with Mr Petr Dolínek's speech, Mr Ivan Adamec will prepare. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place points No. 245, 246, 247, 248, 249 and 250, which is the report on the activities and management of Czech Television for 2016, 2017 and 2018, as fixed points for next Thursday, for points 290, 291 292, the first three points concern the Czech National Bank, inflation and the like, so Governor Rusnok counts on this, so out of respect for those points, with point 245 being the fourth point, 246 as the fifth point, 247 as the sixth point, 248 as the seventh point, 249 as the eighth point and 250 as the ninth point. This means to include it as basically the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth points of Thursday's negotiations, including, where appropriate, an agreement on the regime, in order to act even after oral interventions. I think it was clear that the discussion, which took place for the third time yesterday, had a total of almost nine hours, had already reached the stage when we were ready to vote next week on at least the first reports. Thank you for the possible support of the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u29	Thank you for the proposal and for keeping up with the time to propose a change of programme. It's been recorded. Mr Ivan Adamec will now appear, Mr Karel Krejza will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, allow me to read here the solid inclusion of paragraph No. 141, it's House Press 467. It is a parliamentary proposal of the opposition of Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others to issue a law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic and Amendments to Certain Acts, as amended. To put it briefly, it's a non-zero tolerance of alcohol for drivers up to 0.5 hundredths of perm... percent of perm, so 5 perm, except for the risk groups of drivers. I will give you a little introduction to the content, so that you know, and also so that we can finally discuss the subject properly and end the debate so that we don't get into such discussions as when there was a water law or a ride on wine routes. So specifically what's going on in there. A new paragraph shall be inserted in Section 5 of the driver's obligation. (4) The driver shall be deemed to have been affected by alcohol within the meaning of Section 5 (1) (a) and (b). Article 4 (1) (a) (b) if: (a) the alcoholic strength in the driver's blood sample exceeds 0 per mile, if it is the driver who, first, drives a tram or vehicle classified in category C1, C, D1, D or T, or drives a combination of vehicles classified in category B+E, C1+E, C+E, D1+E or D+E, or drives a vehicle classified in category B or B1 for the purpose of the contractual carriage of persons or goods carried out for payment, or drives a vehicle and is also a person under 21 years of age, or drives a vehicle and is in possession of a driving licence for less than 24 months or a person who has lost a driving licence during the last 24 months, or a person who has been suspended during the last 24 months of the driving authorisation, or the alcohol content of the driver's blood sample exceeds 0,5 per mile when it is a driver riding or driving a vehicle in cases not specified in Section 5 (1) (a) Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) a). Why do the translators translate this novel? The arguments are as follows: the Czech Republic is one of only four EU Member States with zero tolerance of alcohol. Besides us, it is Slovakia, Romania and Hungary. Most other countries have a tolerance of up to half a mile, and in some countries - Malta, Great Britain - this line is even higher. Furthermore, there is no direct consideration between the tolerance of a small amount of alcohol in the driver's blood and the number of road accidents victims. Countries with zero tolerance are among the countries with the largest number of road accidents per 1 million inhabitants, Romania 96, Hungary 64, Czech Republic 62, Slovakia 46, while the United Kingdom is leading the rankings of the safest countries with 28 victims per 1 million, followed by Denmark 30 and Ireland 31. There were seven car accidents in the Czech Republic last year with life victims, where alcohol was found in the driver up to half a mile. For comparison, the lack of advantage in the ride had 18 victims in 2018, taking a counter-direction of 79 victims on life. According to the publication of the Czech Technology Platform for Food, countries that tolerate low doses of alcohol do not show higher initiation of accidents than countries with zero tolerance. Other factors, such as the quality of transport infrastructure, the condition of the fleet, the work of the police and so on, have a major impact on the severity of traffic accidents. According to a number of studies, the amount of alcohol up to half a mile has no significant effect on the ability to control the vehicle. On the contrary, much more of these competences reduce stress, sleeplessness, drug consumption, and general health. At the same time, the submitters also propose the maintenance of zero tolerance of blood alcohol for risk groups of drivers. I've been talking about those. And, of course, I'll remind you that it involves, like, taxi drivers, tram drivers, and those who are inexperienced drivers. At the same time, the proposers expect an increase in penalties for drivers exceeding the limit of half a promile. Let me put it this way. We need to discuss this, we need to talk about it. Therefore, I propose that we place this parliamentary bill firmly for the next Tuesday afternoon, if there are fixed points, then for the fixed points, or on Friday after the third reading, again as the first point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u31	Thank you for keeping up with the opening words. Mr Karel Krejza has been recorded and will speak, and Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared. Before it hits the counter, I note that Marek Výborný votes with replacement card No. 18. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you very politely to refer to paragraph 65, it is the Labour Code, House Press 159. I think one of my previous speakers has already asked for this. In the event that this point fails to be included according to his wishes, I suggest that he be placed next Friday as the second point of our negotiations. Short justification. I think that not only the new responsibilities that are being imposed on our citizens by the work of this honourable House are what we should be doing for citizens, but also the small simplification of life certainly deserves our citizens, and I think that a small amendment that I would like to prepare for this Code of Labor, which concerns the Official Examinations, would certainly make lives easier for many of you. What's going on? Each of us, I don't believe that there's anyone here who wouldn't have a driving license at least for a passenger car, no one's checking in, so I assume that's the case, many of you have business vehicles available, and they're forced to undergo regular driving skills tests every year, so the so-called referral exams that consist in you running a car test on your computer, it takes you 20 minutes, then you take a sharp test, you get 100 percent of the points, because that test is the same as the auto test, so all education or help, or improving the ability to drive a car is zero. However, we do not know what will happen when you forget this mandatory training, for example in the event of an accident, how the insurance company will behave, how your employer will behave. And while I think that you don't have to go through this at all with unprofessional drivers, that is, you drive a personal vehicle, just like you drive your family every day, maybe every week, you can give your colleagues a ride, and you don't need any more training to do that, which really doesn't help you improve your skills. [[10.20 hours]] After all, this morning, I also noted a duty that some colleagues neglected. And I think that duty is useless. And I was sorry - my colleague can't hear me here - but the omission to record some part of his property in your property return, which you have in publicly available resources, led to a fine and led to this being handled by journalists. I think that this is one of the small examples of how we should probably not proceed, and I think that giving people the opportunity to simplify life, reduce duty is what could help all people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u33	Thank you for the suggestion. It's marked. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will speak. Mr Stanislav Blaha will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is going on here is really an attempt to resolve the situation that is repeated every week in the Chamber of Deputies, because we have so many prints that we will not actually handle most of them. [[in the hall is only Minister Schiller and Minister Zaorálek]] I think this is a situation that requires us to only discuss the thousands that are meaningful, which are necessary at that acute stage and which will move our legislation and the functioning of the state forward. Considering all these circumstances, I have said to myself that what seems to be redundant at the moment, or that is not essential for further operation, is that we must exclude such prints from the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations. I therefore propose that the House press number 581 be removed from this meeting of this honored House. The House Press 518 is a government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended. [[Act on Medicines]] In the annotation of this law, it is said that the main objective of this amendment is to ensure the availability of medicinal products for patients in pharmacies in the form of a so-called allergenic system, which in a legally defined situation ensures the delivery of a particular important medicinal product to a specific pharmacy. The fact is that the lack of medication or the inability to provide the medicine in the pharmacy for the patient appears, but it is not very common. Because of the low prices of pharmaceuticals that are implemented through strict price regulation, some medicinal products placed on the Czech market are significantly cheaper than others from economically stronger countries. Therefore, such medicine becomes attractive for the so-called reexport, i.e. export of packaging destined for the Czech Republic to other countries, and thus there may be a lack of important medicines. And the proposed law is to prevent it. The allergenic system should work so that the marketing authorisation holder of the medicinal product operates an electronic information system for ordering prescribed medicinal products for human use and ensures the electronic receipt of orders for medicines sent by the pharmacy in continuous operation, and, in case of a failure, the holder must arrange for the receipt of orders in another verifiable form, such as by e-mail. [[unintelligible]] Furthermore, there is talk about how the pharmacy will obtain a medicinal product from the distributor, etc., etc. It is a typical law that solves a matter that is not currently supermergent, and above all it is a demonstration of a law that will need a large number of discussions in this House and takes a lot of time in committee or committees and takes a lot of time here in plenary. That time should be used for laws that are more necessary than this law. There's a lot of trouble. The competition authority insists that there is no assessment of the impact on the protection of personal data. The medical chamber says that the authorisation to write a prescription must be possible other than by electronic means. The Czech pharmacy chamber is convinced that the allergenic system will require a double visit by the patient to the pharmacy - the first to transmit the identifier and the second to release the medicine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u35	Mr. Ambassador, you've had your time to make a motion. It is noted - the elimination of printing 581 about medicines. Thank you for the suggestion. Before we go any further, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. For health reasons, she apologizes from today's meeting day, Mrs Věra Kovářová. The next performer is Stanislav Blaha. Martin Baxa will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u36	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues before me have repeatedly stated that we have a number of points on the agenda, in particular opposition proposals which are not being received, or willfully do not want to get to them. Nevertheless, I will allow myself to complete our programme in my proposal. The reason is quite serious, because yesterday on the subcommittee for transport we were dealing with the issue of railway crossings, more precisely tragic accidents at these level crossings. Therefore, I would like to ask for the inclusion of the Government's Information on the Railway Infrastructure Administration budget for 2020 and, consequently, its fixed classification, because this is linked to the budget, as the first point of today's programme, if for some reason it had not been approved, as the first point on Tuesday, or alternatively as a fixed point after the other points included for next Tuesday. I suppose you're interested in the reason for my proposal. I must say that, in addition to seeing statistics on tragic accidents, there was one piece of information that literally shocked me during the presentation of the director of SŽDC Svoboda. The information is that the SŽDC's draft budget for next year is being cut against this year, so money for so much needed measures to prevent the lives of our citizens from being undermined at railway crossings will simply not be financially covered. Let me quote a little bit from the statistics. Compared to last year, when 32 people were killed at our railway crossings, in the first nine months of this year this happened in a total of 28 cases, an increase of 27 percent. The causes of accidents at railway crossings resulting from the conclusions of the accident investigation: the largest share of accidents is caused by carelessness - we can significantly reduce the number of such accidents here, and, in the latter case, by violating road traffic rules, for example due to higher speed, lack of respect for signalling etc. We can't defend ourselves very effectively here, but of course we need to deploy elements of repression here. [[10.30 hours]] One of the measures to reduce the accident rate is the interference of crossings. It is clear that we have a number of unnecessary railway crossings, where agricultural technology in particular causes collision situations. At the same time, it is important to apply technical and technological measures, increase the level of safety of railway crossings, additional technical measures on the side of SŽDC or road operators, while increasing the attention of road users by introducing preventive elements of repression. According to SŽDC's communication, the design of individual crossings is actively designed for interference. Here it often comes down to resistance from local politicians. I am aware, of course, that the interference of crossings causes an obstacle in the territory and you can be a very sensitive matter, but at the same time, what I want to focus on is increasing the level of safety of level crossings, and here if I come out of the statistics very quickly, an amount of CZK 800 million is spent each year. The total cost of reconstruction of all railway crossings and their equipment with barriers is estimated at CZK 67 to 75 billion. That's just part of SŽDC's assignment. I can also mention so many declared high-speed lines, which seem to be a very important addition to, for example, the motorway network, the reconstruction of existing lines, which we know are often in inadequate condition and are overloaded, the modernisation of the railway station and the fact that our railway -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u37	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a motion is over. It is recorded - Tuesday 22. 10. on fixed points. Mr Martin Baxa will now appear, Mr Jan Zahradník will prepare. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u38	Thank you. Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Madam Secretary, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a new item to be put on the agenda for this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I propose it for next Friday, and the full title of this item is Information about the possibilities of compensation for the growing mandatorial expenditure of municipalities and regions as founders of cultural contribution organisations resulting from the increase in salaries under the Government's payroll regulation. The title, ladies and gentlemen, maybe a bit long or crooked, but there is a very serious problem behind it, and I think to some extent it can be said that some degree of patience from the authorities has already flowed. What was the impulse that I proposed it today on the agenda for this meeting? It is that I got into my hand yesterday with the chapter notebook, i.e. the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2020, and I looked into some parts of it and I would say almost popularly that when I read something, soot exploded in me and I christened the draft budget with the term Staňkův's revenge, because this draft budget was still being prepared by Mr. ex-minister Antonín Staněk, and I just feel that he wanted to express his frustration over his departure from office towards those who, in his opinion, might have been able to do so. What do I mean, specifically? In the sub-programme or in the programme of state support for professional theatres, symphony orchestras and choirs, which, ladies and gentlemen, is a key instrument for promoting self-government in the field of culture, is proposed in this budget of 130 million. And this, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there is an amount that is almost half the same as the Ministry's adjusted budget for this year, where I think it was 210 million, and the approved budget for this year, where there were originally 160 million. Or, if I recapitulate it, the lack of CZK 160 million from last year under great pressure from the professional public and our Members, Minister Staněk, has raised several tens of millions in order, but in this proposal, which is now being discussed in the House, there are only 130 million. Why do I say merely? The point is that in recent years, employees' salaries in culture, those covered by the government's wage regulation, have been rising significantly. I want to make it clear that the increase in these salaries is correct. A number of employees in the field of culture have worked and may still be working for totally undignified salaries. So, since 2015, these salaries have been rising significantly, of course, not only in the context of the good will of the governments at the time to help them, especially the governments of Bohuslav Sobotka, but also in an effort to gain political points, but each increase under the government's regulations for contribution organisations from their pockets has been paid by the municipalities and paid by the regions. The state compensation for these salary increases was actually poor and this draft budget of the Ministry of Culture for next year tells us: municipalities and regions, not only pay it out of your own pockets again, but the little that comes from the state budget will be reduced. I'm protesting it. Therefore, I demand information from the government on how this can be compensated because, in my view, regional culture is the key, such as a key pillar, a fundamental for culture in the regions. Many of these cultural institutions, I would also mention the cultural institutions of the city, which I am the mayor of, the Josef Kajetán Tyl Theatre, the Alfa Theatre, is clearly superlocal or over-regional, but the strength and ability of self-government to further compensate for what the state places on them is simply approaching its end. Of course, it is true that in recent years revenue has grown from the budgetary determination of taxes, but if we see somewhere on the horizon of the approaching economic crisis, then what will happen? Then they will simply have to face some restrictions or even cuts, and we can imagine the ways in which such cuts can be made. I don't want it, but I want to hear from the government now what it will do for the benefit of the authorities to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u39	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for your proposal. It is recorded on today's day, i.e. information from the government on the possibilities of compensation for increasing regional spending. Mr Jan Zahradník will now prepare Mr Jan Bauer. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u40	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, from previous speeches by my colleagues, it is clear that the government coalition, the government, the leadership of the House actually leaves many proposals that have emerged from the opposition, lie down, do not place them on the agenda and do not give the House the opportunity to discuss these proposals. But not only the opposition's proposals remain neglected by the government coalition, but they are the very proposals that have emerged from their ministries. One such material, which has been parked in the program for a slow year, is: Report on the state of the environment of the Czech Republic in 2017, which was created by the Ministry of Environment and which was approved by the government a year ago. As you can see, Minister Brabco doesn't care if we get to know the environmental report, so he doesn't put it on the agenda. I would therefore like, Mr Vice-President, to propose that item 267, the House Press 355, be placed on the agenda for next Thursday, 24 October, for 11 hours, i.e. for a time after the completion of written interventions. It is a traditional place in our agenda where reports and various international treaties are included. The report has already undergone its legislative process, which precedes its inclusion on the House's agenda. The government approved it as well a year ago, 20. 11. 2018, and the Committee on the Environment at the beginning of this year recommended that the House take note of it, so there is nothing to prevent us from dealing with this report. [[10.40 hours]] An agreement has already been made in the previous parliamentary term, according to which every two years the report is presented in its extensive form. In odd years there are more brief reports. This 2017 report is one of the more brief ones. It is about 60 pages, and none of us will be too bothered to look into it and possibly study it all, or what will be of interest to us according to our focus, to read and then, if necessary, to speak in the debate. There is the main message presented by the report that says that due to technological development and implementation of elementary measures the environmental burden has fallen in 2017, despite the fact that the Czech economy has grown, which is, of course, a gratifying phenomenon that may be in sharp conflict with what many environmental and climate alarmists are haunting us with. A kind of climate collapse, environmental collapse, and the fatal consequences it will have for society's life. I would like to mention one more thing, which I think is important. The report is actually presented by an organisation which is an organisation of the Ministry of Environment, CENIA, an environmental agency that receives in the budget proposed by the Ministry of Finance approximately CZK 60 million each year for its annual operation. The Agency has prepared the report quite carefully and it would deserve us to appreciate its work by discussing its proposal here properly. I have said, I hope you will record it, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u41	Thank you for keeping time. Now, then, Mr Jan Bauer. Before it arrives, I state the apology of Mrs Tereza Hyťhová and Mr Dominik Feri from today's meeting to the end of the day. Now, then, Mr Jan Bauer, Mr Petr Gazdík will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u42	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for one change on the agenda of the current meeting. I think this proposal could find your support for both the opposition and the government, because it has its ratio. I propose to assign parenting, which is House press number 490, as today's first superpoint, in quotation marks, today's meeting day. Without wanting to reduce the importance and importance of individual legislative standards, whether government or MPs, I see two laws on the current agenda, which I personally consider to be really crucial and fundamental, for one simple reason. If both of these laws are passed, they will immediately and fundamentally affect people's daily lives in the Czech Republic. The first standard is the tax package, which the government wants to increase tax burden in the Czech Republic and collect more money from people's pockets, the second standard is the amendment to the Act on State Social Support, which finally raises parental contribution to families with children after months of promises. From an important point of view, these are fundamental standards. However, from the point of view of their support and the negotiation process, there is a huge difference between them. While a long debate can still be expected on tax issues over the various proposed changes and the political conflict between the government and the opposition, the situation in parents is diametrically different. From the outset, the government has secured support for the opposition, and I believe that we will please the parents of the increased parent together, regardless of whether we are sitting in parliament for the government or for the opposition party. Of course, there will also be a debate to raise parents, in my opinion, especially given the fact that the House government eventually arrived in its chopped variant, which is probably at the edge of constitutionality and quite possibly behind it. In fact, some 20 percent of families who were unlucky enough to have exhausted their parents in an accelerated regime have been excluded from their claims for a newly established amount of parental allowance, even though they are raising a child of the same age who is entitled to support as those who still benefit from the parental allowance. The reasons that caused them to pump faster are huge quantities and differ in every particular case, as I had the opportunity to talk to them. But it doesn't apply at all that moms from such families are automatically back at work making money. We will therefore have to deal with the debate over the various amendments that seek to remedy this situation and achieve a more equal and fairer model of parental increase, or in other ways correct it. I am, of course, referring not only to my own amendment, which addresses this very problem, but also to other proposals, such as the proposal by Mrs Richterová, Mrs Golasowská, including Mrs Juchelka and others. I would also like to remind you that the debate may well be limited not only to parents, because two amendments have also been tabled to adjust the payment of the housing contribution and to prevent its abuse. We will have to decide whether and which of the proposals we will support, whether it will be a proposal by Mrs Jana Pastuchová, or a proposal by Mrs Richterová. We may therefore also have a long debate over the State Social Support Act. However, in my opinion, the debate will be substantive and I believe that rational, and will be led by our joint effort to discuss and agree with the increased parenting. After all, thousands of families and moms are waiting for it. For this reason, as I said at the beginning, I propose that the Government's proposal for a State Social Support Act be put in place, it is the House's Press 490, before today's first and firmly classified item in the Government's bill, which amends certain laws in the field of taxation and in the context of increasing the revenues of public budgets, House's Press No. 509. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I thank you in advance for the possible support of this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u43	I thank Mr Bauer for his proposal. He's been marked. We will continue with Mr. Petr Gazdík's application. Mr. Jan Farský will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u44	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you for an additional nomination of this bill. This is a bill amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic, as amended, and Decree No. 31/2001 Coll., on driver's licenses and on driver's register, it is Parliament's press 292, and I ask that it be put on the agenda of this meeting for next Thursday. I would like to submit, however, and thus justify the request for the prioritization of this House press, that there is no certainty in its discussion, with the Czech Government expressing a positive opinion on it last November, so we did not make time for it almost a year. I am all the more sorry if we are now in a great hurry to approve the tax package, with which approval this government is already counting on in its draft state budget for next year. I note that the draft law which I would like to put forward is the draft law on road traffic No. 361/2000 Coll., has its reasons, and especially the honourable Minister of Finance, I would like to point out that, even in this case, there is no opposition or senatorial filth, but a completely rational bill. Its essence is quite simple. That's all the more incomprehensible why we haven't even started negotiations on this land. [[10.50 hours]] The purpose of the bill is to regulate the granting of a driving licence for applicants applying for a driving licence for the first time at all by the possibility of shortening the period for issue to five days, while at the same time aligning the rules for issuing a driving licence with regard to the possibility to request a reduction in the period for issuing a driving licence for all applicants. The reduced period for issuing a driving licence within five working days is now limited to the exchange of a driving licence and, where appropriate, an extension of another group. The problem is that the accelerated issue cannot be used in the first application for a driving licence because the applicant also applies for a driving licence. Therefore, as far as new drivers are concerned, they are asking not only for the simple issue of a driving licence but, above all, for the driving licence itself. The application shall be accompanied, inter alia, by evidence of professional competence obtained at the time of completion of a test which may not be more than six months old and the Authority shall subsequently examine in the databases whether the applicant has been withdrawn from the driving licence. New drivers must therefore expect a standard period of 20 days after completion of the driving school and think of the fact that they are not entitled to drive until they have taken over the driving licence at the competent authority of the driving register. A legal solution that would allow applicants for a driving licence who successfully completed the final driving test to issue a driving licence within a short period of time, unfortunately, does not exist at the present time. The reason for this is that the new applicant is not yet checked in the database, so there is a certain risk that it could be a person with an already withdrawn driving licence. However, it is a question of why the competent authority of the first applicants is unable to verify the information in the Czech database more quickly and issue a separate proper card within a short period of time, especially when the facts from other countries are not normally verified by the competent authority and rely on an honest declaration. At present, there is no European interconnected electronic system and the applicant does not have the fact that he is not a holder of a valid driving licence granted by another Member State and that another Member State is not subject to a prohibition on driving, or that his driving licence has not been suspended or withdrawn, or that the period for which the prohibition was imposed or the period for re-certification of the driving licence has already expired, is demonstrated by an honest declaration, see Section 92 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (e) this Road Act. The proposed bill therefore proposes to grant a driving licence to the applicant without delay after the application has been lodged if the applicant fulfils the conditions laid down by law. The municipal authority of the municipality with extended application for approval of this law will be able to immediately verify the required information and the applicant on request and on the basis of a newly submitted declaration of honour that the applicant has not been subject to a prohibition or that the period of such prohibition has expired. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to propose. It's on Thursday 11 o'clock. Now Mr Jan Farský, first to print 99 - has two applications - then to print 172. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. The first press that I would like to draw your attention to and where I would ask for your support is the press that was submitted to the House in October last year, and it is a pretty crucial press that also concerns the budget, because it concerns the development of regions in the Czech Republic, which according to economists, prominent economists, is one of the brakes on the economic growth of the Czech Republic. It's press 313, item 99 of the meeting, and I propose his inclusion for this Tuesday, Tuesday 22. 10 to 16.15 hours. It is a press that responds to the fact that in recent years the Czech Republic has experienced a large opening of scissors between the center and regions, that Prague naturally, like any centre - and at the time of urbanization it is a world trend - is growing, growing, but at the same time it is happening that regions are poorer. And poor both from the point of view of gross domestic product per capita and poor from the point of view of the educational structure of the population. So we have regions in the Czech Republic, which are in one third of Prague's GDP and which have only a quarter of the educated population compared to Prague. You can also read the result in the European Commission report, which evaluated the progress of the Czech Republic over recent years, where you will look at the map of our Republic and regions that belong to it, which is processed according to the development of the so-called. NUTS II, that is to say, the regions under which development from the European Union's cohesion funds is financed. And there you will find that the only region in both the territory of the Czech Republic and the border territory of Slovakia, Poland and Germany and Austria, the only region that has actually fallen in GDP in recent years, is the region of the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region. This is one of the consequences of concentrating the wealth of the Czech Republic into Prague, and Prague is already starting to have trouble with it itself. You know how property prices are rising here, that it is no longer possible for a normal average earner to reach housing in Prague. You know the daily problems with commuting in traffic jams, which make Prague almost a fortress, which is impossible to get into. Yet the solution is so simple, quickly returnable and long-term for the whole Czech Republic, including Prague, beneficial economically, socially, socially, culturally, in all areas. The proposal of the Mayors and Independents is to move 23 central government offices to regional cities. We mean to move about 5,000 jobs to regional centres, from which they can perform the service that they are doing today from the centre in Prague, without reducing quality without restricting ordinary citizens in any way. It is a moment that will lead to an increase in the educational structure in the regions, because these offices are usually used by people with higher education and at least secondary education, it is a way to only get about CZK 3 billion on their salaries in the regions, and it is a way of achieving an increase in the quality of education in this area, because naturally these people are often parents and they want the best education for their children, and when they force it for their children in classrooms, they also get it for other children in that class. I therefore ask you to support this bill, which is beneficial for the future of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u47	Mr. Ambassador, your time for this is over. [[unintelligible]] You've got print 313 on 23. 10. 2019. You have a second application for press 172. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u48	Thank you. It's press 551, to be exact, and point 172 of this meeting, where I'd like to ask you for a solid post-point transfer of authorities, if that's what I'd like to call it. It is a press that has a very interesting journey through the Chamber of Deputies and the legislative process. I even think that he is quite unique in this and that what is happening to him now is something that is happening for the first time in the Chamber of Deputies in 30 years. I didn't get the same example. It is a law that responded to the fact that, in June of this year, a pregnant murderer was released in prison about a year later, who was sentenced to 30 years for a conspiracy murder, a perfect murder, when the previous few attempts failed. Today's penal code says that if a woman becomes pregnant in prison, she must be released, regardless of the circumstances, and remain out of prison until the year of the child's age. This murderer in 2017 with her partner, who was sentenced to 28 years in prison, murdered a man for CZK 34,000, dumped his body in corn. They were tracked down, confessed, found, convicted, and reported that her actions - it is impossible to rule out his repetition. He's a threat to his surroundings, in other words. [[11.00 hours]] When this case happened in June of this year and she was released, the judges who released it said: we consider it a mistake of the law, because such a person should not go out. Mrs. Benešová's response was that the penal code would not change because of this, because it should not change because of individual cases. I totally agree with her. Indeed, we should not enter the law on individual cases. But at the same time explain it to the people of Jilemnick, Vrchlabsko, who live in the neighborhood of this woman, know her because her appearance in the media has been everywhere, see her with a stroller, and she just moves there without any supervision on that street, reports are known, and raise children in the neighborhood of such a woman who is supposed to do another 28 years in prison. When the secretary said that she was simply not going to deal with it, we, after a great deal of thought, because her argument gives her head and heel that there are no laws to change because of individual cases, we have come to the conclusion that it is really necessary to make an adjustment. The adjustment is very simple. In the law, you release it, and replace it with one paragraph, that the President of the Senate may, for serious reasons, suspend the sentence for the necessary period of time to the pregnant woman or the mother of a child under one year of age. It's such a simple adjustment. That's why we handed it over in July. And now for the peculiarity. At the end of July, the government met, and the government agreed to this solution without any further comments, without any further complaints. Nothing happened until early September, we could see the press conference of the Minister from Světlá nad Sázavou, from prison, where she said how urgent and immediate this problem needs to be resolved, that such people threaten their surroundings and that it is necessary to give the courts the opportunity to keep them in prison. The urgent solution prepared by the Justice Department, we still haven't seen it. Meanwhile, the pregnant murderer gave birth and will return to prison at the end of August next year. At the same time, however, her case gives instructions to others who are in prison. And by delaying this solution, we allow other killers to walk the streets. And I think it's just wrong. The solution that this can have, and very quickly, is - and now a piece of legislation - that we will open this law, I proposed it in the 90s to be approved at one meeting. We'll open up, we'll go to the committees, where we'll cut the negotiations to 30 days. At the same time, the Justice Department will prepare its opposing proposal and it will be incorporated and in two months we can have the whole law resolved. Please support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u49	Thank you. Time's up. Another application to amend the approved agenda is Mr Martin Kupka. Before the Member arrives, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomáš Hanzel apologizes from 11.30 today for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a new point for still meetings, where it should be the information of the Minister of Education on the solution of the shortage of places in primary schools around large cities. We have already quite precisely mapped out how much of the problem in the vicinity of large cities is the lack of school capacity. I have repeatedly pointed out the problem to the Ministry of Education, unfortunately there will be no grant title for the years to come that would allow this serious problem to be solved. For an idea of the scale of the problem, just a basic estimate means that in the next four years it would be necessary to invest up to CZK 5 billion in the construction of new schools only in the vicinity of Prague. At a time when the surroundings of Prague, small towns, small villages will not have the assistance of the state, there will be a very serious problem for both municipalities and cities and, of course, for the state, how to ensure compulsory school attendance for children. Unfortunately, at the moment there is no conceptual material, a survey that would be able to capture current developments in the suburb of large cities, which could precisely quantify from the level of the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Finance, what is the real need, how the Czech Republic will deal with this problem, where precisely those schools should arise. Fortunately, in some places, mayors are looking for solutions, putting together associations of municipalities so that they can deal with the problem at all. But without the ancillary hand of the state, the problem is really unsolvable. The scope of only around Prague 5 billion crowns in the next four years, however, necessarily requires an active step, cooperation of individual resorts in order to get the funds and grant programs prepared. Without these basic instruments being available, it is impossible to deal with the problem of the lack of capacity of schools around Prague. I would like to propose this point in a situation where I have repeatedly tried to initiate negotiations with the Minister of Education, when I tried to show how much of the problem it is in the vicinity of the major cities and that, in order to address the basic obligation of municipalities, but at the same time the basic needs of families are absolutely necessary, so far no space has been found on the side of the resort and the agreed meeting has passed away. I consider more extensive information from the Minister of Education to be necessary for us to be able to deal with the problem in the future so that we can quantify it. And what's important is there's no way that there's a call for a simple solution for all who come. I am convinced that the State should also have the ambition to organise construction and help where there will be an agreement, where there will be an outlook, where there will also be a real idea of what the demographic situation is in place and what the demographic estimate of future years is. The previous programmes of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education have already included the obligation of those municipalities to base on demographic studies, to monitor what it means, what it can mean in the coming years. However, I believe that it is important for the Ministry of Education, in cooperation with the regions as well as in cooperation with the municipalities, to prepare a clear study, the outlook, the concept of how the funds from the state budget will be released, what rules will apply to municipalities and cities, or associations of municipalities and cities, in order not to grow uncoordinatedly two small schools next to each other, but that efforts will be brought together in this regard and that the construction of those schools will be directed not only to build capacity, but also to ensure that the future school can provide the best possible training in that future capacity. Because only the funds of the building alone will still not ensure that children receive adequate education there as well. So I would like to propose a new point for Tuesday afternoon next week, which would give us an answer to how the Ministry of Education, as the most competent resort in this area, deals with the necessary funding to build sufficient primary school capacity around large cities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u51	Thank you, I'll just make sure for the vote, Mr. Ambassador, which means we'll put a new point on Tuesday afternoon without specifying the time or order. Yes, I understand. Thank you. Next, Mr Petr Bendl will make a proposal to amend the approved agenda for the meeting, and Mrs Pekarová Adamová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to propose a new item on the agenda of this meeting, a point which we have already approved at the last meeting, unfortunately it has not been discussed. I would draw your attention to the situation that is going on in the agricultural sector, in an area that is plagued by many farmers in the Republic, and this is the situation concerning the overgrowth of the field vole. We have visited the agricultural committee in areas that are so affected, and I must stress that if we do not help quickly, this will pose huge existential problems for many farmers, because it is quite obvious that livestock will not be able to support financial compensation in any way. Just to give you an idea, we were in a field where the voles managed to move about eight tons of grain underground on 70 hectares, which is not an entirely insignificant thing, and when the farm has a thousand head of cattle, it is clear to them that the fodder grain will not be, and if it attacks the voles, which has happened, even the areas where the alfalfa was planted, then they will simply stand before the problem radically restricting the herd of cattle. And I think it's nobody's wish, and we have a chance to deal with this situation. This is also illustrated by the resolution of the Agricultural Committee, which has come together on this subject, which I would like to briefly quote. Agricultural Committee of the Parliament of the Czech Republic First, it asks the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment and their subordinate organisations to provide for exemptions to targeted surface applications of Stutox II in the affected territories. This application will be authorised on a limited basis on a specific agricultural parcel, after a personal visit by an employee of the Central Institute of Control and Testing on an agricultural holding. Two. It asks the Ministry of the Environment and its subordinate organisations to ensure the authorisation of an exemption for the Stutox II application to the Norwegian and in areas with the presence of hamsters and sysla, without undue delay after receiving the request for exemption. Three. It asks the Ministry of the Environment to prepare a national grant title in order to compensate for at least part of the losses incurred by farmers in affected areas. The fact that the agricultural committee has come together on this subject and has made this resolution across the political spectrum, I think it is a confirmation that it is not - in the words of the Prime Minister - any purpose. The situation is really serious and cannot be delayed. The faster we help, the more efficient we will be. Therefore, I would like to propose a new item on the agenda, a new item which is essentially identical to the item which was approved by the Chamber of Deputies at its meeting at the last meeting under the title Information of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment on dealing with the situation and damage caused by the field vole. I would like to propose a discussion of this new point, either on Tuesday next week after the fixed points, or on Thursday after the written interviews, or on Friday next week as the first point after the fixed points. I firmly believe that it will be the will of the Chamber of Deputies to include this point, because for a number of farmers, the situation is truly existential and critical. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u53	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have here recorded for the subsequent vote, including the three options that you mentioned, which we will be voting on gradually in the order that you put them forward. Mrs Pekarová Adamová will now make a proposal to amend the approved agenda for the meeting. This application relates to point 296 of the Road. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u54	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, thank you for saying that this has the first request for a prioritization of a point which we already have firmly placed on this programme, but is at such a stage or so far that it might not be able to get to it at all, the press number 296, which is the proposal of Members from my club, namely TOP 09, which concerns Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on roads, as amended. It is an issue that may seem so marginal to us, but practice shows that it is far from marginal. These are car wrecks from the streets of our towns and villages. The situation is really a very serious topic in the municipalities, because if you remember, for example this summer, it was during the holidays, so maybe you did not notice, but I will remind you: Here in Prague, in one city district, the mayor is very interesting behind the ODS and the one in Prague-Řoporyj had dealt with it in a very peculiar way, with the tow truck. I must say, however, that these things that are happening and where it was about the fact that the cars changed their original location overnight so that they could be towed under existing laws, you may have noticed a humorous version in those roads, that it was some levitation, that somewhere came Martians etc., so in this case we can really see that the existing regulation is completely inefficient, inoperable and that, for example, only in Prague because the existing law considers a car wreck to be a car that doesn't even have a license plate or an engine and is really badly damaged, where officials are really clueless, such as cars, which only hazes the streets of Prague, is around 1,400 pieces, which are 1,400 parking spaces that are taken by really non-mobile cars, but according to the current adjustment only 200 of them, or a complete fraction, only 200 of them can actually be towed. Our bill deals with this, it responds to this practice. It was prepared by people from practice, with officials who were very involved in this in practice and who gave us their suggestions and suggestions on how we could just change the situation and how the amendment to Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, could be changed here. The change is so simple. It is based on the fact that only one new paragraph is inserted and a few phrases are added that can help and that say that a road vehicle which does not have a valid technical competence certificate for more than three months issued by the emission measurement station and the technical inspection station can be used as an unfit vehicle. It's a pretty simple thing. When we put this forward, there was an interesting situation where the Minister then responded very quickly, but at the same time, Mr Ťok, who submitted his amendment, so I believe that you who are signed under his amendment, which is almost identical with ours, really differ in one number practically and only in a few details that you need to discuss it simultaneously. I'd like that. It would certainly be worth it, and we would show the mayors, the officials who are struggling very much with this problem in the municipalities, that they may not be inspired by the way the mayor has handled it, even though I admire it in a way that I admire it, but that they can use the laws that we make to make really work with us. I think it's for all of our sakes. And people will appreciate it. I was only talking about Prague, but this problem is part of every community in the Czech Republic, especially in cities with a slightly larger population. That's my demand. I want to put this as point number two today after the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u55	Yes, thank you, we have a record. And now, Madame, it is your turn again, according to the applications, to the House of Press 214, the Criminal Code. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u56	Thank you. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, this is an amendment to the law signed by 77 Members, which I think is very unique and is a huge consensus across the political spectrum. I thanked many times for this agreement, I am really grateful for it because it solves the problem of animal abuse. Criminal Code, that is, Law No. 40/2009 Coll., as amended, and other laws are changing here so as to remind me, again, what is the substance of the matter, that the rates that are awarded for animal cruelty should be increased, that they should be functional and that we should prosecute these terrible acts that some unfortunately commit more adequately. At the same time, this amendment aims to introduce a new offence, namely a new paragraph, § 302a, breeding animals under inappropriate conditions. This also affects animal breeding plants, which is once again a phenomenon that unfortunately occurs in the Czech Republic, but not only in the Czech Republic, but also in other countries, but also very often occurs and which leads to animal suffering. Since the amendment is presented by such a broad group of people and has already been delivered to us as Members in June last year, of course, a number of work has already been done on this, unlike the first point I asked for in the previous contribution. What I asked for earlier on the road, I may have forgotten to say that this is the first reading, this is the second reading. It is therefore a law that has already been in the committees. And because there have been a number of comments and amendments in those committees, we have worked a lot on this in the sense that we have tried to take all these comments very seriously and to process such an amendment that would be complex and that could really be satisfactory across the political spectrum. I think it is precisely because the work here has progressed this far, the consensus has been so great - and I thank you so much for this to all those who responded positively to my email call this week and signed up just under the comprehensive amendment - so I would like us to put this point in order to finally get on top of it and finish the second reading so that we can finally really read the amendment as requested under our Rules of Procedure and as the procedure in the Rules of Procedure requires. So if I may, in this case, this is the possibility of including this point as the first one today after the third reading. I think that we would make it clear to everyone that this issue is important to us and that we really want to discuss the criminal code as a priority. So would my request for you. And I will also mention because I have one more application there, and I would like to say that I am downloading here, because I have agreed with the petitioner who is the main promoter of the amendment, that the proposal it concerns - the amendment to the State holidays and important days - will be submitted by him himself and I would very much hate to compete here for who came forward with it earlier. And since I did not know until after I submitted the application to the agenda, I ask you, Mr President, to no longer reflect it, and I would just like to support the submission of that point - the State Holiday Act. If I'm not mistaken, I didn't even bring it with me, but it's press no. 504. I only support this because I think that especially this year, in which we commemorate the round anniversary of the Velvet Revolution, it is also appropriate for the holiday - but he will mention it here already, my colleague Mihola, to commemorate even more. Well, I'm out of time, so thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u57	Thank you, I understand. This means that we will then vote on your proposal to point No. 214, Criminal Code, to include today as the first after three readings. And you're downloading the application for point no. 504, public holidays. In that case it is Mr Tomáš Martínek's turn to amend the approved agenda, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. Yesterday we did not have time to discuss the annual reports of Czech Television in 2016. I think that is a pity just because the last speaker has been enrolled in the debate. Likewise, it is probably not dignified for the House to still be on the agenda for the 2016 report meeting. I would therefore like to include these annual reports, i.e. paragraphs 245, 246, today as the first point, and I would propose this as a counter-proposal for Mr Dolínek's proposal, a partial counter-proposal, with the fact that for 2016 today the first points and the remaining reports would be as proposed by Mr Dolínek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u59	Yeah, so I'm just gonna recap the proposal. House prints 113 and 114, annual reports for 2016, you propose to include as the first item today. Okay, copy that. First points today. It is next for Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a prioritization of the current point No. 134, Parliamentary Press 446, which is a proposal by Members of Ondřej Profant, Barbora Kořanová, Vojtěch Munzar, Radim Fiala, Martin Jiránek and others to issue a law amending certain laws in the field of company creation, either as the first point of today's negotiations, if my colleagues' proposals are agreed on the first point of the negotiations, after such points, or alternatively on Wednesday 23. 10. after already fixed points. You'll know the bill under the business name of setting up a company in one day. This bill would allow you to become a businessman or start a company s.r.o. simply from home, i.e. over the internet, online, within 24 hours with total costs of CZK 500. This proposal aims to eliminate bureaucracy, reduce financial and time-based transaction costs, as well as increase the attractiveness of business creation. And I think it's very important. In recent years, we have seen steps taken by the government and the state, which tighten and regulate the conditions for business. That it is not just a feeling, you can look at the study Doing Business, for example, namely the founding of the company, when in 2017 and 2018 the Czech Republic occupied up to 81th place from the monitored countries, in 2019 to 115th place. It clearly shows that it's moving. I believe that a healthy and strong economy must have a basis in the private activities of people who are independent and active. However, as I have said here, lately we have witnessed the creation of a rather hostile and adverse atmosphere for business, which requires absolute infallibility on the part of entrepreneurs on the part of state power. This relentless and untolerance atmosphere and excess regulation, gallows deadlines and disproportionate fines discourage people from doing business. And let's not be surprised. When people are constantly exposed to the fact that the only real policy of the state towards entrepreneurs is mistrust, when the state uses new electronic technologies only and exclusively for online control of the activities of entrepreneurs and as a repressive tool, let us not be surprised that people in this atmosphere will say that they do not really need it. And that undermines the future stability of the economy. [[11.30 hours]] Fear of bureaucracy in particular discourages young people from embarking on a difficult journey of business. According to the 2013 surveys, the employment ratio of young people preferred 66 per cent and 82 per cent in 2017. It is a very warning finger for our society and for our future economy. So I'd like us to take at least one step that would delay the desire to do business. And that is precisely the adoption of this law, and that is why I proposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u61	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, I've noted the proposal, just to be safe, I'm recapitulating: it would be the first point on today. If the points presented by Mr Stanjura and Mr Fiala, that is, I, were to be approved, that would be after these points. And it would be voted on Wednesday 23. 10. classification after fixed points as the first point. Okay, thank you, we have a record. And we can proceed to the next enrollment, this is Mr Jiří Mihola, who, in this case, will speak with a proposal to the House press of 396. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u62	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose a firm inclusion of a parliamentary proposal that goes across most of the Clubs of the Chamber of Deputies. It concerns the Higher Education Act. We are often talking about how we want to simplify things, how we want bureaucracy to go down, and it is this amendment to the Higher Law that is supposed to help. I don't want to talk too much about it right now, but it's actually an incentive from academic workers, I'll say, it's not my personal idea, it's an incentive from the academic environment. Here are a number of university teachers who have experience with the fact that when there are projects, grants, there are sometimes too many papers. And there are also different boundaries when what can and cannot be used. So in the direction of simplification, and thus more flexibility and more effective handling of the funds, this amendment is heading. It is therefore a House press, as has been said, 396 the proposal of Members of Jiří Mihola, Karel Rais, Petr Fiala, František Vácha, Lukáš Bartoň, Tereza Hyťhová and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education and on the amendment and addition of other laws, as amended. And I suggest you place this point on Tuesday 22. 10. after already fixed points, if they are. So that's it for this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, I have a record of Tuesday 22. 10. after already fixed points. According to the order you are also next and this is a speech to the House press 504, paragraph 158, public holidays. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u64	Thank you for the reword. Ladies and gentlemen, here I would like to ask again for the support of a parliamentary proposal that goes across almost all the clubs, except the KSČM. This is a proposal by Members of Jiří Mihola, Jaroslav Bžoch, Jana Černochová, Jan Lipavský, Radim Fiala, Jan Chvojka, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Vít Rakušan and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 245/2000 Coll., on state holidays, on other holidays and on important days and working quiet, as amended, House press 504. He is ready to be approved under Section 90 precisely because it goes across the House, and I tried to consult with all the clubs carefully. I also asked the President of the strongest club here, namely the YES movement, for support, and I was promised, respectively. I aligned it with the next week's agenda so that this item could be discussed next Thursday, i.e. 24. 10:00 p.m. I can promise that this point really, given its simplicity, and I believe that the general support will not take longer than five or ten minutes. I don't want to presume, of course, that someone can join in, but she actually applied to him, and I thank you for the helpfulness of my colleague Markéta Pekarová Adamová, and I am glad that she thought of it, too, and her club supports it. So, thank you for not making this difficult for us, but I think there might be a match on that next Thursday 24. 10:00 p.m. I beg you in advance on both proposals for support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u65	I beg you, Mr. Ambassador, it's Wednesday 23 in this written application. 10th, so the proposal is on Thursday 24. 10:00 p.m. First point. Thank you, I will correct it so that we can vote correctly in accordance with your proposal. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský is next. This is a speech to the House of Press 457 in this case. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u66	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. I would like to ask you politely for the fixed inclusion of paragraph 135, this is the House press 457. Specifically, it is a proposal by Members of Marian Jurečka, Pavla Golasowská, Vít Kaňkovský, Jan Bartošek, Marek Výborný and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy. Our proposal aims to strengthen the merit of working parents who raise children by proposing differentiation of insurance rates on pension insurance. You will recognize that, at a time when we talk about having a stagnant birth rate, about having problems with securing our pension system, it is more than important to take measures that could strengthen the birth rate in our country. Therefore, I consider this proposal to be very important and I would like to ask you to support its firm inclusion and specifically propose it as the first point after the already fixed points on Tuesday 22. 10.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u67	Yes, we have recorded this proposal of you. And you're logged in, Mr. Ambassador, one more time, and now it's your turn. It is to paragraph 132 of the House's press 439. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u68	Good morning again, dear colleagues. In this case, this is point 132, House press 439. Specifically, it is a proposal by Members of Marian Jurečka, Pavla Golasowská, Jan Bartošek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended. We are in a situation where our country desperately needs pension reform. Unfortunately, neither the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs nor the government as a whole have yet presented a vision of how to continue our pension system. We have an organized working group dealing with some visions in the pension system, but at the moment there are no concrete outputs from this committee. [[11.40 hours]] Therefore, KDU-ČSL submitted a package of at least partial changes to the current pension system. We believe that our citizens deserve these changes, that at least these partial measures need to be implemented, and therefore I would like to ask you for a firm inclusion of this amendment and, in particular, for Tuesday 22. 10. as the second point after the already fixed points. Thank you for your attention and for your support for my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We've got a record. Point 132 to be included as the second point after the already fixed points on Tuesday 22. 10. Let me introduce you to an apology. Mrs Jana Levová apologizes for today's meeting from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons. It is Mrs Miroslava Němcová's turn to amend the approved agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u70	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to you for a firm inclusion of points concerning reports, annual reports on the management and activities of Czech Television for the years 2016 and 2017. Yesterday we discussed these reports for the third time, and we did not reach the final vote. I know that similar proposals or similar proposals have already been made before me by Mr Dolínek or Mr Martínek. I will propose another classification, because yesterday, after this discussion, or rather, we did not negotiate with representatives of the political parties of the Civil Democratic Party, KDU, TOP 09, Mayors and Pirates, agreed that, in the event that this does not go properly to a proper meeting, we would call for a special meeting to discuss these reports. Nevertheless, I would like to give some further opportunity to the Chamber of Deputies so that we do not have to take this extraordinary step, but I stress that we are ready for it and we are already collecting signatures in case the proper inclusion does not pass. I therefore propose to include firm reports on the management and activities of Czech Television for 2016 and 2017 first for today, i.e. Friday 18. 10th, first point, both of them. Mr Martínek only proposed 2016, I propose 2017. If this option fails, I suggest we deal with these reports on Tuesday 21. 10. as a first point or after the points already included. If this option is not accepted, I offer a third option, i.e. Wednesday 22. 10. And I know that there is a first-reading discussion of the state budget, so I suggest that we discuss these reports after the state budget has been discussed at first reading as the first item after the state budget. I would also like to say that on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies we have probably, I did not count exactly, but it is more than 70 different reports that - I do not want to say that they are more important or less important than the discussion of Czech Television reports, but I will remind you of some. There is a report on petitions, a summary report on the Ombudsman's activities, a report on the activities of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, a report on the situation in the field of migration, an annual report on the Czech Radio for 2018, a report on the implementation of the state budget of the Czech Republic for the first half of 2018, an annual report on the State Fund for Cinematography, Transport Infrastructure, the environment, implementation of budget rules, budgetary responsibility, health insurance plans for health insurance companies, a report on extremism of the Czech Republic. Then there is a block of reports on the participation of the armed forces, the transit of the armed forces, the annual report of the telecommunication office. There is a report on the situation in the area of migration, the state of agriculture, the situation in the area of internal security. I certainly didn't name them all. I'm saying there's more than 70 of them. I think all these reports require us to deal with them, some are already in 2017, some are in the first half of 2018, others in the second half of 2018, and we simply cannot discuss these reports properly. Then they will be heard here, except for them, if God willing, those questions will come up again, why they have not been discussed long ago and earlier and what the Chamber of Deputies did. I, therefore, want to draw attention to the fact that we should, in some reasonable way, grasp and discuss these reports. I therefore propose three options to end the discussion of reports for 2016 and 2017 on the management and activities of Czech Television. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u71	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. 'Cause there's more of these proposals for the annual report, so I'm just gonna have to recap. In this case, these are annual reports on management and activities for 2016, 2017, House prints 113, 114, 143 and 251. And there are variations of classification today, Friday 18. 10. as a first point, or after already included on Tuesday 21. 10th as the first point, or Wednesday 22. 10. as the first item after the state budget at first reading. Thank you. We will then vote on these proposals. Now it's his turn... [[A Member of the Germans reporting.]] Yes, madam? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u72	Mr Vice-President, I would like to make that clear. I think the other option is Tuesday 22. 10th that I wrote that I would suggest it as the first point, or after already discussed, so that it would be quite clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u73	Yes, it's recorded here. After already classified. [[Member Němcová: After already included.]] Yeah, that goes for Tuesday, too. [[- Thank you.]] Thank you for the clarification. Mr. Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I also come up with the inclusion of reports on Czech television's economy. You just recapitulated what Mrs. Němcová said. I just want to make it clear that it is correct in the minutes and when we vote on it. Mrs Němcová said on Tuesday the twenty-first, but according to my phone - and I believe - Tuesday is twenty-two and Wednesday is twenty-three, so I would like to clarify that it was probably Tuesday the twenty-second and Wednesday the twenty-third -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u75	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, I'm in. You are right and, of course, we will vote correctly afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u76	Because one of my designs is also Tuesday the 22nd, not that I want to fix you, but I kind of got there. So since the reports for 2018 have not yet been discussed by the Election Committee, I will continue to talk only about the reports for 2016 and 2017, that is to say, these are House prints 113, 114 and then 134 and 251. My colleague Dolínek suggested them for Thursday after the written - and now I do not know, because I was not here, if he included them after the oral interventions, as we did yesterday - so I have here, but all this has already been said, I have proposed them as the first point of today's meeting, this has already been proposed by my colleague Němcová, those reports 2016, 2017, not as my colleague Martínek just 2016, so I would like to join there. [[11.50 hours]] Then I wanted to join that Tuesday 22. 10th, and again only news 2016, 2017. And a colleague named Dolínek said Thursday the twenty-fourth after written and then after oral intercessions, I assume until the twenty-first hour. And as far as I know, it wasn't proposed Thursday in a variable week, so I would like to propose the inclusion of prints 113, 114 and 143 and 251, i.e. reports for 2016 and 2017, on Thursday 7. 11. immediately after the discussion of written interpelations, that is, it will not wait for the 11th hour, but immediately after the discussion of written interpelations, and then the appointment after oral interpelations. That means if the oral question ends before 6:00 p.m., then the news will start. If we were to finish at 18 o'clock, I suggest we continue with the reports until that 21 o'clock, since they are not laws, we can also vote on them, just as they were yesterday. There's a co-worker named Foldyna, and I think there'll be some other colleagues who will come forward and perform until then. It's just a little gag. I was excused yesterday, and I chased back very intensively on the freeway to make it through the 18th hour, so I was sorry that we didn't have enough to negotiate and vote, so I'm coming up with this idea of putting it in place to do it again, either this Thursday or that Thursday in a variable week. Thank you for your patience with me and my performance and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It was a little more complicated than that. Ambassador, may I have your attention, please? I'm just gonna make sure there's a little different data on the written application. Does this apply only to the 2016 and 2016 annual reports - your proposals? You sign up for us to vote on inclusion as the first item today, further inclusion on Tuesday 22. 10th, Thursday 24th. 10. after oral inhalation and Thursday 7. 11. after written interpelations, or after oral interpelations? What's on your written application, Friday 18. 10th as the first point, is that true, too? Yes, that's today, first point. That's fine, that's fine. Thank you. We've got a record, we'll vote on it. Mr Marek Benda is now next. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u78	Good morning. Mr President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would also like to propose a single change in the programme, or a firm inclusion, namely paragraph 82, House Press 237, a proposal by Members of Marek Benda, Helena Válková, Marek Výborný, Jan Chvojka, Dominik Feri, Jan Farský and others to issue a law amending Act No. 150/2002 Coll., Administrative Rules of Procedure, as amended, on a fixed date on Tuesday next week, that is, the 22nd, as has been repeatedly mentioned, after the already fixed points. I will try, at least briefly, in the five minutes I have at my disposal to change the program to justify this proposal. The House is starting to get into a completely hopeless slip. In principle, the government coalition is pushing its extremely controversial points, so here in the first year and a half we are suffering, I don't know how many, ten, twelve negotiating days in a whole, with church restitutions, or with taxes on compensation paid, so that the Constitutional Court would lose it in five minutes and everyone would say, well, what can be done, we respect it, it was our condition that the Communists gave us to rule, so we had to fulfill it. But the twelve days we've spent here on this, no one's gonna give us back. And yet there are a lot of proposals and oppositions here, where I think it would be at least fair to start talking about them, even - I am now proposing to you a preposition of a point that is signed across the political spectrum, it is not a purely opposition proposal where only the opposition wants to draw attention to the problems that it sees, but it is a proposal that Members across the political spectrum believe that it would be necessary to address the situation. And there's no time for that. I think that the government coalition must decide that opposition windows will simply be at those meetings of the Chamber of Deputies. If this is not the case, if only government proposals are still being put forward, I fear that the House will continue as it has been so far, by not having much discussion. I don't mind, I think we have enough laws. I propose that we declare a time for legislative well-being and not adopt any more laws. I wouldn't mind at all. Therefore, the proposal that I am proposing to you does not propose to supplement the laws, but only to cut some of them as well as the obssolent rules, which have already been pointed out here by the chairman of our parliamentary club. This is an amendment to the Administrative Rules of Procedure, where we propose that for certain cases a simplified procedure be allowed before the Supreme Administrative Court. Generally speaking, administrative justice is becoming a problem in the fact that it is becoming overwhelmed. The Czech Republic has about 4 percent of the judges in administrative justice, neighbouring Germany with its functioning state has about 20 percent of the judges in administrative justice. We need to complement both persons, especially in regional courts, but we need to simplify the negotiations in a fundamental way before the Supreme Administrative Court and simplify the possibility of endless appeal. The question is whether it is possible, when it comes to meaningless cases that have no wider impact, to refuse without action. In 2005, such practice was enacted here that this could be done in matters of international protection. Back then, who remembers the debate, there were also great concerns and doubts as to whether there would be a restriction on the rights of applicants for international protection. In 12 years, today 15 years, nothing like this has shown up, none of these decisions have been reviewed and annulled by the Constitutional Court. So I don't see that there should be any major problem. Yes, there are public and government voices that point out that some complex cases might still have to be made mandatory before the Supreme Administrative Court, but this can undoubtedly be adjusted during committee meetings, or look at it, but I think that simplifying -- administrative justice would be right, and that is why I am asking you to include this point. [[I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, time's up.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u79	Thank you. Again, just for the record, I'm reminding you that it's a 22nd grade. 10. on fixed points. It is Mr Válek's turn to amend the approved agenda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Dear and dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I have to say this frankly, and I am seriously saying this, I am very sad personally. I hesitated if I should even make an amendment, I've been thinking about it all week, because on Wednesday, unfortunately, which I don't care about, and now suddenly I'm the last one, and there's so many of them that we're lost in it. I would totally understand if one of the clubs had taken a break to think about how he would vote on those amendments, otherwise I can't imagine how it would turn out. However, what concerns my proposal. It concerns point 228, i.e. printing 85, sickness insurance. What led me to do this? We have already received this press twice in the third reading and we have twice - and now I would not like to be somewhat blamed for anything, however the Czech knows it this way - about small breasts they did not get to discuss this point, which is sad. [[12.00 hours]] I just think that this point is very important. He's very important. And it's also important because we want to discuss the tax package. It is also important because we discussed the report on Czech Television. What connects these two documents? There's one thing that connects them. What brings them together is that we want to support families. We want to support families who have children. Why do we want to support them? For different reasons. And certainly the taxpayers of the tax package to make sure that there are as many taxpayers as possible. And, as we heard here repeatedly yesterday, those who discussed the news about Czech Television naturally support families because there are therefore more who pay the fees of Czech Television. It doesn't have to increase the fees. All we have to do is build apartments, raise families, increase households, and thus increase those who pay those fees. The more households, the more fees, the better functioning Czech TV. And one of those little steps, however, little steps led to Armstrong landing on the moon, we all know that, so one of these little steps is also this law, on which we have really agreed across the political spectrum. What's going on? The point is that we better and more fairly calculate the basis for all parents. It's not a long text. He's got a bunch of pages. [[He's pointing.]] And if I release those parties that are de facto not related to the actual text of the law at all, then I come to practically two paragraphs. And I'll allow myself to quote at this point. The state budget doesn't have to be afraid, because it will be affected by this change very little. And the increase is not significant, but we will help a number of families and negotiate justice. And I think it's about justice and justice to all of us sitting here. That's why I'm begging you, even though I'm registered in writing, I don't know if I'm wrong, last one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u81	Excuse me, one more time, if you'd like to clarify...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u82	I don't know if I'm the last one in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u83	You are the last in writing, but he is still a Member of Černohorský. And that's the last one yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u84	God bless you for that. I don't like being the last, even though I'm used to it for life. Although I am the last logged in, I would still ask you to consider really considering the support of this proposal. And in my written request, I wanted to put this point first today, but I don't know if the first point today makes sense, so I suggest, alternatively, if it doesn't work, to place this point first in a variable week on Wednesday, possibly on Friday. So I supply verbally - in a variable week on Wednesday or Friday. I think it's a law that should pass very quickly, smoothly. We've had it here, we've discussed it in detail. I'd like to say goodbye optimistically and positively. I see a lot of colleagues and friends here, I remember a song: Beautiful is the air, more beautiful is the sea. What's the most beautiful thing? Smiling faces. Therefore, in this glorious sunny week, I wish the sun in my soul.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u85	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. I'm just gonna ask you to clarify. Mr Válek, I ask you to clarify, because paragraph 228 is a trade law, but you were talking about something else, I believe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u86	I was talking about the press 85, and it's point 228 of the sickness insurance. It's press 85.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u87	That's point 224.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u88	aha, well, 224 in the transformed one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u89	So, item 224, print 85, I've got it marked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u90	And as I said in writing, today, which you probably don't know -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u91	I do, I do. I've got it marked. Yes. And the last person to sign up is Mr. Černohorský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u92	Thank you for the floor. I didn't know I'd be this late, so I checked in from the scene. I would therefore like to request the inclusion of paragraph 207, House Press 490, as the first item on Friday 25. 10. if Mrs Černochová's proposal were to be passed, as was item number two. This is a change of parental contribution. I hope so, so I've noticed that there are no more proposals that day. The next proposal I have is for us to point 49, the House press number 545 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u93	Wait, so slow down. The first was point 207 and the press how much? One more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u94	Point 207, House Press 490, first item -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u95	I do. I've got it marked. [[You do, yes.]] And now the next one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u96	And the next is paragraph 49, House Press 545, and paragraph 50, House Press 295, which are executions to move them first and second points of first reading. [[President: First and second points of first reading.]] That's right. I think you understand that these executions are really a problem for a lot of people. And then again, item 165, House press -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u97	So the first point and the second point of the first reading when?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u98	If this is included as the first points of the first reading, it means moved in that order, so according to the program we would discuss them on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u99	Okay, that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u100	And then about moving point 165, House press 531, which is the upper law, which - we will not lie to each other - is partly on OKD, so in the future, if any mine fails here, so that we do not create wrinkles for the Minister, then have it as the third point of the first reading. If they didn't pass the previous points, then have it as the first point of the first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u101	So we said point 165, print 531, as the third point of first reading, if they don't pass the previous points, then the first point. I understand well. [[Yes.]] That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u102	Now, as vice-chairman of the MP's club, I'm going to ask for a five-minute recess before the vote on the agenda so I can put the rush together somehow for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u103	So the pirát five minutes before the vote. [[Short consultation with the President.]] So now I have received two vetoes from the Chairman of the ANO Group of Deputies. Mr President, do I understand that this is the YES and the ČSSD movement, the two MPs? [[Yes. Ambassador Faltynek requests the floor.]] So please tell us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to veto, on behalf of our parliamentary club and the Social Democracy Club, the proposal to include all the new points on the agenda that has been made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u105	Now, since there is nothing to prevent us from taking the vote, I will put out a five-minute break at the request of the Pirates MP to consult on the vote. And we have 12.08, so I'll meet you here at 12.13.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u106	Our break's over. I mean... Yes, Mr Mihola. You have priority rights - instead of a colleague Bartošek. prosit, Mr. Ambassador, on behalf of the KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u107	Mr President, I would like to ask for five more minutes for a KDU-ČSL meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u108	Yes, okay, so I'm declaring a five-minute break. I'll meet you here at 12:18. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 12.14 to 12-18 hours.]] The five-minute pause has therefore ended at the request of the KDU-ČSL, so I will engage, I will call the Members to the hall, as we will vote. I've got an application for a check-out. I'll check you all out. Log in again with your voting cards. I hope you guys freshen up and go to the bathroom, 'cause it's probably gonna take longer. The chairman of the ODS MP has refreshed himself with water, so that's okay. [[Fun.]] So I will ask you to remain calm in the Chamber so that we can hear each other, so that all Members can hear how and what we will actually vote on. So the first thing we have here is a proposal... And I will also ask the Members who suggested it, if I happen to say it a little differently, because there are really dozens of votes, so don't hesitate to show yourself to clarify. So Mr Zbyněk Stanjura proposes to vote on the Houses of thousands 181 and the Houses of the Press 213 so - and here I will have a question, whether separately or together, first Thursday 21. 10:00 p.m. [[Messenger. - Separately.]] Separately. So first, we will vote on the Houses of the Press 181 and Mr Stanjura wishes to include it... [[Announcement to the organizational department.]] 189 - I'm reading it wrong here because I didn't write it - 189 on Thursday 24. 10:00 p.m. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 65, 162 Members voted in favour of 56, against 72. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, as an alternative, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS, proposes the same press number 189 on Friday 25. 10th, first of all, first of all. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 66, 164 Members voted in favour of 57, against 74. The motion was denied. And as a third option... [[Objection from the messenger. Stanjury.]] Okay. So press 189, we've already voted on that, and now this House press 213, and here again you have Thursday 24. 10:00 p.m., or Friday 25. 10th in the first and second points. So three votes. Am I getting this right? [[Messenger. - Two.]] Two. Okay. Parliamentary press 213 Mr Stanjura proposes first on Thursday 24. 10:00 p.m. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 67, 164 Members voted in favour of 57, against 73. The motion was denied. [[12.20 hours]] Another option is that, therefore, the House press 213 on Friday 25. 10th as the first point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 68, 164 Members voted in favour of 55, against 72. The motion was denied. So that solves Mr Stanjura. Isn't that right? [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] Yeah, suggestions, suggestions, sure. Furthermore, we have the President of the ODS, Petr Fiala, who is proposing the first item in the House's paper of 254 on income taxes today, it is paragraph 88. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 69, 164 Members voted in favour of 73, against 73. The motion was denied. Next. Mr. and President of STAN Vít Rakušan propose the inclusion of an amendment to the Act of Liability for Damage caused by Public Power, it is House Press 418, paragraph 127, on Tuesday 22. 10th as the first point. That's right. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 70, 165 Members voted in favour of 73, against 70. The motion was denied. Come in. Mr. Vít Rakušan again. And it is an amendment to the Act on elections to municipal councils, House press 465, point 139, the proposal is to include 22. Tuesday 10 as a second point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 71, 165 Members voted in favour of 73, against 70. The motion was denied. Now Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marek Výborný proposes to reschedule paragraph 161 - Constitution of the Czech Republic, it is the House... aha. [[Announcement to the organizational department.]] He is no longer the new point 161, he is the new point 158, but the House press remains, it is 526. You're proposing Tuesday 22. 10th as the first item in the program. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 72, 165 Members voted in favour of 75, against 73. The motion was denied. Next again Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marek Výborný. And it's a point, originally you wrote 74, today it's point 71. However, it is the House press 193. And you're proposing Tuesday 22nd. 10th as the second item of the program. It's about regulating advertising. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 73, 165 Members voted in favour of 69, against 71. The motion was denied. Another proposal again by Mr Marek Výborný. That's it - you wrote point 68, the labor code, today it's point 65, print 159, and you're proposing Tuesday 22. 10th as the third item of the programme. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 74, 165 Members voted in favour of 76, against 71. The motion was denied. We now have Mr Jakub Janda's proposal here, and it is a proposal to pre-classify paragraph 23, House press 247, on Tuesday 5. 11. which is a variable week, as the first item in the meeting. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 75, 165 Members voted in favour of 52, against 90. The motion was denied. Mrs Jana Černochová's proposal is also here. This is point 130, House press 425. And the design is first - there are two variants. So it's 18 o'clock. 10th as the first point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 76, 165 Members voted in favour of 52, against 86. The motion was denied. Another option is to include this, item 130, House press 425, for next Friday, which means 25. 10th, first point. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 77, 165 Members voted in favour of 36, against 91. The motion was denied. [[12.30 hours]] I received a request from the chairman of the ČSSD MP to say the exact names of those points, so it will go a little longer, but of course I will agree. So the next is - Mr. Jiří Ventruba suggested it, but it is a new point and it is a veto. It was the accident prevention point on the repaired D1, so we'll postpone this, for that is the veto of two MPs, the ANO and the ČSSD movement. And now here is Mr Petr Dolínek, and it is the pre-position of paragraphs 245, 246, 247, 248, 249, 250, which I luckily remember, so I do not have to look for them, this is Czech Television. So there's a suggestion that we put these points on Thursday 24. 10. after the fixed point 292, which is the Czech National Bank. Am I getting this right? [[Voices from the O.R.]] I can't hear you. Yes, there are three points of the Czech National Bank and for these include these reports by Czech Television. So we know what we're voting on. I'm opening the vote. Sorry, I'm closing the vote and declaring it confusing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u109	I think there were counterproposals. At the very least, Mr Martínek made a counter-proposal for this proposal, so that only the 2016 report would be there today, and if the 2017 and 2018 were to go through his, those are moving forward. And then I think that Mrs Němcová -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u110	Wait a minute. Please, Mr. Ambassador, yes, all right, but I must note that, because I wasn't in charge of the meeting at the time. So one more time. Yes, we will vote on counter-surveillance first. So please tell me what the counterproposals are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u111	The proposal was proposed by Mr Martínek, I think. It was designed in 2016, but you have to look at your notes in detail. [[Objection from the O.R. It wasn't a counterproposal!]] He was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u112	Please talk to each other on the microphone. I'd like us to know what we're talking about here. Wait a minute. Please express yourself, and then we'll give the next word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u113	Thank you for the floor. Mr Martínek certainly said that he was giving a counterproposal to what Mr Dolínek said here, and then Mrs -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u114	And what was the counterproposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u115	That 2016, reports will be discussed today. You must take a closer look at what Mr Martínek said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u116	One moment, please, Mr Cernohorsky, please specify when the counterproposal is. Can anyone say that? I have to make a note of that, and then we'll give the next word to say, "Let's make peace." When was he--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u117	The year 2016, the report by Czech Television, and today the first item was the proposal made by Mr Martínek. [[President: Today's first point?]] This is a counterproposal against what Mr Dolínek gave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u118	So today as the first item in the report, the merged debate as to those reports 2016, what we discussed here yesterday, as well as the first item today. I understand well, that's your counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u119	And then there was the MP -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u120	Please calm down in the courtroom, I can't hear you! Please. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u121	And I don't think Mrs Němcová put it as a counterproposal, but there were alternatives to Mr Martínek, which I don't know how it should -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u122	Yeah, well, let's keep it that way with the lady. So please, who's applying gradually? So Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marek Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u123	Mr Vice-President, I wanted to ask because it is obvious that there is a significant confusion here, please give five minutes or ten minutes in your favor, I feel sorry for you, and take the papers you have there, plus the plaintiffs and make a deal, then we can vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u124	Please, we don't have any confusion here, we've got it all figured out. [[Fun and noise in the part of the hall.]] I have Mr Dolínek in the order of Mr. Dolínek, and Mr. Adamec is here, and it is in the order, Mr. Krejza. I wasn't in charge of the meeting at the time, and everything's exactly in order here. [[Big fuss in the hall.]] We don't have any counterproposals here, that's why I asked. The counterproposal is not written here, in what I have here gradually. I'm definitely not going to call a break for myself. If you want to declare her KDU-ČSL, say so, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So please, Chairman of the CSSD Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u125	Thank you for the floor. Have a good afternoon. I wouldn't want to stand up for Vice-President Okamura, but this time she's right. There's really no confusion, and there's no confusion, and it's more of a mess of pirates, and I don't mean any harm. Your proposals were not about counterproposals, but about separate proposals. Please, let's not complicate the situation. I think we all want to discuss these reports in some way, ideally next Thursday, and let's not discuss an hour of what was proposed, counterproposal, etc. and let's vote, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u126	So he wants to make a statement - you still volunteered, Mr. ODS Chairman? Mrs Pekarová has withdrawn. Please, we're just still in the program, so please, priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u127	I've applied to the debate that's going on now. I think if the plaintiff doesn't say it's counterproposal to a specific proposal, it's just a different alternative proposal. However, to say exactly what we have to vote on, this proposal by Mr Dolínek means that this will not be discussed on Thursday if we vote on it, because it will certainly take us two hours to make three points of the CNB. Well, I don't know if it's a trick or whether Mr Dolínek realized it, but really, we don't have enough time for these reports. So if it goes through and leaves three fixed points that aren't quite trivial in front of it, it's not really going to happen. I'd like everyone to know, knowing this fact, not to be surprised next Thursday that it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u128	So also with priority rights the chairman of the club ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please note that they only speak preferential rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u129	Hello, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. We will, of course, support this proposal by my colleague Dolínek, stating that then it is only necessary to keep an eye on each other, my fellow Members, the negotiations after the 21st hour, so that someone can read it and that we can really be able to negotiate and vote next Thursday, at least the 2016 and 2017 reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u130	Well, I think it's cleared up now, so we're going to go exactly how I'm prepared here, and we're going to get to all the suggestions, even the proposals proposed by the pirates here. So I'm going to repeat once again what we're going to vote on. It is Mr Petr Dolínek's proposal. ODS Club Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u131	At this point, I'd like to ask for five minutes' break. We really need to consult before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u132	So I'm declaring a five-minute break at the request of the ODS MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u133	I'll rejoin you, I'll summon you to the O.R. We have been discussing quite complicatedly here how this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure concerning Mr Martínek's counter-proposal for the pirát, which has therefore been heard on the screen record, and it will be as follows: I, as President, will propose a procedure because the pirát insist on it, but first I will say that we would vote on Mr Martínek's counterproposal and then on Mr Dolínek's proposal. Anyway, I'll ask if anyone objects. If anyone objects, we will vote on it, if the objection is accepted, then we will continue with Mr Dolínek first, and Mr Martínek will not be able to get to Mr Martínek until he has proposed it. So in this way, so don't worry, if he objects to the President's motion - it depends on you how you decide. [[Someone]] I propose - we have here Mr Dolínek's proposal - the Czech Television reports - 2016, 2017, 2018, paragraphs 245, 246, 247, 248, 249, 250 - to be included after the three fixed points, which is the Czech National Bank, on Thursday 24. 10. At the same time, Mr Martínek's counter-proposal is in the tapestry to include the two reports in 2016, points 245, 246, today as the first point, and the other four were included as suggested by Mr Dolínek, after the Czech National Bank on Thursday 24. 10. So do you agree that we should first vote on Mr Martínek and then on Mr Dolínek? [[Exhibits of consent.]] Is there no objection to that? It's not. So we will vote on Mr Martínek's counterproposal. Do you all know what we're voting on? [[There's no objection.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 79, 165 Members voted in favour of 57, against 30. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mr Dolínek's proposal. I assume you know what we're voting on. [[Exhibits of consent.]] You know. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 80, 165 Members voted in favour of 146, against 2. The motion was accepted. Now I'll read the apologies. Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková apologizes for work reasons - he apologizes for today until 10.30 hours for work reasons. In addition, Mr. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip apologizes from 12.30 to the end of the day on account of a foreign business trip. Mrs Kateřina Valachová apologises from 12.30 to 14 hours for work reasons. Now here we have Mr Ivan Adamec's proposal, it is House press 467, paragraph 141. This is a law relating to road traffic. You propose that it be listed - two variants, next Tuesday after fixed points, so it will be the first option. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 81, 166 Members voted in favour of 39, against 84. The motion was denied. The second option you propose is 25. Ten after three readings. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 82, 167 Members registered, for 40, against 90. The motion was denied. Now I'm going to read another apology. Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes today from 13.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. The next proposal is Mr Karel Krejza, this is the House press 159, paragraph No. 65, it's a labor code. You're suggesting we put him on second point on Friday 25. 10. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 83, 167 Members voted in favour of 74, against 70. The motion was denied. The next item is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's proposal. It is Parliament's press 581, it is a law on medicines. It is a proposal to exclude this item from the agenda. Isn't that right, Mr. Ambassador? [[There's no objection.]] Who's okay with elimination? Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 84, 167 Members voted in favour of 37, against 69. The motion was denied. [[12.50 hours]] The next proposal is Mr Stanislav Blaha, and that will be the veto because it is the inclusion of a new point, Information of the Government on the budget of SŽDC for 2020. So it's the veto of two deputies. So we're not voting on it. Mr Martin Baxa is also here. Again it will be a veto, because it is a new point Information of the Government on the possibilities of compensation for increasing mandatorial spending of municipalities and regions. So we're going to postpone it, too. Mr Jan Zahradník's proposal is now here and it is in the line of inclusion of a new point, but it is certainly a point that is here because it is paragraph 267, House Press 355, Report on the Environment of the Czech Republic 2017. And you're suggesting we put this point on 24. 10:00 p.m. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 85, 167 Members voted in favour of 73, against 40. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mr Jan Bauer and proposes the transfer of the Parliamentary press 490, which is point 207, concerning state social support, to the 18th paragraph 61 today. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 86, 167 Members voted in favour of 75, against 48. The motion was denied. The next item is Mr Petr Gazdík, Parliamentary Press 292. This is a road law, House press 291. You're proposing to include him next Thursday at 11 o'clock as the first point after written interpelations. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 87, 167 Members voted in favour of 72, against 68. The motion was denied. Another proposal is Mr Jan Farský proposal. It's point 99 of printing 313 and it's a law on changing the seat of state authorities. And here's the new proposal to put him on 22. 10. It's not more specified. So I'm taking the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 88, 167 Members voted in favour of 55, against 82. The motion was denied. We have another proposal from Mr Jan Farský and it is paragraph 169. So, wait a minute. It's a criminal code, press 551. The proposal is to include him on Tuesday 22. 10. 2019. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 89, 167 Members voted in favour of 75, against 69. The motion was denied. We also have a proposal from Mr Martin Kupka. However, this is a new point - Information of the Minister of Education to address the shortage of places in the primary school in the vicinity of large cities. That's what a veto is for. Madame Taťána Malá signed up for me, but they won't be de facto right now, so I'm going to smash you away. The next proposal is Mr Petr Bendl, and it is again a proposal for a new point. I'm just gonna say it. So it's gonna be a veto. Info to the Minister of Environment and Agriculture on the treatment of damage done by the vole of the field. So that's a new point, so it was a veto. We'll postpone that. Furthermore, there is Mrs Pekarová Adamová's proposal, and it is a transfer of the point of road and it is the printing 296. You're proposing today as the second point after the third reading. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 90, 167 Members voted in favour of 57, against 77. The motion was denied. The next issue here is Mrs Pekarová's proposal to Adamová. It's the House press 214. It's a criminal code, and you're proposing the first point today after the third reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 91, 167 Members voted in favour of 72, against 51. The motion was denied. There is also Mr Tomáš Martínek's proposal, which we have already voted on. That's the Czech TV report, so I'm gonna put it off. There is also Mr Vojtěch Munzar's proposal, and it is paragraph 134, House Press 446. I'm not specified here, so let's see... Oh, well, point 134, that's the pirát' proposal today, so I don't think that's it. It's a 446 House press. That's it. This concerns the creation of companies. So, this proposal, paragraph 134, House Press 446, you propose first of all, on Friday, as the first point after - I cannot read it here - sorry... so today is the first point, because Mr Stanjura's proposal failed. So we're going to vote first thing today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 92, 167 Members voted in favour of 71, against 71. The motion was denied. [[13.00 hours]] And as another alternative proposal, Wednesday is 23. 10. on fixed points. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 93, 167 Members signed in for 72, versus 67. The motion was denied. We now have Mr Jiří Mihola's proposal, and it is the House press of 396 on universities and you propose to include it on Tuesday 22. 10. after already fixed points. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 94, 167 Members registered, for 71, against 64. The motion was denied. We now have another proposal from Mr Jiří Mihola, this is House Press 504, paragraph 158 on public holidays and important days. The proposal is to include Thursday 24. 10:00 p.m. as the first point. I read it well. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 95, 167 Members registered, for 135, against 10. The motion was accepted. I will just specify that this is no longer paragraph 158, but it is now paragraph 155, but the House press remains. Mr. Benešík is applying to the facts, but you've already finished, so good. Another is Mr Vít Kaňkovský, and it is paragraph 135, press 457 on insurance, which may be another point today, but the press 457 remains. You propose to include the first point after the already fixed points on 22. 10. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 96, 167 Members voted in favour of 72, against 68. The motion was denied. We have another point here, and it is again Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský and he proposes the transfer of paragraph 132, press 439, concerning pension insurance. And the proposal is that it be like the second point after the already fixed points of 22. 10. 2019. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 97, 167 Members signed in for 73, against 72. The motion was denied. We now have Mrs Miroslava Němcová's proposal. It is proposed that the annual reports on the management and activities of Czech Television for the years 2016 and 2017, the number of the House press 113, 114, 143, 251 - first of all include them on Friday 18. 10. as a first point or after already classified fixed points. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 98, 167 Members voted in favour of 56, against 46. The motion was denied. As another alternative proposal, these prints should be included on Tuesday 22. 10. as the first point, or after already fixed points. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 99, 167 Members registered, for 55, against 44. The motion was denied. And the third option is that these prints be classified on Wednesday 23. 10. as the first item after the state budget at first reading. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 100, 167 Members signed in, for 56, against 62. The motion was denied. We now have Mr František Vácha's proposal. Again, it concerns Czech Television reports from 2016 to 2018, points 245, 246, 247, 248, 249, 250. You're suggesting they be included on Friday 18. 10th as the first point first. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 101, 167 Members registered, for 54, against 38. The motion was denied. As another alternative, Tuesday 22 is here. 10. to be included. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 102, 167 Members registered, for 55, against 40. The motion was denied. As the next option, the penultimate, is to place these points on Thursday 24. 10th after oral questioning. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 103, 167 Members voted in favour of 53, versus 38. The motion was denied. The final proposal is Thursday 7. 11. after written interpelations first and then after oral. So first, we'll vote on Thursday 7. 11. after written interpelations. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 104, 167 Members signed in, for 53, against 40. The motion was denied. And the last alternative again is Thursday 7. 11. - after oral questioning. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 105, 167 Members signed in for 49, versus 37. The motion was denied. [[13.10 hours]] We are already with the last three Members' proposals. So now, Mr. Marek Benda. This is paragraph 82, print 237, asking for a firm classification. It concerns the Administrative Code of Procedure. And he put them on 22. 10. on fixed points. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 106, 167 Members registered, for 54, against 77. The motion was denied. We now have Mr Vlastimil Válek's proposal. This is printing 85, paragraph 224. Oh, so, Mr. Ambassador, you will specify. Please, you have the floor. Because that's the third reading, that is. And no second reading is discussed. I'll turn your mike on, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u134	One more mea culpa. It was coming back so repeatedly that I thought it was out of the question that it wouldn't be at third reading, and it isn't. That point has returned several times to second reading, it's returned second reading, it's point number 19. Otherwise, I insist on what I have suggested, and I beg your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u135	Okay, so it's point 19, print 85. And you propose that it be listed as the first point of your proposal as the first point today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 107, 167 Members registered, for 69, against 67. The motion was denied. Mr Válek's alternative proposal is to include this as the first point in a variable week - first on Wednesday. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 108, 167 Members voted in favour of 70, against 64. The motion was denied. And as another alternative, you propose that this be the first point in a variable week on Friday. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 109, 167 Members registered, for 69, against 65. The motion was denied. We now have the last Member's proposal, and it is Mr Černohorský's proposal. First, paragraph 207, print 490, which is state social support. You're suggesting it's the first point on Friday 25. 10. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 110, 167 Members registered, for 66, against 60. The motion was denied. You also propose paragraph 49, print 545, paragraph 50, print 295, these are the two points relating to executions, so that it is the first and second points in the first reading of the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 111, 167 Members voted in favour of 72, against 54. The motion was denied. The last is paragraph 65, House press 531, which is the upper law. That is, you are proposing this as the first item in the first readings at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 112, 167 Members voted in favour of 66, against 70. The motion was denied. We've exhausted all the votes and I'm handing over the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-18-ps2017-035-04-000-000.u136	Good afternoon. I thank Vice-President Okamur for having shown us all these votes. And now there's a point
