ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u1	147. Request for consent Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Miloslav Rozner At the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 12 February 2019, we are Resolution No. 491 have suspended this item and adjourned it until the next proper meeting. The mandate and immunity committee has discussed the request for consent and today you have been served on the bench by its resolution No. 96 of 6 March 2019. I ask the Chairman of the Stanislav Grospič Committee to report to us on a request from the Police of the Czech Republic for consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr Miloslav Rozner. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, at the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we began to discuss the request of the Regional Directorate of the Police of the Czech Republic, the services of the criminal police and investigations of the Czech Republic. City of Prague to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Miloslav Rozner. The hearing was subsequently suspended on 12 February by order of the House No. 491. Today, therefore, we will continue the adjourned negotiations, in which I would like to inform you that the request of the Police Authority was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies on 10 December last year. It contains the definition of the act which Mr Miloslav Rozner was to commit in December 2017 at a private conference of the SPD movement, his legal qualification presented. These facts are contained in the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which has been distributed to you on the bench. The application thus meets the requirements of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In addition to the facts contained in the motion for a resolution from the House, I state that a resolution was issued by the police on the postponement of the case at the beginning of October 2018 and on 7 November of the same year, this conclusion was confirmed by the State Prosecutor for Prague 4. The same prosecutor was then ordered by the police authorities on 29 November to initiate the criminal prosecution of Mr Rozner, referring to the supervision of the Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Prague. The consultation of the police authority's request was initiated at its 20th meeting held on 18 December last year and the rapporteur was designated by Mr Marek Výborný, and then the meeting was subsequently suspended by Resolution No. 86. At the 21st meeting of the committee held on 5 February this year, a personal statement was heard by the District Attorney's Attorney General for Prague 4 by Dr. Petr Jeziork, police investigator of Chief Commissioner Jaroslav Rendla and Mr. Miloslav Rozner. Mr Miloslav Rozner was then excluded from discussing the request of the police authority by resolution No. 85. On the basis of the personal observations of the prosecutors, the law enforcement authorities and the absence of the supervisory prosecutor, excused, the committee's meeting was suspended by Resolution No. 89 and, at the same time, I was also authorized to request a record of supervision of the procedure of the District Attorney for Prague 4 in the criminal case of Mr Miloslav Rozner. This record is not part of the criminal file kept by the Regional Directorate of Police in Prague. [[Uh-huh]] That's why it was. Upon receipt of a copy of the surveillance record, the members of the Committee were given the opportunity to become acquainted at the premises of the secretariat of the Committee. The discussion of the police authority's request was then concluded by the Committee at the 22nd meeting on 6 March this year, after hearing the observations of the State Attorney General in Prague Mgr Tána Dočekalová, who supervised the matter and after hearing Mr Marek Výborný's report. The mandate and immunity committee has a legal obligation to determine whether the conditions for criminal prosecution of a Member are laid down in immune matters, but does not assess the Member's guilt or innocence, nor whether the views or actions attributed to Members justify prosecution. Such assessment shall be the responsibility of law enforcement authorities. However, in the context of Mr Miloslav Rozner's somewhat ill-advised statement, the members of the mandate and immunity committee felt the need to label Mr Rozner's statement as inappropriate in the accompanying resolution. Immunity protects Parliament as a whole. It ensures that its normal operation is not disrupted by anything and no one after the proper functioning of Parliament, and therefore it is essential that the exercise of the mandate of its members is not prevented in its entirety, and ensuring such protection is one of the main reasons for the existence of this parliamentary immunity. On the basis of the investigation carried out and the subsequent assessment of the case, the Committee adopted Resolution No. 96 that you were given on the bench. With the opinion of the mandate and immunity committee, Mr Marek, Mr Výborný, will introduce you to Mr Miloslav Rozner for extradition and prosecution. A certain time lag that arose was given the necessary synergies with the law enforcement authorities, especially the prosecutors, where we waited for the waiver of confidentiality and the opportunity to testify before the members of the mandate and immunity committee. So much on my part, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u3	There. I now ask the rapporteur of Mr Marek the Výborný's mandate and immunity committee to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u4	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government, colleagues, let me introduce you to the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee. Given that the whole process, because we have addressed this matter to the three meetings of the mandate and immunity committee at the 20th, 21st and 22nd meetings, but I will not repeat what the President said here. I will allow myself to fulfil my reporting duty by introducing you to the resolution adopted by the mandate and immune committee as Resolution No. 97 at its 22nd meeting on 6 March 2019. This resolution reads: The mandate and immunity committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening words of Mr Stanislav Grospič's committee chair, after hearing the observations of the State Attorney General in Prague Mgr Tán Dočekalová, after the report by Mr Marek Výborný and after the debate first of all does not recommend Chamber of Deputies to give their consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr Miloslav Rozner, s. On 29 March 1977, secondly, he instructs the President of the mandate and immunity committee to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, in the report, let me mention one more thing, namely that at its 22nd meeting on 6 March, the mandate and immune committee adopted an accompanying resolution. A total of ten out of 16 members of the mandate and immunity committee who are present voted in favour of this resolution. This resolution reads as follows: The mandate and immune committee notes that the statement about the non-existent pseudoconcentration made by Mr Miloslav Rozner was inappropriate. So much for the mandate and immune committee. This is a accompanying resolution, which was therefore a consensus and which I proposed as rapporteur after thirteen votes - to be clear as voted by the committee - recommended to the House not to issue Mr Miloslav Rozner for prosecution. Three Members voted against this resolution and one abstained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u5	Thank you. I have an apology here. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes today from 16:30 to 18:00 for work reasons. I am now launching a general debate in which Mr Miloslav Rozner first applied for a written application. Consequently, with priority rights, Mr Bartoš and then Mr Rozvoral. Well, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, my statement on the issue of the camp in Lety was not intended to question the suffering of people during the Nazi occupation. The Nazi occupation, whose unfortunate anniversary coincides with tomorrow, March 14th, was a period of suffering, and any question of this fact I find unacceptable. [[15.00 hours]] The expression that has caused me to be mediated and investigated by law enforcement authorities concerned the way in which this suffering has been abused at present. It has, in my opinion, been used to spend a huge and disproportionate amount on a project which, in my view, does not deserve the amount of that amount. He does not deserve it compared to other places where murder and suffering took place during the Nazi occupation. We forget many of these places. There are many places where the victims of the Holocaust have not been properly and publicly reminded. This situation and this discrepancy in the case of spending such a huge amount of money at the Lety camp are literally beating the eye and, of course, causing legitimate concern to the public. It may seem justified that some today are chanting the victims of the Nazi will. This chanting really divides them into those that we can forget, we need not remind them, and those whose suffering deserves the abundant financial costs of public funds. It is unjust to one another and to another, and it harms their memory. I would like to express my appreciation to my colleagues in the mandate and immune committee that they have accepted my arguments and explanations on this matter. Last but not least, this corresponds to the outcome of the investigation of the Police of the Czech Republic. I can conclude by stressing and repeating that neither I nor any of my colleagues in the SPD have ever questioned and questioned the suffering of the Nazi occupation. Our movement is a patriotic party, and the suffering of people of this time is sacred to us. However, we also have the right to defend fair access to these victims and to express our opposition to the excessive cost of the state budget in all cases, even if the camp project in Lety is used as an excuse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u7	Next, with priority rights, the President of the Pirates' Club, Ivan Bartoš, and Mr Radek Rozvoral will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u8	Good afternoon. I expected an apology from Mr Rozner here through the President. We're actually dealing with his statement here, and then in his reading speech, he says no one ever questioned it. Well, I don't know, what if I say it's pseudo, whether it's a question or not? I'm not much in favour of punishing verbal expressions. Perhaps there are people sitting here, too, if someone looked at their Facebook speeches, for example, towards fellow Members, we would have more such cases here. We even dealt with much sharper things with the police, where we talked about spreading the alarm message, and some friends come to the Czech Republic to murder etc., anyway. The police said that these are not serious things, that this is part of a political struggle, that they will not be dealt with. One thing bothers me about this whole case, and that is why I would like to appeal to Mr Rozner through Mr President. The pirát and I organized a seminar on the basis of this case, which was medialized, specifically involving the victims of the Romani Holocaust, here in the House. There were representatives of the survivors, there were historians who showed where the concentration camps were in the Czech Republic, remembering the history of non-Romani victims of the Holocaust, and even through the media went the call for Mr. Rozner to attend this seminar. I must say with pleasure that we have recorded perhaps two members of the SPD movement, but I have not seen Mr Rozner there. At least I'm trying to live like this - because I'm not always doing the right thing and I'm gonna do something stupid or I'm gonna touch someone, so I'm gonna fix it with my actions and not repeat the mistake. I expected at least an elementary step by Mr. Rozner to attend the seminar with which Olga Richterová worked. It was a valuable seminar, there were historical contexts, the history of Rom people in the Czech Republic. And I think that not only for Mr Rozner, but also for some other Members who might come to see it, that would be an asset, but that did not happen. I'm actually sorry about the development of this whole case going on in the House, because the opportunity to fix it a little bit, to learn so that there wouldn't be such a downside, and we didn't have to deal with it here like the whole House, that would be the move that I would probably take. Unfortunately, it didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u9	I have two factual points here. So first, Mr Ondřej Benešík will prepare Mr Jaroslav Holík. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u10	Mr Vice-President, I confess that Mr Rozner's remarks simply cannot be followed. But I confess that I recorded this statement, and I noticed it in the context of some media news, and so I said, somehow it fits into the concept of the movement that he represents. But when I thought about what he said, he said there was no pseudoconcentration. So what are we talking about here? He just said there was no pseudoconcentration. He didn't say there was a concentration camp or that there wasn't a concentration camp, he said there wasn't a pseudo-concentration camp. So when we think about it, he basically didn't say anything wrong in that phrase. Pretty much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u11	That was the last in fact, I do not have another, so with priority rights the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala and Radek Rozvoral will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u12	Hello, honourable Members. Allow me, as club president, also to speak on the case of Miloslav Rozner. I consider it appropriate for my colleague Rozner to mention some things which, in my view, go far beyond the case of extradition or non-release of a colleague of the SPD, because that is what Mr Rozner wanted to say to you on this particular matter. First of all, I want to remind you that this case is part of the effort of some part of our political competition to put a Nazi party that reports anti-Semitism and denies the Holocaust on the SPD. It should be stressed that this label is being applied to us by political competition through corrupt media and, in the case of colleague Rozner, probably using the activism of the prosecutor's office. I would like to stress that the police investigation in the event of the suspicion of the commission of the criminal offence of Mr Rozner has been closed down negatively. The police investigated the case, no one avoided anything, and the police said that my colleague Rozner did nothing about it. So the reason we're sitting here dealing with this is because of the decision of the SAO that ordered the charge, despite the result that the police said. Anyone who reads the SPD program knows well that our patriotic program is historically based on values that exclude suspicion of denial of anti-Semitism and the Holocaust. Specifically, the SPD states that the entire program is based on traditions of ancient, Christian and Jewish people. I believe that the storm surrounding Mr. Rozner's statement arose for two reasons. The first one is already mentioned attempt to damage the SPD with a sticker, and the second one is the fear of people who have taken advantage of people's suffering, to organize more than a half-billion-dollar business, a job that is outrageous and damages the memory of people who have suffered in the Lety camp. I believe that the state's progress in spending this financial amount was irregular, and I believe that this is confirmed by the modest approach taken by the then Minister of Finance, Ivan Pilný. Lately, many politicians and media have taken the right to decide what is possible and cannot be criticized and said, referring to possible anti-Semiticism or Holocaust denial, or other so-called human rights issues. Obviously, in my opinion, the time of self-censorship or directly censorship of words is approaching in cases such as homosexual, pretty woman or others, such as ethnic differences, etc. It's cheap and fake. I'll tell you why it's fake. [[15.10 hours]] I'm an MP who lives in Moravia in Prostějov. Many Jewish families lived in Prostějov before World War II. And during the war, an old Jewish cemetery was devastated here. A cemetery with significant cultural personalities. Without playing the media theater, I turned to the former social democratic leadership of the city and asked to be helpful in negotiating to increase the piety of this place. Unfortunately, the social democratic leadership of the city has shown extraordinary arrogance and non-culturality. If I wanted to behave like our political opponents, I could use the same stickers that you're trying to pass on to us. In Prostějov, however, the pieto is not connected with more than a half-billion-dollar deal, so the correction of past mistakes and injustices is probably irrelevant. Let's stop taking advantage of the victims' memory of the political theater. Let us treat this monument with respect and give reasonable means to honor it. Appropriate means will be devoted so that we do not discriminate negatively or positively against any group of victims. Dear colleagues, honourable Members, in conclusion, I would like to call all of you to vote against the extradition of our colleague Miloslav Rozner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u13	Now, with Mrs Jana Černochová's factual remark. And so far, a single point of fact, so Mr. Rozner will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think we agree that we should raise the culture in this Chamber of Deputies a little bit. So let me respond to the words of the President of the SPD Fiala, and I did not have to respond to it by the Social Democrats. I cannot relate to what has been said here because I have a completely different experience with the Social Democrats. Because in Prague 2, together with the Jewish Community and the Jewish Museum, we searched for people who left for transport in World War II, so it was Michaela Marksová Tominová, who was one of the personalities who came up with this project. So let me stand up for my colleagues from social democracy, at least those I met in Prague 2 as part of my political culture. Because no one can accuse them of being disrespectful, and they do not want the historical legacy of what has been going on in this community to be evaluated here in any way, so that we can learn about it for generations to come.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u15	Another de facto Mr Marek Výborný. Your two minutes, please. That's the last of the facts so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u16	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I will allow you to respond to the words of President Fiala. I believe that having someone written something in the program, and specifically your political party, that you are applying to the ancient heritage and to the Jewish-Christian roots and culture, does not mean that someone has it written in the program that the party's representatives behave accordingly. Let them be your Members, Members, Chairman. All you have to do is look and you can trace it, in many cases it's deeply hypocritical. Because your actions and your statements, on the contrary, are in sharp conflict with this culture and with this tradition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u17	I will also ask for the speech of Mr Radek Rozvoral and Mrs Jana Černochová will be prepared again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Government, allow me to comment on the request of the Police of the Czech Republic for the extradition of Miloslav Rozner to prosecute and our work on the mandate and immune committee dealing with this issue. To begin with, the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, Tomio Okamura SPD, rejects any efforts by some political competitors and their friendly media to maneuver our movement into the position of genocide deniers. None of us has ever denied such a disgusting thing, and we are very well aware of how all those who went through the gypsy camp in Lety suffered and suffered and eventually were taken to Auschwitz where they were executed. We condemn this monstrosity, and we will always condemn it. It is also necessary to state a few sentences from the historical expert reports that have been requested for this case. Among other things, it says that although the Gypsy Camp in Lety was created as a result of the implementation of Nazi racial policy, it cannot be regarded as a place of systematic genocide, unlike Auschwitz. It is further noted that according to the Circular of the Chief of Security Police of 3. 5. In 1940, the designation of a concentration camp was admissible only for the camps that were subject to the inspector's concentration camps and thus differed from the camps that were not under the direct authority of the SS, which fell into the category of internment camp, which was the case of the camp in Lety. On the whole case, I am very concerned about the position of the supervisory council, which has become interested in the matter, among other things, on the initiative of the Attorney General, with the order to initiate the criminal prosecution of Mr Rozner, despite the fact that the entire case was postponed by the Police Authority on the basis of historical expert reports from which I quoted, which was agreed by the District Attorney for Prague 4. Colleague Rozner, according to the police authority, merely took advantage of his fundamental right to freedom of human expression, while freedom of political expression is the centre of democracy, and its restriction or restriction can only occur with the most significant departure from the law guaranteed rights. The police authorities considered that there had been no such serious violation of the right to freedom of expression and further stated that the statement could not fulfil the factual nature of the offence of denial, questioning, approving and justifying genocide under Section 405 of the Criminal Code, i.e. an intentional offence. For it is only facts for which historical correctness has been demonstrated that can be denied. Concealed denial could involve statements whose untruth the perpetrator knows or is understood with their possible falseness, regardless of the fact that this question is quite obvious to others. It is also important to add that, according to the Constitutional Court, only gross denial of something so vile as genocide should be criminal and, if not, freedom of speech. Furthermore, there is a finding by the Supreme Court that the same administrative procedure should be maintained in the same cases. And we all know very well that as far as the camp in Lety is concerned, several criminal charges have been filed on several persons, but they have always been postponed. Based on what I have described here, we are convinced that this case is politically based on the extradition of Mr Rozner to prosecute and aims to damage the entire SPD movement. Colleague Rozner was only right to express, in line with the opinion of the SPD movement, the great dissatisfaction that the state, on the proposal of the then popular minister of culture Daniel Herman, threw nearly CZK 45 billion out of the window for the purchase of a prosperous pig-farming company and subsequent remediation only to build a memorial, which, by the way, is already on site. In our view, this was an inefficient spending of all taxpayers' funds. We would rather use these funds, for example, to educate children. The amount spent is grossly disproportionate to caring for other places where during the Second World War the Czech patriots were completely murdered and tortured. Finally, let me convey the opinion of the SPD MP on the request of the Police of the Czech Republic on the extradition of Mr Miloslav Rozner. Based on the facts described above and the fact that this was a verbal speech by a Member at a non-public hearing, which, among other things, was pointed out by the vast majority of colleagues across the political spectrum at the meeting of the mandate and immunity committee, I recommended the SPD MEP to vote against the extradition of Mr Miloslav Rozner for criminal prosecution, and I also voted on the mandate and immunity committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u19	Now I have two applications for de facto. As the first chairman of the SPD, Radim Fiala, the MP Vít Rakušan will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'll start with the calmer option. I must, of course, respond to the rapporteur from KDU-ČSL, Mr Excellent, who has now made it clear that this is not about Mr Rozner, who said, on the one hand, that we have it in the programme - which is not true, we have it in the statutes. If anyone breaks those statutes, we have to say goodbye to that person. That's one. Secondly, Mr Výborný through Mr President said that it is not really about what Mr Rozner said, because it is definitely someone else who has said it and we are saying it somewhere, and there are certainly a lot of cases, confirming that this is not really about Rozner, but it is about the entire SPD. It's a sticker. It's a sticker, and I think it's more than clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u21	Now with the de facto Mr. Vít Rakušan. So far the final de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would just like to comment on one thing that is being said here in the debate. It compares the concentration camp exterminating with that camp that was in Lety. And no one ever claimed there was an extermination camp in Lety. That it was simply a collection camp where citizens of Romani origin were concentrated. My grandfather spent four worst years between 1939 and 1943 as an 18-year-old student who was Opletal to a concentration camp at the time of the funeral. He spent them at Sachsenhausen camp, which was also not an extermination camp, but it was clearly a concentration camp. It was no pseudoconcentric, and surely my grandfather, who carried the trauma for the rest of his life, would be very offended if someone called him the four worst years of his life in a pseudoconcentric. He spent them in a concentration camp and - to his happiness - not in an extermination camp. But just as from the point of view of history, the camp that was in Lety was simply a concentration camp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u23	We will now return to the general debate. Mrs Jana Černochová and Mr Kopřiva will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. At the outset, I would like to say that I will not vote in favour of the extradition of my colleague Rozner for criminal prosecution, just as I did not vote in the past for the extradition of a number of other colleagues and colleagues in the moments when I had serious doubts. It leads me to this for a number of reasons. The first is the fact that simplicity and stupid statement are not a criminal offence. Rozner's statement in relation to the concentration camp in Lety was an extraordinary nonsense. I stress that I do not identify with him in any way. Mr Rozner, however, delivered it in a closed party meeting. I don't know what his motivation for these words was. Whether to strengthen his position and sympathy with fellow party members or to please the chairman of his movement, who expressed himself about Lety in a similar way. It is certain that this statement has not been addressed to the general public, and in order to accept the fact that Holocaust denial is a fact, I would have to be sure that the primary motivation for this statement was indeed to deny that genocide is being made or that colleague Rozner is trying to spread the so-called Auschwitz lie in a systematic way, that he is similarly expressing himself on the Holocaust in general as such and so on. Of course, I did not get this impression, so I tend to take the view that it was a statement on a level - forgive me for the word - mere babbling. The second thing I would like to mention here is the degree of social hazard, the degree of social harm to this statement. I believe that, in view of the generally known and undeniable facts and the relevance of Mr Rozner as a non-historic and unscientific colleague, the social effects of his words are negligible. His statement can be very easily refuted, which also happened, and perhaps the seminar that the pirát organized helped. I am clearly convinced that his statement did not change the view of the concentration camp in Lety even one single person. Yes, of course, I do not deny that the statement was offensive to those who were interned in Lety and who suffered here and to their loved ones. Of course, I consider it shameful in this regard. As in many other cases, however, this matter is more a matter of morality than a matter of law. And on this level, we are only entitled to be judged by voters who decide whether politicians as a colleague of Rozner should represent their interests or not. The third thing I'm going to mention here is the very issue of the rhetorical - the operative part is in quotation marks - crimes that are, moreover, very specific with legislators. We all know that. It is paradoxical that if my colleague Rozner made his claim here, at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, in front of the camera lenses, he would be inconvenient. However, in a situation in which he presented him to his fellow party in closed negotiations, without putting any fundamental emphasis on the keywords for which he is to be prosecuted - I suppose I am working with what I have in the media - he is facing punishment. Yes, it is a paradox of immunity, or indemnity, which leads me to conclude to lean towards common sense. And that we hear these silly statements here, unfortunately, a lot! And I cannot mention yesterday's stupid statement by my colleague Václav Klaus about Jewish transports. We all know that. We can each reach into our own clubs and tell each other how many stupid statements we've heard in the last two weeks. But here we are protected by immunity, unlike the conduct of the political club, the political committee on which this debate took place and this statement by my colleague Rozner. The last, no less serious point I will mention is the ongoing and rather escalating political motivation to punish legislators and to try to criminalise policies that must be defended. And I think that every one of you who has been in the Chamber of Deputies for a while now, maybe at the beginning you thought different about it and you thought: I will always vote for the issue, I am not a court, let others decide. But as time passes, as you learn more and more about some cases and media, including through our colleagues, possibly the mandate and immune committee, sometimes you continue to be as amazed as I am. It is indeed a matter for all of us who take on the political responsibility that we are making the more serious, the less serious political decisions that we have to assume that our actions can have an impact on the fact that there will be a settlement at the end of the political mandate and that we do not have an indefinite employment contract here in this Chamber of Deputies. And if political or other opponents fail to eliminate us in a fair political competition, they will start catching even the slightest missteps or attacking our decisions. We all know that, too. I would therefore like to mention here, in this context, one of the more recent cases that is still not closed and is developing in this very spirit. I have the information I have from the media, and I asked our colleague if I could talk about it here. I have his approval. And then, remember, it was me who blamed him for not being here, for not defending himself. Unfortunately, he'd be sick. But perhaps today, in connection with the extradition of another colleague, it is good to remember this matter. And most importantly, remember where this whole thing went because it's really bizarre. [[15.30 hours]] Mr Růžička and his alleged error, Mr Růžička, a colleague through the Vice-President, were therefore accused of alleged wrongdoing in the management of foreign municipal property. This case, as I was saying, was just here in January. To remind you: My colleague Růžička, with his vote in the city council, should have caused the city to lose about half a million crowns on the sale of a house that did not need and which he could not sell in the long term, reducing its price to 1 million. At that time the police operated with the price of CZK 1.5 million, which they identified on the basis of their own methodology. By electing a colleague, today a Member, Růžička to the Chamber of Deputies, there was an obstacle to immunity for law enforcement authorities, which, of course, does not protect his other colleagues from the council. And thanks to God, our chamber has decided not to release my colleague Růžička. Several things happened during the time that had passed. As I said, according to the information I have from the media, this occurred: First, the judge mistakenly stopped the prosecution of Mr Růžička completely, and not for the duration of his mandate, as usual, so that, at the initiative of the state prosecutor, this wrong decision would be reversed again. Subsequently, the prosecutor and the court disliked the town's legal representative and therefore rejected her completely unconstitutionally - is Dr. Válková here somewhere to nod to me that I am right? - to communicate and invite her to a court hearing. Colleagues, colleagues, where are we? This February, the expert opinion of the court expert, which came to an entirely different conclusion than that for which the police decided to prosecute Mr Růžička and his colleagues, came out, namely that the house sold the city at a higher price than it had at the time of market value and that the police had followed a completely flawed methodology. This conclusion can then only have two explanations: either a sklendrian and a complete failure of investigators, or, in my opinion, more likely - a purpose procedure that should have corrected the failure of one of the candidates to purchase it. However, what is even more serious and completely unacceptable is the fact that even though we have not issued my colleague Růžička for criminal prosecution - and please listen well, I have seen this subpoena with my own eyes - my colleague Růžička is now summoned by the court to further stand as defendant! As if the lawmakers' protective instrument did not exist, or was it useless and worthless? Ladies and gentlemen, as long as the law enforcement authorities continue to act in such a credible, amateur and frivolous manner, as long as requests for extradition of lawmakers to prosecute so clearly read political orders or purposes, my willingness to raise my hand for extradition in cases of totally illegible or negligible very low. And I hope you've come to the same conclusion here. I refuse to participate in the dehonestation, which can do much more harm to the person concerned than what he should have done to his deed. I believe that there have already been enough cases in our Chamber of Deputies in cases where a politician was finally freed from the same interest of cameras. Don't you think? There is no way that I consider us Members to be the chosen ones who should be removed from criminal liability. No way. I merely believe that extradition to prosecution should be the ultimate option in those really serious cases that are not automatic and that come when there is a clear intention, motive, rationality of negotiations and so on. Let us not be hasty about anyone's rashness or stupidity, for next time it may concern any of us. Finally, I repeat that the camp in Lety u Písek was certainly neither a non-existent nor a pseudo-concentration camp. I believe that if my colleague Rozner had to repeat his words, he would have changed his mind, and that his public image, which was created because of these words, is a sufficient punishment, and I think we have all read a lot about this colleague in the media. At the same time, through the Vice-President, Mr Rozner, I would like to ask him to speak once more and to publicly apologise for his words, which would certainly contribute to the definitive conclusion of this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u25	Now here I have applications for three factual points. But I will read the apologies, just to say that Mr Petr Dolínek will be prepared for the de facto. For work reasons, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes from part of the afternoon meeting from 16 a.m. to the end of the meeting day. Furthermore, today's meeting from 16 a.m. to the end of the day apologizes for working reasons from Mr Richter. [[Ambassador Dolínek is already at the speaker's desk.]] And just a moment, Mr. Václav Klaus will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u26	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to the words of the honourable Member, although I very much appreciate her work primarily as mayor of the town area and also as a Member, I think that the work behind her is visible. One thing frightens me is that we cannot say, in relation to the Romani or Jewish question during World War II, that statements about this matter are stupid, that it is babbling. This is simply unacceptable, absolutely unacceptable, and there is no way that we can make it any easier by apologizing. Anyone who thinks this must either stand up for these words, whether they are responsible for it or cannot just say it in the words of the Member or communicate it with stupid statements. It's unacceptable. At least this House should admit that whoever does it, it's a mistake. So let's just not take it easy. The other thing about what my colleague said. Let us be glad that Mr Růžička is a Member and it is so much to see the case. But take it, if another Mr. Růžička has the same problems and is not a Member, he will be in it. And who's gonna stand up for him? Nobody. I hope that the Member, and I will be happy to help her do so, will contact the Minister of Justice to investigate the case very much, to find out all the errors, when there are such fatal errors in plenary, as you know from the letters of various voters, it is unfortunately happening more times and perhaps it is good to talk about it with the Ministry, it is probably good that this does not happen in the Czech Republic. The Member is really lucky to be a Member, because with another poor person, no one would notice that the authorities are messing with him like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u27	Another factual point, Mr Václav Klaus. Mr Pavel Růžička will be ready. That's all the applications for the actual. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u28	I have to respond briefly to this kind of attack from my own MP. A new age. I felt that Mr Rozner here was more defended for his very strange statement than I am. Here's what I'd like to say. I have merely compared the zero sovereignty of the Czech Parliament and the Jewish Committee. It may have been tense, and now various political friends and media villains are trying to put on some anti-Semitic note, but I would venture to say that my entire professional life as a teacher and as a politician is exactly the opposite. Anyone can look it up, my position is completely pro-Israeli. I would just like to turn against this, to be mentioned here at all in the context of this discussion, and this is being discussed in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u29	Another factual point, Mr Pavel Růžička. I have another one here, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only briefly. I thank Mrs Černochová, through Mr President, for a precise summary. I would say that I am not charged alone, there are still my nine colleagues, nine representatives. A fellow deputy, also the defendant, wanted to travel to Australia to see his daughter, didn't get a visa, so he couldn't leave. He's over 60 years old. My grandson. He can't see him. And that's all because of the sloppy state's attorney and the judge. [[15.40 hours]] In short: After two years, the judge gave a review expert opinion, now we have it from 8 February 2019, just because the House did not issue me, as well as feedback on the content of the expert opinion, I will only read briefly, as assessed by the police opinion: For the reasons set out above, it should be noted that the methodology for setting the price under Decree No. 441/2013, as amended by Decree No 441/2013. 199/2014, which was used in the revised expert opinion, cannot be considered as applicable for the determination of the price within the meaning of Section 137 of the Criminal Code. And that's not what the D.A. knows. But in 2017, this was already written by the judicial oversight department, which gave it to the District Attorney's office and said that this error was there. Nobody did anything about it. The conclusion of the expert's opinion is that we saved 50 grand because the price of the final expert's opinion is 950 thousand and we paid one million for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u31	Now I'm going to read one apology. Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting from 15.45 to the end of the day for working reasons. The fact has been abolished, so we are going into a general debate. I just got a Mr. Grospič. Very well, yet factual and then Mr Kopřiva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u32	Just for a very short time. Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, when Mr Růžička's case was heard here, I would like to inform you about the information received by the mandate and immune committee. After we had actually learned that he had been called again and that he was in danger of being fined for failing to appear in court, we joined - the mandate and immune committee - with the court in question, and the second time came an apology stating that this was an administrative error in the court in question. So what Mrs Černochová said here is really a serious matter. And I think it's about thinking deeply about how justice works in some cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u33	Now, then, Mr Kopřiva in the general debate, and then Mr Veselý will be prepared in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer the debate back to that point, i.e. a request for consent to prosecute Mr. Rozner. I think this point has a very important function, a function of the hot stove, where the culprit has already punished himself. I think my colleague, Rozner, will never question the existence of a concentration camp again. So I think the punishment has actually been done by him a long time ago. However, it is not up to us to judge that statement in order to determine whether or not it meets the reality of the matter. So I, by principle, lean towards extradition, although I agree with many things that my colleague Černochová, for example, said. I would also like to thank my colleague Richterová for organising an educational seminar, where unfortunately, Mr Rozner has not arrived. However, which also has to do with the fact that I would much rather vote in favour of the issue, so I would rather be in favour of some sort of'returning someone back to elementary school' resolution than "shooting him to the court to get caught up in it'. Because I agree that this is really more of an ignorance than a deliberate attack. It doesn't affect me alone, but I do understand that the survivors may be able to do so. I would like to express my thanks to my colleague, Mr President, Mr Rozner, for having kind of put ashes on his head here at the beginning in his speech. I'm sure that's commendable. However, we, here in plenary, are not the audience to which the apology should sound. I think it's the survivors and the victims of the concentration camp. I have no information that such an apology will take place. If such an apology has taken place, I beg you to document it, otherwise through Mr President you, Mr Rozner, I call on you to direct that apology to the survivors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u35	Now another speech in the general debate - Mr Ondřej Veselý. And Mrs Pekarová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to express my opinion on the entire case. I'll split it in two parts. One is the question of the prosecution, virtually. extradition for prosecution, and the second is the facts of the Lety camp. I, like my previous speaker, share the view that the Chamber of Deputies should not judge the crime or the injustice of any action. That's not what we're here for. I do not agree with my colleague here, who I otherwise very much appreciate, Mrs Černochová, we simply do not have to judge criminality or injustice. There are completely different organs for that. As in all cases, with the exception that has not yet occurred, I will vote in the Chamber of Deputies for the extradition of the Member and it is nothing personal in relation to the Member. I have always done so with all Members, even with my colleague Růžička, whom I otherwise like. We love each other. I hope we love each other. [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] I'll do it in this case, too. We like each other differently than it just came out. But I always do. It is simply not for the Chamber of Deputies to judge criminality or injustice and enter a living cause. And that's the second model I've announced in advance, clearly in advance. Please, let us not enter politically into a living cause. Let's not influence the prosecution. So vice versa. When I issue, I will always vote with the only exception that I have already named in favour. If we want to discuss a live case involving law enforcement authorities, I will mostly vote against it, because I do not consider it appropriate for us to politically influence any investigation in the matter. And now he's got the facts. Colleagues, I'm an MP from Písek County, the district where the camp or the former camp in Lety is located. Lately, and it probably forced me to get out more here, there are these mass e-mails that show up or somebody writes, I don't know who it is, I didn't even find it out, because it's disgusting to me, that it was basically some kind of beach beach, and those people were more comfortable there than almost at home. Of course, no such thing is true. Dear colleagues, no matter what the name of the camp was, people died there. There were people dying in horrible sanitary conditions. All the children who were born there died. The only child born there didn't survive. People who didn't die directly at Camp Lety were deported to Auschwitz. Please let us be aware of that. So let's be very careful. And please, that's a crucial thing, let's not mix our views on buying out the farmhouse in Lety, which is one thing I have my own opinion on, too, with the suffering that was there. I would also like to call on my colleague Rozner to do what František Kopřiva said. I'm a little older, so maybe I'll make it sound a little more dignified. Try, colleague, to apologize to these people directly. It's not enough here. Those people right there. And I think that, regardless of my vote, the case will end with dignity to your satisfaction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u37	Another in the general debate, Mrs Pekarová, will be prepared by Mrs Richterová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the opinion of our club, Club TOP 09, on this vote about whether or not a statement is a denial of the Holocaust. In my opinion, we're not in charge here, we're in charge of the courts. It's been heard here by both of my previous speakers, so I'd repeat them. But we do not really think that we, as Members, can decide this, when I, of course, have the view that this statement is completely inadmissible and, in my opinion, the denial of the Holocaust can certainly be expressed, and I also see it that way. Therefore, we Members should only allow the entire case to end up in court, or to reach this stage at all, if, of course, they have or will do so to all the law enforcement authorities. So if we decide on this thing, let's just keep this thing in mind, this point of view. We will therefore vote in favour of the extradition of the Member for criminal prosecution. I will also remind you that our Vice-President, Senator Tomáš Czernin, was one of those who - of course, were more of those people and institutions - who filed criminal charges, too, so it is not surprising that we are still holding the same point of view and position. [[15.50 hours]] For I believe that if we are indifferent to such expressions of verbality, statements that are full of hatred or approve of it, in some way they take our history indifferently or indulgently towards certain events, so not only are we treading on the memory of all the victims who have died suffering, but we are also playing with fire for the future. Tolerance to spread hatred always comes back. Immunity is meant to serve to ensure that the statements made here in the House, of course, have some protection so that we can actually say what we have to say here, what we have in mind, what our opinions are, and we do not feel bound by certain things. However, if such statements are made outside the Chamber of Deputies, the rules apply as to any other citizen. We simply need to be able to stand up for these statements or apologize for them if we have decided that we have made a mistake in this case, but we have not heard an apology here. The apology really didn't come up. There was more of a defense of that attitude. That is why I think it is appropriate that the responsibility that always connects with this behavior, whether it is just verbal speeches or other actions, must, of course, be borne, so it is appropriate. Public words, of course, have a much more serious impact on the Member. Let's not do this here, let's not paint anything about it. Just the MP, he gets a lot more attention, a lot more hearing. That is why it is people like us in our positions that should carefully select, weigh, and reflect these words before they utter them. Wherever it is. That's just the way it is, and higher standards just have to apply to us. I think we can agree on that. And if there was at least an apology, as my colleague Černochová has already asked, even if we didn't agree on that position, we would definitely agree on this, so I think that would be more than appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u39	Now I'll read the apology. Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes between 16 and 18 o'clock for work reasons. So I will now ask Mrs Richterová to speak and prepare Mrs Valachová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u40	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said here. I'd like to add three brief things. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Family, which has patronized the seminar on the Holocaust not only in Czech Roma. And I would like to remind you that actually the record of the historical lecture, the record of the main facts is now available to all, to the public and to us, to the Members and Members of the House of Deputies right on the website under actions taken by the family committees. The second thing I would like to point out is that the words we speak as Members determine some degree of what is acceptable. So it is not just the content of Mr Rozner's statement, but it is also the awareness that we all have a great responsibility for the words we speak. It is not worth recalling that it is still not easy to be a member of certain minorities in our country, to have a different skin color. All your child needs to do is become friends at school with someone who really eats them. It's not always a walk in our country through the pink garden. And that is what we need to be aware of in all these contexts. And the last thing I would like to mention is that we, as Members of Parliament, are not supposed to be superhumans. Our actions are to be judged by the competent authorities. Of course, if the extradition request was clearly bullying, let's just say, that's what we're supposed to judge from, not on a flat-rate basis. But in this case, it doesn't seem that way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u41	I will now request a speech from Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Mr Petr Pávek will prepare himself. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the extradition or non-issue of a Member, which the police, prosecutors suspect is that he may have committed Holocaust denial. The immunity that we decide whether to apply or not is in this case used to protect us Members and Members so that we can exercise our mandate freely without fear that any other power will interfere. That's the principle of immunity. Also, if we make a promise at the beginning of our term of office, we promise to keep the Constitution. Keeping the Constitution. Now, please connect it. Maintain the Constitution and apply immunity so that the police do not investigate whether the Member has committed or committed Holocaust denial. I think it's a contradiction. And in our debate, we should respect the fact that we do not judge whether or not the Member has committed a crime. We appreciate whether there is a reason for applying immunity. Again, we, as Members, are to maintain the Constitution. And immunity is meant to serve us to do so and be free to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u43	The Prime Minister apologizes from this moment to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. And now, Mr Petr Pávek, Mr Lubomír Zaorálek, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u44	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will divide my performance into about four areas. Let me express my regret in the first one and my participation in the suffering of all those who have left their lives in Lety, who have suffered there over the years, even though they were lucky to survive. And allow me to express my condolences to all the families and survivors of these victims. I consider my colleague Rozner's statement to be tacky and very unhappy. Yet it is against what remains of the parliamentary culture, which has a tradition of several centuries. And parliamentary culture includes, among other things, the incompetence of statements. Just as I condemn Mr Rozner's statement, it is his position, his opinion, and I cannot convince myself to violate the several hundred-year parliamentary culture and vote in favour of his extradition for statements. That's the last thing we have left of the immunity idol. Finally, I would like to join those who called on my colleague Rozner to end this unfortunate and embarrassing case by publicly apologizing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u45	Now with Mr Jiří Běhounek, the de facto Member. Did you sign up for de facto? No. Then I'll erase you. So I will ask Mr Lubomír Zaorálek to speak, and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will be the last to prepare. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u46	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I joined the debate because I see such a quite remarkable link between Mr Klaus' statement and Mr Rozner's statement. And this connection seems pretty important to me. If I understood correctly what Mr Klaus meant, he actually compared the powerlessness of this House, upon which European laws are being passed, he compared it to the helplessness of our Jewish fellow citizens, the Jewish community that gathered here in Prague at the Trade Fair Palace when they were being taken to Terezín and then later to Auschwitz. And I was very interested in the fact that in the image of Mr Klaus, apparently our Jewish fellow citizens were victims of some foreign power that fell on them and could not be helped. I'd like to tell you what's been bothering me my whole life as a pretty crucial thing, and I'm not sure Mr. Klaus feels the same way. I bear very badly that at the time we, not me, but our ancestors, the citizens who lived here in this country, were allowed to do so and that we let our fellow citizens go to those camps, because we were a state that was supposed to guarantee the rights and protect our citizens, and we couldn't do it, and we actually failed. And we're kidding ourselves that we couldn't do anything about it. But I warn you that today there are a number of works by Snyder Snyder and others that show how in Europe the ability to protect their citizens was different, for example, in Denmark and elsewhere, and why the Němec could not afford what they had taken in the east. This means that we, as a state, were not strong enough to stand up for our citizens, it simply made it possible first from Ostrava to Nisko and then from other parts to take comfortably our Jewish citizens, because we could not face it. That means, for me, it's not like it was a foreign power that hit here, and nothing could be done. For me, it is a lifelong problem that we have not been able to stand up for our Jewish citizens. And that's the responsibility we have. We even have it twice as much if we are Members. In fact, we guarantee respect for the rights, constitutional rights in this country, and if that is not the case, we have surrendered and failed. That means the helplessness that I don't think we're so helpless towards Europe, so I don't think there was such helplessness here or what was going on here at the time. And we should ask ourselves why we didn't do more. Of course, I am not at all able to judge precisely the case concerning Mr Rozner, but I point out that what we are discussing here has not been said here in the House, but probably somewhere, the police suspect that one of us, the MP, has committed Holocaust denial, which is actually something related to the protection of human rights. If one of us in this congregation does something like this, and yet it is our duty to defend our citizens, all of us without distinction, and if he wants to investigate, I do not understand that we would say that the police have no right to do so. This is the part we're doing here. And if anyone wants to find out if any of us have violated this role, then we shouldn't stop them from finding out. And I'm just saying this without knowing that I don't know what it was, but it's our role, and I would even say the crucial one that we have against all the citizens in this country. And if we don't want to live up to it, if anyone denies the principles we should defend, then whether it's true or not. That's the way it is. That's why I think what Mr. Klaus said is as serious and as serious a problem as what Mr. Rozner said. And we should be aware of what we are doing here, what we are responsible for - also for not repeating what happened back then. And we can do something about it today! So let's not pretend that it doesn't concern us and that what we say doesn't concern us! What we're saying is about what's going on in this country and whether we'll be able to defend the rights of our citizens tomorrow if something happens. We don't know for sure if we can stand it, so let's be careful what we do and what we say!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u47	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good evening. We will continue the debate. Mr Benešík is now, with a factual remark, prepared by Mr Klaus. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u48	Mr Vice-President, I have a bit of a problem with what some here suggest or say openly. They say, if Mr. Rozner apologizes, then maybe we'll vote in a way that we wouldn't release him. Either I'm just convinced that a crime has been committed, and then I vote that I'm just going to give it up, or I'm not, and I'm not. This House can't trade this for an apology. As if Mr. Babiš came in here and said "sorry like, the stork nest" we wouldn't give him up? I don't think that's what this is about. We have to hold some kind of logical staff culture here. Either I'm convinced he committed a crime worth giving him up for or not. And then when it comes to the satisfaction of the Jewish community. We are overreacting to the one who expresses greater regret over the loss of life, the great suffering, the great suffering especially of our Jewish fellow citizens, and I think that is correct, but it also needs action. And if you want, you can, a lot of you, prove it very soon and at least by not stealing the property from the Jewish community for the third time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u49	Thank you for your time and please note in fact, Mr Klaus, then Mr Kohoutek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u50	I must respond to Mr Zaorálek by your means, Mr President. First of all, Holocaust denial is piggyback and it's also a felony. I totally agree with you on that. Secondly, you yourself used several examples here in your speech, when you compared what the Čech were doing then etc., or you used a similar analogy rather similar to that of comparing something. So that's exactly -- maybe your analogy wasn't happy either, but I don't know why you're linking me to this case that we're discussing right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u51	Thank you and please Mr Kohoutek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u52	Hello, Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to comment on the request for the extradition of my colleague, Rozner, from a different perspective. I am convinced that we are Members on Monday morning, Monday evening, Tuesday, Wednesday, Saturday, regardless of whether we are here in a meeting room or somewhere in a restaurant or somewhere in a cottage at home and talking to our colleagues. If the fundamental constitutional right is that a Member should not be prosecuted for his or her remarks, then let us discuss whether the Member can not be prosecuted for his or her statements, whether he says them in this hall or whether he says them in the foyer, or whether he says them in Prague on a swimmer, or if we cancel completely, and then everyone realizes and is responsible for his or her statements. I also disagree with what my colleague Rozner said, but I can see in the parallel where we recently discussed whether we would release a colleague Zdeněk Ondráček, who provided an Internet interview. Because, in my opinion, we are not just Members in this Chamber, but we are Members everywhere. So either we cancel the immunity completely or we don't punish the MP for expressing himself. If the Member expresses himself inappropriately, which, of course, has happened in this case, then let the voters consider it subsequently, but we should not issue comments to prosecute the Member. That is why I will vote against extradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u53	I, too, thank you, and we have exhausted the factual remarks, so we will move back to the applications for the debate. I have Mrs Gajdůšková here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u54	Thank you. Mr President, the honourable House, the problem is one. We're talking about a statement that's in that category of crime because it's just not in line with the law. I just want to remind you briefly that extremism, nationalism, racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism was the cause of the death of 60 million deaths during World War II. And we can't forget it. I think the debate here must sound a little different. He talked about it a little bit Luboš Zaorálek, about the responsibility of us as the Chamber of Deputies. [[16.10 hours]] He talked about it a little bit Luboš Zaorálek, about the responsibility of us as the Chamber of Deputies. I have been asking myself one question from the moment I heard about it: whether the statement is worse on its own or worse that the mandate and immune committee of the Chamber of Deputies covered that statement as if because it did not recommend extradition. And if we do not give Mr Rozner a statement and cover such a course, if it is no worse for the public than the statement itself. We are responsible for what we do. The public is governed by what we can, what we cannot, what we accept, what we do not accept, and that is our responsibility. I have always voted in favour of extradition, whether it was the members of Parliament's upper chamber or here, because I think that we should all be equal before the law. And I say again, in this case, I think it is really worth considering what is worse, whether the statement itself or whether we will tolerate such a statement as the Chamber of Deputies. Please consider it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u55	Thank you. Your performance was like a point of fact. Mr. President Stanjuru, please prepare President Grospič. And I ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u56	Thank you for the floor. I would ask Mrs GajdůGajdůšková not to push reality through you. I'm not a member of the mandate and immunity committee, and I'm glad. However, the members didn't cover anything. We have heard the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee here. I think it's a complete, conscious misinterpretation that members of the mandate and immune committee would cover something with their vote. First of all. I don't even know how my club representatives voted, and I didn't even ask them. I didn't think it was important. The Committee's position as a whole has always been important. First of all. Two. We don't live at that time when not publishing meant stopping and developing. The only thing we decide whether the police will prosecute the Member immediately or after his mandate is over, whatever it may be. And then it's gonna be up to her to prove her suspicions and defend them like a prosecutor or an independent court. So even today's vote, no matter what happens, we don't decide guilt or innocence. We don't cover anybody or expose anybody with that vote. I'd like a colleague and colleagues not to misconceive a microphone like that. We're voting on something completely different. I'm not going to comment on the very nature of it, it's a different debate, I don't need to comment on the microphone. But I will repeat, no one has covered anyone up by the way he voted on the mandate and immune committee, nor did he reveal, and no one will cover or expose anyone when we decide. And it doesn't matter how we decide. Each such interpretation is wrong and confusing. And we, as members of the Chamber of Deputies, who are equipped with immunity should certainly not do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u57	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Grospič. Mr Výborný will be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u58	Thank you, Mr President, I would like to thank my previous speaker by means of you, and I would also like to respond to Mrs Gajdůškovášková's speech. I understand that the assessment of this statement by Mr Rozner is very difficult and perhaps for many who have not had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the criminal record or with the surveillance report and to hear investigators and both prosecutors, so far away because it is judged very emotionally. In this context, I think that the mandate and immune committee did not cover anything either, quite rationally after assessing the situation of most of its members decided, the resolution was before you, but it also dealt with the issue quite seriously and stated its resolution No. 98 that Mr Rozner's statement was inappropriate. And I guess that's crucial at this point. However, the mandate and immune committee cannot replace law enforcement bodies and should not even attribute the right to consider certain historical contexts in the context of this interpretation. So I think that the question is quite clearly raised by the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee. It depends on how everyone will feel about their decision, respect the recommendations of the mandate and immune committee or follow their own opinion on this matter. In the future, I think we have made the appeal to our colleagues' expression several times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u59	Thank you and please Mr Výborný, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'd like to respond to some of the things that were going on here. It has been said repeatedly here from the mouth of various Members that we should decide whether or not we consider whether or not a criminal offence has been committed. I think that's exactly the thing that's not true. Immunity and our decision-making and voting are not about whether or not a crime has been committed, it simply has to be decided by law enforcement authorities and by the court. Not us here, Members. But we're supposed to make decisions according to the Constitution. Repeatedly, someone said that MEPs and constitutional officials were covered by operative immunity. Well, I'll just point out that in Article 27 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, This is clearly stated in the Constitution: the speeches made in the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate or in their institutions cannot be prosecuted by a Member or a Senator. So there is no general immunity that, as Members, we can say anything anywhere. It's really not like that. And the debate that took place on the mandate and immunity committee really revolves around whether we should interpret immunity very closely as Members, that is, whether we should say yes, here is an extradition request, a criminal offence, or virtually. This fact did not occur on the House's soil, so let the court decide now and not after the end of Mr Rozner's mandate; or whether we will understand and perceive the immunity widely means that it is also the protection of the institution, an institution like us, the Chamber of Deputies, and institutions like the Senate. I've repeatedly long-termed myself here, even in the previous cases, to the first theory that we're to interpret the immunity closely. I am convinced of that, too, in this case. That is why I voted so on the mandate and immune committee. But I am just as well aware of the other voices that say no, it is the protection of the performance of the Member's mandate, and it is the protection of the institution as the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u61	Thank you, too. Once again, I would call on the House to remain calm. It seems that we have exhausted all the factual remarks and applications for the debate. So, if no one else is in the debate, I am ending the general debate. A detailed debate will follow. Before I ask if there is an interest in the final word by the applicant or rapporteur. It's not like that. In that case, I am opening up a detailed debate in which I do not have applications. The Member shall report for a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u62	Not in detail, but I am obliged to read the resolution in a detailed debate. So allow me, as the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee said in his opening speech, to conclude the discussion of the request of the Regional Police Directorate of the capital city of Prague for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Miloslav Rozner, adopted Resolution No. 96. By voting, we will decide on the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute the Member. Allow me to make a motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies referred to in Article 27 (2) shall: 4 of Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, and according to the provisions of Section 12 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, gives its consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr Miloslav Rozner, born on 29 March 1977, who was to commit a crime of denial, questioning, approving and justifying genocide pursuant to § 405 of Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended." The entire motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies is then contained in resolution No. 96, which was distributed to you on the bench. I therefore believe that the full text bounded by quotation marks does not need to be read in this way. Just to make it clear - the mandate and immune committee, because there are repeated questions about why you have something else on your desks, there must be two resolutions. One sounds the way it was requested, which means we're giving our consent. We will now vote on that. But at the same time, you were interpreted by Resolution No. 97, which was not recommended by the mandate and immune committee to comply with this consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-020-147.u63	Thank you, too. I will ask the House once again for peace. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. As this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. In that case, we will vote on the proposals tabled, respectively. on the single motion for a resolution tabled. It was loaded a while ago, it's all in front of you, so I don't think there's a need to repeat it. This is a statement of consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr Miloslav Rozner. I'm hearing an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please sign up with your cards. I will sing for any Members in the foyer. When the number of entries is settled, I will begin the vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 274, 155 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 42, versus 88. The motion was not accepted. I have a factual remark from Mrs Adámková, but I believe that is a mistake. So if no one else has anything else, I'm done discussing this point and moving on. [[16.20 hours]] We have point 53, which is
