ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u1	230. Oral inhalation Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. I now give the floor to Mr Jan Bartošek, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš. But before I give him my word, I'll read the apologies. And there's a lot of them, so I'm sorry. I apologise to Mr František Petrtýl from today's meeting from 14.30 to the end of the day. Mr Radek Holomčík also apologizes from 14.30 to 18.00 for reasons of work, Mr Martin Kolovratník from 14.30 to the end of the hearing for reasons of work, Mr Jiří Strýček from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, Mr Jan Lipavskýý from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, Minister Antonín Staněk from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of employment, Mr Andrea Brzobohatá from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for health reasons, Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of employment and Mr Radek Rozvoral from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of employment. So the pardons are read, so I will ask Mr Bartošek to interpel to the excused absent Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, the annual report of the Security Information Service for 2017 has recently been published. The report contains a number of important information and warnings. According to the information available, the report should be met by the Government in January and deal with possible measures in response to this report. I consider such a reaction by the government to such a serious document a step in a very good direction. I would therefore like to ask whether such a government meeting is really planned and when and whether the government's exits from this meeting will be publicly available and you will provide them to Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic. I consider the issue of the security of the Czech Republic to be a subject that should be dealt with by consensus across the political spectrum, and I am therefore prepared to support possible government conclusions on which we would agree across the political parties. At the same time, I ask you, Mr President, whether you will support the establishment of an investigative commission on the influence of foreign powers in the House of Deputies, because this is one of the steps that responds to the annual Security Information Service report. I also want to ask you whether you will discuss this subject with the government and within the coalition you will agree to support the establishment of this commission of inquiry. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u3	Thank you. The Prime Minister is excused, so he will reply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Another is Mr Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, dear colleagues, colleagues. Allow me, Prime Minister, to give you an interview concerning the area of social services financing. I'd like to ask you. When the State Budget Act was discussed at the end of last year, MEPs and KDU-ČSL MEPs proposed strengthening the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with an emphasis on the financing of social services for providers in the Czech Republic. Since it is clear that these funds are not sufficient for the full functioning of social service providers over the next 12 months, I wanted to ask how and when this issue will be dealt with. Because I am in contact with these people quite often and they point out that the uncertainty and the fact that they will eventually receive the money sometime at the end of 2019 is a problem for them in terms of some meaningful planning of their activities as well as some perspective and motivation of their employees, for example in terms of raising salaries and the like. So I would like some concrete information on how you, as Prime Minister, are dealing with this issue and when it is possible for social service providers to give a more specific answer. At the same time, I would also point out that many of these providers financed part of their activities from European funds, from European sources. They were so-called individual programs that mostly ran for three years. Last year, most of these individual programmes have ended, and there is also a deficit that needs to be addressed. So please ask for specific answers with specific data, when social service providers will know how much, how much and when their activities will be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u5	Thank you. It will also be answered in writing. I also have an apology here for Mr Jiří Bláha from 14.30 to 18.00 for working reasons, Mr Jan Bartošek from 15.00 to the end of the day for working reasons and Mrs Marcela Melková from 14.30 to 17.00 for personal reasons. Mrs Věra Kovářová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, yesterday the press leaked information that the Municipal Authority in Černošice has issued an illegitimate decision on your conflict of interest. However, this decision was not published. All we know is that the Bureau has decided and you've appealed against it. I believe that the content and outcome of this decision are not only of interest to me but also to the public. Dear Prime Minister, would you please publish the contents of this decision? I firmly believe that you, as an open Prime Minister, will not have a problem with publication, which promotes transparency. Citizens have the right to know about their Prime Minister. Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u7	Thank you. It will also be answered in writing. Mr Stanislav Blaha is next in line. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u8	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, but I would really like to have a dialogue with the Prime Minister, so I will repeat my intervention, I hope, in a week's time. I suppose the Prime Minister will come and we'll be able to exchange opinions on the microphone about this thing that I didn't have time to interpel. And since I am not lucky today and the same situation is repeated with the Minister of Transport Táok, I will repeat the same procedure during the interpellation I have on him. It's drawn under number 4 in that cell block by interpelling members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u9	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Olga Richterová, who is not present in the hall, so her interpelation is failing. Mr Jakub Michálek is also not present in the hall, he is failing. Mr. Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u10	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to address you with an interview on the topic of renewable resources and their effective use in the Czech Republic and in the conditions of the Czech Republic. In particular, in the context of the forthcoming legislative proposals for the Energy Act and the Act on Supported Renewable Resources, I would like to ask you to pay more attention to this issue. I believe that in view of the development of installation prices, which have fallen significantly in recent years, the much more usable potential in terms of photovoltaic panels in combination with battery systems for a much larger number of companies and households in the Czech Republic, for which this could be a very interesting tool not only to reduce their spending but also to strengthen some part of their income. [[14.40 hours]] I would like to ask you how active you are on this issue, how you are following the issue, how you perceive the potential of renewable resources in the Czech Republic in the future at all, and how your government will handle this issue in particular with regard to the two legislative proposals already mentioned, which will also be discussed by the government in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u11	Thank you. It will be answered in writing for your interpellation. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová will prepare herself on a matter where children are at risk. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u12	Thank you for the floor. The question of inter-ministerial agreement is when the state should intervene to protect vulnerable children and when, on the contrary, the family should let go. It is something that is really important for several ministers to agree on this, which is why it is an interpellation to the Prime Minister. It also has to do with the fact that we have over 8,000 children in institutional care, thousands of other children in foster families, and, at the same time, with the fact that our social protection bodies, the relevant workers and workers, must be engaged through so-called collision custody and children from divorce families. All these kids with state attention are without any single definition of what makes the state's attention reasonable, when when I say it a little bit simplisticly, it has the right to talk into people's lives and when it has the duty to do so, because it has to stand up for children really at risk. So the question is whether the government is preparing a unified approach, any clear criteria of when the child is at risk, whether it is time for the harsh measures of social-legal protection for children. It would also help a number of teachers, managers of leisure activities or doctors. They would know when to express concerns, when to draw attention. And once again, children are supposed to grow up in families, the state is supposed to intervene only exceptionally, but if anything, there must be clear criteria for that and there should be the agreement of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health. Paragraph 6 of the Law on the Social Protection of Children is not sufficient. So I'm asking the Prime Minister what he's going to do for an interdepartmental consensus on those criteria where action is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u13	Thank you. Mr Marian Jurečka - the last two interventions on the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u14	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you with a topic which I personally consider to be one of the biggest challenges and threats to the Czech Republic, for our society, especially for the future and for the lives of our children and grandchildren in the Czech Republic in the future. I would like to ask you how you personally perceive the issue of climate change and its effects, particularly in those phenomena such as the repeated drought, the declining water supply, and to what extent it is your government's priority. Personally, I think that this should be one of the main priorities, such as the issue of safety or quality education, the very same priority should be the issue of adaptation to climate change, so that sustainable life in the Czech Republic can be in the future. If we look at the results that provide us with measurement data, for example, in the Czech Republic in 2018, the average temperature was 12,8 °C in Klementinum, which is 3.2 °C more than the average since the beginning of the measurements in 1775. My question is how, if you consider that climate change is one of the main priorities, how these things will be displayed, if any, with regard to the budget of the Czech government and individual department chapters, because I pointed out last year that, for example, chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture and, above all, investment in land adjustments do not have an adequate budget with regard to the seriousness of the situation, so that in areas that are repeatedly subject to drought, in areas where lightning floods are, we can make effective, meaningful changes in the landscape so that we can face these impacts meaningfully. So I'm asking you to give me an answer on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u15	Thank you. Another interview for the Prime Minister - Mr Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u16	I will also allow myself to be consulted on the issue of African states. I have noticed, Prime Minister, that you have been actively communicating in recent months that most African states have many structural long-term problems, that you are beginning to wonder that this topic is also starting to interest you in connection with the potential of increased trade balance, export activities of Czech entrepreneurs etc. I personally welcome this activity and thank you for your interest in this issue, and I wanted to ask how specifically the Czech Republic will proceed in this area, what visions and objectives you have in terms of, for example, strengthening the development of cooperation between specific knowledge-raising projects, the transfer of know-how to those countries that you consider important and to what extent you want to follow up on projects that, for example, took place in some African countries between 2014 and 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u17	Thank you. That's what we used up on the Prime Minister. All interpelations will be answered in writing. At this point, interpelations will begin for ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic, and I would call on Mr Ondřej Profant to give an interview to the First Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, and thus launch a block of replies from the members of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u18	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent minister, from the website of the Ministry of the Interior, it can be seen that from at least 2016 to the first half of 2018, Mr. Václav Kraus was advisor to the Deputy Minister of the Interior for the Management of the Information and Communication Technologies Section. I have learned this information with some concern, as it is the same person who testified before the Chamber of Deputies' committee of inquiry to investigate the way in which the Opencard case was investigated. Václav Kraus was head of informatics department of the City of Prague from August 2007 to January 2010, i.e. at the time when the Opencard project was still implemented and Pavel Bém ruled Prague. Václav Klaus - I'm sorry. [[Resurrection in the Hall]] Václav Kraus resigned from his position about a month after the Forensic Audit, which confirmed, among other things, that - I quote - some of the contracts concluded were disadvantageous and generated higher costs than could be achieved in the open competition of competing companies. End of quote. Even though Kraus has jumped into a project already underway, his involvement in the position of director of the key department may raise some doubts, even with regard to his contacts on the infamous background figures of Prague's politics. Since the current list of advisors and advisory bodies of the Ministry of the Interior is not available, I would like to ask you whether Václav Kraus is still an advisor to the Deputy Minister of the Interior or even to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u19	Thank you. It will be answered in writing. Mr. Václav Klaus is next in line for Minister Robert Plaga. Mr Václav Klaus is not present in the hall, so Mr Petr Pávek will take the floor to the absent minister Alena Schillerová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u20	Thank you for the floor. Madam absent Minister of Finance, since I have limited time and know that you are well versed in the laws, I will limit myself only to a brief introduction to the complex issue. The text of Law No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, in Section 6 Income from Dependent Activities, para. 12 introduced amendments to the tax package at the end of last year with effect from 1. 1. 2019 non-single taxation of employees who are participants in the social security system in other EU countries, states of the European economy, or economic community and Switzerland, which is at least 30 states, and affects thousands of employers and hundreds of thousands of foreign employees working with us in the Czech Republic. [[14.50 hours]] This has imposed a new obligation on the payroll accounting system, which most of them do not know about, and those of them that have recorded the new obligation have no idea how to learn about social security systems in other countries, how to calculate the super gross wage, how to show it and show it and how to deal with exchange rate transfers. When you ignored the warnings of the Chamber of Tax Advisors and voted over the Senate's veto, which was aware of the upcoming problems, I want to ask you what you did as Secretary of Finance to support the implementation of the above legal measure. Did you provide an education among the payroll accountants? Did she run any website where the social security rates of the states concerned are, the methodology of calculations, currency transfers, etc.? And did you train financial officials not to bully employers out of ignorance? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the problem is extremely up-to-date, as the new obligation will already be reflected in the calculation of this month's wages. Thank you for an early answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u21	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. Mr Stanislav Blaha withdraws his intervention. Mrs Jana Krutáková is next in line for Minister Richard Brabec. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, we certainly agree that the protection of water resources and public health must be considered a priority. As Minister of the Environment, you often talk about the need to fight drought and write subsidies to build new sources of drinking water. At the same time, you do not protect existing resources. The evidence is that there is a supply of groundwater on the border of South Moravian and Zlín Region. At the beginning of January, the District Mining Authority decided after thirteen years of examination to set up a mining area for gravel. However, ready mining has the potential to irreversibly destroy the drinking water spring for 140 thousand. population. There are municipalities, water operators and health professionals against them. Only the miners and some officials wish for the mining. Dear Minister, in this connection, I would like to ask you how, in this case, the Ministry of the Environment protects the sources of drinking water. Why doesn't he respect the position of his organization Czech Geological Services? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u23	Thank you. And I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my colleague. Mrs Krutáková, thank you for your question. You know he's not the first one on this matter that there's been a couple of intercessions. I think even some of your side. I'd just like to repeat the basic facts briefly. You're right that the new stimulus or the new stimulus in this situation is the decision of the District Mining Authority, but the decision has several basic conditions, and it is based, of course, not only on the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment, but if you look into the decision to set up the mining area, you will find out how many authorities concerned have agreed to that intention. It's a health department, a water service, a number of other authorities. That means, it's not just that he's a miner and a couple of officials, because it's just as much as you could say that other officials, a few opposed. What is the problem, and I have explained it repeatedly here, is that the European EIA directive does not only in this case allow the wishes of thousands of people who write petitions to be taken into account. As Minister of the Environment, I would like to approach this, virtually. I did, but I simply have to respect the European directive, which clearly states, implemented into the Czech legal series, what conditions are to be fulfilled. And I'm sure it's no surprise to you that there are several studies that we've even had arbitrators do, which, on the contrary, disprove the danger that there might be some irreversible impact on the underground water deposit. And, after all, you know for yourself, you're from the region, that there's been many years near the extraction of another miner. There's never been a threat to underground water deposits. And, among other things, according to my information, the original miner is expanding significantly and extending mining, and it's interesting, at least according to my information, I don't know if I'm completely accurate that the mining of the new miner isn't causing any negative feedback in the region, while the new one is. [[original]] It surprises me a little, because I would assume that if there is an understandable concern that any further extraction might affect the deposits of groundwater, I would expect the region to protest as much against the existing miner and its extension of mining for the next x years as well as against the new one. I would like to say that as far as the Czech Geological Service is concerned, because this was also a rather large debate, the intention of the EIA process was originally also considered acceptable and, in terms of the protection of groundwater, it was possible and its expression was the basis for the issue of the original agreement of the EIA. After the process, and I want to stress this, this is important from the legal point of view, but further studies have been made after the EIA process, which, on the contrary, questioned the intention from precautionary care. The Czech Geological Service also leaned on the precautionary principle, but without further concrete justification. And it should be noted, and that is what I have also commented on, I think the Supreme Administrative Court, that the issued opinion cannot be changed after the EIA process on the basis of new facts, but, in accordance with the principle of the Administrative Code, all new studies are the basis for further decision-making by the authorities that decide the intention. And this is important because it was done and all new studies, including the professional statements of the Czech Geological Service, had the Mining Authority with our notice that the EIA could not take into account those new studies, but that we were putting those new studies at the disposal of the Mining Authority so that it could take them into account as a basis for its decision-making. In its decision, the Mining Authority stated that, in simple terms, only the protection of the territory from the point of view of any future application for permission for mining and that all new studies, and please also need to be taken into account, and expert comments will be taken into account in the preparatory procedure for the authorisation of mining activities, this has not yet been granted and there will certainly be a large debate on this, and where it will also be examined whether this intention is currently possible. That means, we certainly don't prefer mining, we have to follow the law. And I can assure you that those permits, as well as the conclusion of the EIA, where there are several studies that show that there can be no influence, and there are some studies that show that there may be influence, so they can subsequently be reviewed by the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u25	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. And is there an interest in an additional question? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u26	So thank you for your answer. You are right, Minister, that the matter really resonates and moves the region. But just for such additions, I wanted to ask if there are such problems in other places of the Czech Republic as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u27	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u28	You're right, it occurs because we're actually - or logically we're dealing with a pretty straightforward state, which also results from the geological subsoil of many territories where sand or gravel sand mining takes place, because it's a former old riverbed or an old riverbed. And logically, the levels or the sources of groundwater are also found in these areas. And that's why, when we talked about it with our colleagues, I said that we would then have to give absolute priority, deny EIA in principle, because the EIA says that if the dangers are potentially compensated, then positive EIA opinions are issued, but with a number of other conditions. And that was also in this case. If, for example, we did. they said that there is an absolute preference for mining, virtually. protection from mining, then it means that of course it would be forced to say that it always, always has the protection, even if there was one or five percent risk of potential threat to the water or those deposits of the water, always prefers to mining. That means, I know of several other places where, of course, it's an issue of dealing with the EIA ad hoc, always the individual specific solution to the conditions, but I don't know that there are such dramatic concerns or dramatic disputes in any other location. But I would still like to ask again and actually to look at it from the perspective of the territory as a whole and the historical experience, because it is best to always look at whether there has been a water threat in decades. And here, at least according to my information, it's gone. But I say for myself, of course, I always prefer water to anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u29	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Jakub Michálek for Minister Jan Kněžínek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u30	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my intervention concerns the case of alleged influence of judges, which is now one of the most resonating cases in public space. We, as a subcommittee on justice, have held a meeting where we have invited representatives of both the judges and Chancellor Mynář, and we have heard their views. I would like to ask the Minister if this is standard, if the Chancellor, as an employee of citizens who works in the Office of the President of the Republic, has systematically contacted the Judge of the Constitutional Court on a matter in which he decides, and if it is standard that the President of the Supreme Administrative Court is talking about the President offering him the position of head of the Constitutional Court in exchange for the handling of judgments. I think that when someone as president offers a position for influencing a decision - and now I'm not saying that it did, but it's what Mr. Baxa says, and it's a thing that we should definitely say - it's just as serious as if the health minister was offering the position of hospital director to a doctor who's gonna kill a patient. This is simply a matter which must not happen in justice because it threatens the public's confidence in justice. So I want to ask you if the things that are there are standard, and if you're going to do more than just say that the pressure to influence decision-making cannot be prevented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u31	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u32	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, Mr Michálek, I find it quite difficult to talk about a situation where I have not been. And you yourself say that the version or those versions of events, as they were presented not only in the media but also on your subcommittee yesterday, differ from the point of view of the actors. That means, we know that there was a meeting, we know that there wasn't one, there were too many of them for my taste, but we don't know exactly what was going on at the meeting, so it's hard to judge whether everything was standard or not. Of course, if anyone were to act on the judge to make a decision and promise him an advantage for it, it would, of course, be very bad. It would be wrong, whether any constitutional official or anyone else would do it. And it doesn't matter if it's money or a public office. On the other hand, and I've actually said it recently, it would have been a lot worse if the judge had agreed to it. I'm a little sorry in this situation if the events took place as presented by former Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court of Baxa, that he's now coming up with this, that he didn't come up with it when this was supposed to be happening at the meeting, because, of course, even if we're talking about people who enjoy immunity under the law, he could at least fulfill the signs of the crime at the stage of preparation, maybe an attempt. The fact that he's only coming up with it now, from my point of view, raises doubts about what could have actually happened in the meantime, whether in his head or in some other meetings, if some had followed. The fact that judges meet politicians alone, however, from my point of view, is not faulty. They don't live in a greenhouse. And if they lived in a greenhouse, it would be even worse, because then their decision would be consistent. They're part of standard life. So I don't even care that the meetings were going on. There were too many for my taste. It's a question of who initiated them. What fills me with optimism to some extent is that the President of the Republic was not very successful in cases where influence was supposed to occur. He lost the dispute about the appointment of professors, at least at the stage at which we are currently present, the Civil Service Act was not abolished except for one provision and we cannot doubt that it was unconstitutional. The one paragraph was really problematic from the very beginning and there was a reason to cancel it. That means justice in this case, if it were appropriate to talk about any influence, it stood up to me, and that is crucial to me because it was not decided as allegedly the one who allegedly wanted to have an effect on the judge, according to President Baxa or Judge Šimíček. And I might add one more thing to that. You don't even have to be a judge, and if there's a legal dispute and you know who's on his side and what's the subject, you can quite simply guess who's interested in the outcome, because no one goes to court to lose in court. Therefore, the very information that the President of the Republic wishes to make a decision one way or another does not conflict with what was the content of the file and what those judges knew without any contact with the President of the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u33	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, thank you for your comments. I'd like to follow up on that. Of course, we are not talking here about the fact that judges should grow up in a greenhouse like flowers, but about the fact that one party of the dispute meets with a judge at secret meetings and even meets not only one judge, but probably a whole series of judges, because it follows from what was said at yesterday's hearing. I believe that you, as the supreme representative of the executive power in the area of justice, should deal with this matter, say actively, that you should actively collect the evidence for your decision or any further action. I think it would be appropriate for you to meet with the President of the Republic and discuss this matter with him, as it generally concerns trust in creation processes in general. That means we're going to take over the other chiefs of the courts, and if this were to happen again, that, of course, undermines trust in the exercise of justice. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I think that you, as the executive representative, as the chief executive officer, should be more active in this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u35	Thank you. Is the Minister interested in an answer? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u36	I'm really only going to react very briefly. Of course, the Minister of Justice's options are limited to some extent. I can't stop the President of the Republic from inviting anyone or inviting anyone to the President of the Republic to attend such a meeting. I don't even feel like it's some kind of secret meeting, that it's a cover-up, that they even took place. I myself remember that at least after some of them, I didn't research those meetings, there were even press conferences about the fact that justice officials met with the President of the Republic, or that was at least known information, which was also published on the website. Like I said, I don't think contact alone is problematic. No Minister of Justice or anyone else can whistle a dispute that he hasn't been to himself, if it's done in private, even in a situation where the knowledge comes out at this very moment, with a huge distance of time. We can ask ourselves why the findings of the judges have not been communicated earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u37	Thank you. I'll read the apologies next. Mrs Taťána Malá apologizes from 15:30 to 19:00 for family reasons. Mr Martin Jiránek from 15 a.m. to 19 p.m. due to the hearing. There is also a cancellation of Mr Milan Hnilička's apology. He only apologizes from 15 to 16 hours for work reasons. The next in line is Mr Marian Jurečka to the absent Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u38	Thank you. Dear Minister of Transport, I would like to interpel you in three rather important areas such as electromobility, national polygon and autonomous management. Because the government of the Czech Republic has signed a memorandum and an action plan on the future of the automotive industry for Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. I wanted to ask how this action plan is going to be implemented, how it is being implemented and what problematic moments you see whether from the point of view of legislation or not. in terms of other contexts. I see this as an important issue because we see that the shift and higher demands on emission standards are forcing car manufacturers in the European Union to continue to develop electric cars more quickly, they will be forced to offer them more or more on the market in the coming years at internally subsidised prices from the budgets of these car manufacturers, so that they do not pay extremely high penalties for breaches of emission limits. This is a threat to the Czech Republic, but also an opportunity in terms of the development of new fields, in terms of the fact that we can stay at the top of these new technologies, but on the other hand it is also a threat that I may see a problem that is not sufficiently addressed e.g. the infrastructure for charging these electric cars, does not deal with these matters legislatively within the framework of the construction law or other laws. So I wanted to ask you, Minister, whether you could give a concrete assessment of how the specific measures mentioned in the memorandum are being implemented and where we are in a slip or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u39	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. The next is Mr Radek Koten on behalf of Minister Marta Nováková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u40	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Secretary, allow me to raise a few questions concerning our energy distribution system. So far, there are two companies operating on our market that distribute this energy to end-users. It is therefore a semi-state company E.ON, where the State's share is around 68 percent, plus a private German public limited company E.ON. I live in the Highlands. Unfortunately, the standard of the last few years is that if one day it rains or one day winds or one day winds, so basically in the regions of the Highlands the current does not work. This is, of course, not only a matter of our Highlands, but also of other regions, which are much worse off with weather effects than the Highlands with altitudes somewhere around 700 meters. I wonder how from your point of view it can be solved that in the Czech Republic the law on high voltage management protection zones has changed and now, according to my information, it is about 7.5 meters. It's weird in the convention that if the trees rise 30 to 35 meters, it's clear to everyone above the sun that in the case of wind or any frost trees fall on the electrical lines. I would be very interested to know, today, when we are absolutely keyly dependent on electricity - in the event that energy is out, our citizens can't even buy food, they can't buy petrol, fuel, they can't pay - so I wonder how your ministry will deal with this problem. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u41	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u42	Good afternoon. Mr President, Mr Koten, honourable Members, on your question, I would like to say that we have one of the best distribution networks in Europe. Our distribution systems work with high reliability and high quality. Of course, there may be situations that you have described, but they usually occur in extreme weather situations or some elemental events. In such cases, the distribution system operators shall have on standby specialised crews of technicians who depart for these accidents and work to eliminate them. It is owed to say that accidents usually occur due to damage to the distribution network in difficult terrains, which makes it difficult for work to do. Even though there have been cases that you describe, which are an intervention of force majeure, there has never been a situation where an emergency had to be declared. The emergency situation is thus a significant and sudden lack of electricity or a threat to the integrity of the electricity system, its safety and reliability of operation throughout the territory of the State or the designated territory or part thereof. As I have already said, faultiness is primarily caused by the fall of trees in spruce monocultures caused by strong winds combined with high snow cover, when heavy wet snow falls, as it has been in recent days. The situation of the last two disasters was most serious in the forest sections, mostly in mountain areas. The protection zone is governed by law and the distribution system operator has no right to enter outside this protection zone and remove trees. Distribution system operators pay great attention to the maintenance of the protection zones and invest large resources in them, beyond standard work, as maintenance of the protection zones is primarily a matter for landowners. As I have already said, the network of distribution systems is characterised by high robustness and reliability, and operators carry out continuous regular maintenance of all installations, which is also linked to the restoration and further strengthening of the network, especially in those areas where there could be a shortage of electricity supply or outages caused by a small network density. Each distribution system operator in the Czech Republic processes and, after approval by the Energy Regulatory Authority, publishes a plan for the development of the distribution system on its website, in which it takes into account the needs of the distribution network even in the future. If we wanted to completely prevent the power outages caused by the trees falling into the line, we would have to significantly expand the scope of the protection zones, especially for high voltage lines. So far, the trees, as you said, are higher in the vicinity of the protection zone than it is in its width, but that's how it's done by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u43	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. You described it exactly here. It's exactly what the law says. And now I'm asking how you want to explain this to the mayors of the municipalities, plus the entrepreneurs who do business here in those areas where this happens quite regularly. I can tell you that, for example. 14 days ago, the blackout was seven times a week because of a fallen tree, one, the other, the third or the seventh, somewhere along the way, on the route. How do you explain that? How do you want to handle this? Who's gonna make up for the damage to those companies whose operation is dependent on power supplies? I know there used to be a whole different calamity here a long time ago, there were other snow conditions, far bigger than they are at present, but unfortunately, the law, which sometimes happened here at the turn of the century, the safety zones have changed, the width has changed. And now I think it's a pretty good time for the government to react somehow and try to prevent the blackouts here. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u45	Thank you. Madam Secretary is interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u46	Mr President, Mr Member, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comment. Yes, this is due to legislation, and it should be noted that to change legislation and extend the width of those zones, it would mean an intervention in the ownership of the land of forest owners who are at the border of the protection zone. And we know that any such intervention is, of course, a very sensitive matter and would require consensus across the political spectrum, because otherwise it is very difficult to implement such legislation. And as far as I know, trials have been made in the past, and they've never passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u47	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Jan Zahradník for Minister Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on the state of zoning in the Šumava National Park. On 30 November last year, as a member of the Šumava National Park Council for the South Bohemia Region, I took part in her meeting, where there was also information about the preparation of the zoning in the National Park. The resonation was presented to us in rough terms. Basically, in addition to some sauce there were numerical values of the percent distribution zones: 30 percent natural zone, 20 percent nature zone close, 49 percent concentrated care zone and 1% cultural landscape zone. It aroused my fears, or it confirmed my concern that 50% and more without interference from Law 114 would simply be fulfilled. We do not yet have any information on how the negotiations with the municipalities are taking place, nor do we have information that negotiations on the preparation of the principles of care in the Šumava National Park have been initiated. Moreover, the accessibility of the territory and the care regime will significantly affect the definition of the scheme. quiet zones, which according to the law the park administration can declare. This inspires a relatively significant sense of legal uncertainty in the Šumava municipalities. My questions are, Minister: what is the preparation of the zoning? How will the meeting of the zoning with the municipalities take place? How are the quiet areas of the Šumava National Park prepared? And what is the condition of preparing the principles of care?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u49	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u50	Thanks for the word. Mr President, fellow Members, thank you for your question or for your question. Of course, Mr Zahradník is very well-versed in the matter, so that makes it easier to explain. The design of the Šumava National Park is currently being prepared. The proposal has already been approved by the Ministry of Environment and first presented to the public at the seminar in Vimperk, namely on 22 January. During the following months, this proposal will be discussed with members of the Šumava National Park Council and other regional representatives, including personal meetings with various mayors. The proposal for zoning can - I would like to stress this - therefore, according to the comments made, it can be adjusted and it is really in this sense a proposal for this matter. Continual consultations with the members of the Board took place last year during the preparation of the proposal. A meeting of the Šumava National Park Council will be convened at the beginning of April this year, at which the draft zoning should be agreed with the National Park Council, as required by the valid text of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. By mid-March, the National Park Administration shall adopt any suggestions and suggestions for this resonation in order to be able to incorporate any changes in that proposal, which will thus be submitted to the National Park Board at the beginning of April. It will then be prepared its own draft decree on zoning, so that by 31 May a legislative process can be initiated in the framework of an inter-ministerial commentary procedure. This step may be preceded by further negotiations with the members of the Šumava National Park by the Ministry of Finance in the event of no agreement with the National Park Council on the proposal. As Mr Zahradník said, specific proposals were presented for the scope of the individual zones. I would just minorly adjust that the current situation is that the proposed zoning design contains approximately 27 per cent of the natural zone, 27 per cent of the nature zone close to it, 45 per cent of the concentrated care zone and 1 per cent of the cultural landscape zone. The area of the natural zone corresponds to this, and I would like to stress this, corresponds to the current area of forest crops and other ecosystems on which no intervention regime is currently applied. This means that the area without intervention is not increased in any way, it remains at the same level. And here I would like to, and we have already discussed this with the Member in the proceedings, here I would also like to discuss it with the national park administration, respectively. with the director of the national park and with my respective deputy in charge of the matter, stress that it is not really an intervention-free regime of 50 or even 50 x percent of the park, but only 27 %, because the nature zone is close, i.e. in the design of the other 27 % of the area of the national park, so in the relevant documents there will be taken into account the possibility to intervene, for example, in the case of barking sludge. This means that the 27 percent of nature close doesn't mean that it wouldn't be possible to interfere, for example, with bark. I want to stress that. This means that at this point, the scope is actually preserved in principle without intervention as it is today. I confess that at the moment I do not have information about the current state, virtually. on the timetable in the case of quiet areas. And I'll deliver them, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u51	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u52	Minister, you've got two more minutes, so I'm just gonna remind you how to set up a care policy, where without it, the zonation is just a dead document. And then there's one more thing I'd like to remind you of. I remember well when the Senate bill on the Šumava National Park was discussed, it was in the Senate as they watched it from the guest gallery, and you said back then that you could assure the Šumava municipalities that there would be a relatively large area for their development. You were talking about ten percent of the cultural landscape zone back then, now it's one percent. What are these communities supposed to do? How are they to develop? This is basically a signal for them that they should reduce their development activities and resign to some development. And I think that's a big mistake. I intercede for you to consider the regime of special care zones for the landscape and for the Šumava municipalities to develop them even more space than they are considering in that one percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u53	Thank you. The Minister is interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u54	Absolutely. I also said that this is a proposal at this point. And I'll admit that by the time I answered that in the Senate, I don't remember now, but I have no reason not to believe that there was a ten percent talk, so I definitely had some information that was available at the time. However, I say again, that one percent today is not constant or rigid. We will definitely continue to discuss this with individual municipalities. And my point is that municipalities really have room for development in their pre-emptive territories. So I don't consider it one percent as the final percentage. It will really be the subject of further negotiations with individual mayors on an individual basis. It's open at the moment. And I'm sure we'll be able to get you the term of care as well as the rest of the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u55	Thank you. The next in line is Mr. Vít Rakušan for Minister Miroslav Toman. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u56	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, my question is simple and follows from the interpellation I made at the Finance Minister's meeting last year. I asked how the projects for Agrofert from the Czech budget were prefinanced and how many projects for Agrofert from the Czech budget when the European Union refused to repay the funds until the possible conflict of interests of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Andrej Babiš, was examined. The Minister was not present for oral questioning, but she replied in writing. [[15.30 hours]] According to her information, it was paid from the state budget of 80.6 million. CZK for pre-financing, however, referred me to the fact that it does not have an overview of those projects where the Ministry of Agriculture is the managing body. In her reply, she specifically referred me to ask you, Minister, on this subject. Once again, here I repeat my simple question. To what extent, and if at all, did the Ministry of Agriculture pre-finance projects, or finance, which should be reimbursed from European subsidies to Agrofert and companies that are linked to Agrofert holding? I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture should have a good overview of this in the current programming period, and I very much hope for a concrete answer from the Ministry of Finance, because these funds would still be paid by taxpayers, i.e. citizens of the Czech Republic, and it is with a great question whether they will even be reimbursed by the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u57	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u58	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Dear Member, according to information from the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, all applications were fully reimbursed by the European Commission on 23 January of this year by the Czech Republic. The State Agricultural Intervention Fund does not register any problem with the reimbursement by the European Commission. The European Commission's request, in general, concerns that SZIF should not submit an application from Agrofert approved after 2 August 2018 within the framework of the so-called "SZIF'. project measures of the Rural Development Programme. According to my information, the State Agricultural Intervention Fund complies with this requirement. According to information publicly available on the website of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, 913 million European agricultural subsidies were paid to Agrofert companies last year. CZK, 704 miles. CZK for direct payments, 132 million. CZK on total subsidies, 8 million. CZK on payments of the market organization and 67 million. CZK for project measures. This year Agrofert received 91 miles. CZK, only on so-called. entitlement grants. I would like to assure you that payouts are being made in standard modes, by sending a request to the European Commission for reimbursement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u59	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? I see that I do, so I will ask the Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u60	Thank you very much, Minister, for the precise information, for the relevant data you gave me. The supplementary question is very simple. You yourself mentioned the decisive date 2. 8. 2018, i.e. the date from which no funds from European funds should be paid out on projects linked to Agrofert holding. I ask whether, from this decisive date until the end of 2018, the Ministry of Agriculture, as managing body through other organisations, did not pay Agrofert holding other than claim subsidies from national funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u61	The Minister is interested in an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u62	Thank you for this question. SZIF plans to send payment applications for paid applications from 16. 10 to 31. 12., i.e. tomorrow is dispatched, within this application there is one project of the applicant belonging to the Agrofert group. This application was lodged 28. 10. approved 23. 7. and I think that makes it okay. However, SZIF personnel are in contact with DG AGRI personnel. They asked for an opinion on whether to leave this payment in the application or to remove it. There is no answer yet, but according to the telephone conversation, there is no objection yet, but I do not have it, and once I have the answer from DG AGRI, I will be happy to give it to you. Just for the record, it's 1.5 miles in order. Kč. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u63	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Olga Richterová, who will interpel Mrs Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u64	Thank you. I am very glad that the Minister is here, that there are many other ministers. My question. I would like to ask about the functioning of the labour offices, because again in the media as a year ago, information appeared that some authorities are late with the payment of social support benefits. It's a big problem. Last year, the Social Policy Committee has also repeatedly devoted itself to this, because then, for example, people are forced to take such very disadvantageous short-term loans when they know that they are entitled to support, to come, and the office simply collapses and does not pay off. I wonder if there are any system measures you're planning in relation to the Labor Office. It is clear, of course, that these are overall information systems with which officials have to perform difficult, poorly paid work, but besides information systems that are a problem, of course, the issue of fluctuations in individual workplaces is how they manage to occupy direct contact points with clients, how the entire working team works there at all, mutual support from various specializations. And I have one final question. Recently, so-called. quartal reporting of services, which is something that burdens administrative workers. Is there any evaluation of established legislation, are changes planned so that the Authority and support can function as efficiently as possible and avoid delays? That's what I'm particularly interested in. I'm curious to know the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u65	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u66	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree, we have a long-term staffing undersize at the employment offices. This is particularly true in cases where dosages are being decided. This has become very important in the context of the amendment to the Act on State Social Support, which has started to apply since 1 January last year, when it has just passed from annual proof of income to quarterly child allowances and precisely to refine and rewrite housing costs for the housing allowance. Even though we increased the salaries of civil servants, and specifically of employees of labour offices, it was ten percent in volume, we are failing to stabilise this situation in the long term. The most critical situation is the situation at the regional branch of Prague, logically, there are the highest cost of life, in the capital there is the highest level of wages and salaries at all, which is why we have a problem with enough employees, especially the contact point for Prague 4, where eleven systems are currently vacant on the state social support section. The Office of Labour of the Czech Republic has been trying to occupy these places for a long time, a crisis staff has been set up to deal with the situation in this workplace and we are dealing with staff in particular with the following measures. Assistance from employees from other agencies as well as from other workplaces within the Czech Republic, because it allows the Civil Service Act, ordering clients for a specific day and hour, is a very effective tool, using e.g. Internet and the like, client handling despite lunch breaks and performance of work beyond working time as well as significant extension of information service for filling out requests for benefits and submitting necessary documents. The situation in this contact workplace in Prague 4 has been stabilised since 10 January and the payment of benefits due for the fourth quarter of 2018 has been processed on 21 January of this year. Ninety cases remain pending at the moment, because the employment office is waiting for the client's documentation to be delivered. Such applications shall also be processed without delay upon receipt of the necessary supporting documents and the benefits shall be paid. [[15.40 hours]] For your information only - The Directorate-General of the Labour Office continues to carry out supervision monitoring. In January, 1,100 applications were submitted to the applicant in that year in the fourth quarter of 2018. The remaining 90 applications that I have just mentioned will be processed by the end of January. These are applications for the period October to December of last year. In January 2019 approximately 3,800 requests for welfare benefits were accepted at the Prague 4 Contact Workplace, and in the context of crisis management from the level of the Directorate-General, the situation at the Prague 4 Contact Workplace, where the worst situation is regularly monitored and evaluated. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, it is legislation that pays for a year. At this point we are really evaluating the first 12 months and we want to deal with this after the first quarter of 2019, i.e. probably in April of this year. And then, for example, there. provide further information on the Social Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u67	Thank you. There is an interest in an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u68	Thank you very much for your answer. I would just like to ask briefly, you yourself mentioned that the situation in Prague 4 is a long-term problem. I have already discussed this with the Director-General in the past, that it is, of course, difficult in Prague. I asked what measures they would take so that the Prague Labour Office could function. And I already see it as a humane failure, because it doesn't really seem to have improved in three quarters of a year. So I'm going to ask you how to work specifically as a superior body, as a ministry, with the fact that, in short, this particular branch and branches of Prague in general have not improved in my time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u69	Thank you. I'll ask the secretary if she's interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u70	I can repeat what I said that we have the exceptional problem in Prague, that there are very high salaries and the Directorate-General of the Labour Office and the Labour Office is not competitive in Prague, the capital, with the salaries as set up. It is not only the Labour Office but also the Czech Social Security Administration. We are trying to face these things with another set of extra-plated motivations to get qualified and, in particular, enough workers. And one of the things we've been promising since the new year, because there's been an increase in salaries in the state sector, as I mentioned, at the Labour Office, it's 9.9 percent, if I remember correctly, so that's what we're promising is that it's the hiring of employees who are running through the civil service, which means they're going to be running in the next few weeks, so that it's going to stabilize.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u71	Thank you. At this point, I will ask Mr Jiří Kohoutek to intersect Minister Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, plastic has become an essential part of our lives. It combines amazing functionality and very low production costs. But these are bought out by demanding recycling to the environmental burden already during their production. If production grows as much as it has before, there will be more plastics in the world in 2050 than the weight of fish in all the world's oceans. In the Czech Republic, 57,5 percent of PET bottles are sent for recycling. In this respect, please answer the following questions. Firstly, what measure is your ministry considering in order to reduce the consumption of plastics? Secondly, does your ministry consider introducing a backup system in order to increase the recycling rate of plastic packaging, since the introduction of a backup system would reduce the environmental impact of production and recycling of PET bottles by 28 percent? Third: How many percent of the plastics that are sent for recycling are actually recycled? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u73	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u74	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the interview, because it's a bit of a dunk record. I may as well say, and perhaps Mr Kohoutek, if he is obviously interested in the matter, he knows that the Ministry is not only preparing some activities, but we are already implementing some. For example, we are behind the campaign Enough plastic, which was ahead of even the European directive, which is currently being prepared, in terms of banning disposable plastics. This means that there is a revolutionary proposal for a European directive, which the Czech Republic also actively supported and reminded. It contains a number of measures, e.g. including the total ban on certain plastic products, such as plastic disposable dishes, food boxes that we know, plastic things like straws, etc., it is a total of about ten products. The directive should be finally approved at European level by the middle of this year and subsequently transposed into the Czech legal system within two years at the latest, and we will now be translating it into the upcoming legislation on packaging. Besides, before the directive starts to apply, maybe you know that we're just charging plastic bags, so-called. plastic, they have achieved that in many chains the consumption of plastic has decreased by up to 80 percent and some chains have completely ceased to offer it. They don't even sell them and they don't give them away for free. These are very effective steps. In addition, we are preparing a new law, as I said, on waste and packaging. And it will also include emphasis on so-called. ecomodulation, which means that it will force manufacturers to take into account recycling potential in their products not only plastic but mainly plastic. Because some recycled products, such as It is the pets that are paradoxically the most talked about, but there is relatively the least problem with pets because there is a great demand for pets and it is one of the few plastics that is well recyclable and also brings concrete benefits in terms of the use of the recycling. A much bigger problem is with other plastics, which are not so well recyclable. There were many important companies in the Czech Republic, foreign and domestic countries involved in the campaign Enough plastic. And I can mention companies such as IKEA, Benzina, Bageterie Boulevard, Starbucks, Costa Coffee, České dráhy etc., which themselves claim that even without some specific directive themselves try to significantly reduce the consumption of plastics. Your question. Now, in recent days and weeks, there has been intense talk of backup of plastics. Recently, the company Karlovy Vary Mineral Water, I think with the High School of Chemical Technology, presented the possibility of backup of plastics. I would like to stress that backup of peteks today and under the existing law is not a problem to do, even the existing law makes it possible. But Slovakia, which is preparing a similar system, had several studies prepared. So far, we only have the one presented by Karlovy Vary mineral water company. We know that the Union of Cities and Municipalities wanted to do its study. The Ministry of Environment has also commissioned a similar study because the Czech Republic, unlike other countries, has a very well-functioning packaging sorting system. We are even at the top of plastic packaging in Europe in terms of packaging sorting. And thanks to the system of well-known yellow containers, we are currently sorting up to 80 percent of PET bottles placed on the market, so we will collect them back. By the way, the European target for 2025 is 77 percent. So we are already fulfilling the European objective at present, the one for 2025. In 2029 to 90 percent. For example, the Union of Towns and Municipalities argues that if PET bottles were backed up, of course, only one profitable commodity would fall out of those yellow containers and, of course, it would make the whole system more expensive not only for producers, but also for municipalities. So we are now waiting for the results of further studies that we should have available in the coming months, and we will decide accordingly. It's not at all true that we're against the introduction of backup. And I'll save that last answer for the other part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u75	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? I see you do, so I'll ask the Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u76	Thank you for your answer. I'd still have two additional ones like that. How much of the plastic waste consists of disposable packaging? And then, if there's a program in schools that would teach even the smallest to limit the consumption of plastics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u77	I'll ask the minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u78	I confess that I don't know the number of disposable plastic from the total, but of course we'll fill it in for you. I wanted to answer that last question of yours, and then I'm sure I'll make a statement on the issue of education, which is very important. You asked how many percent of the plastics that are sent for recycling are actually recycled. The recycling rate of plastics is about 50 to 55 percent, 25 percent of plastics are used energyally and approximately 20 percent are removed from the landfill. The rate of landfilling, of course, depends on the low price of landfilling, and this is what the Ministry wants to change under the new Waste Act. It means, and I want to stress that in order to revolutionize plastics, we can't just focus on the pets, even if it's the most visible part, because, as I said, paradoxically, it's the least painful part of the system. China, perhaps you know, has decided since the beginning of last year to significantly reduce the import of plastics, and it turns out that many European countries that were breast-feeding by having a high level of plastic recycling have shown that recycling has also been directed to China many times, respectively. recycling consisted in the fact that the plastics were loaded and transported to China and reported as recycled. Of course, this is certainly not a course of action that we would like to follow. For us, pets like other plastics, other plastics are just as important because today, unfortunately, those manufacturers are acting like they are inventing more and more complex plastics, combinations of plastics, then they are badly recycled, and there we would like to force them to focus on the so-called. ecomodulation. The question of education is clear. We also cooperate in the preparation of the curriculum within the Ministry of Education. We have a whole range of educational programs, we support a whole range of organizations that are currently talking in schools - sorry, I am done - about the importance of recycling and sorting plastics, so we are taking a lot of steps in this matter. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u79	Thank you. Before I give the floor next in line, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, I shall read the apology of Mrs Válková Warová, today between 16 and 18 o'clock, for work reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u80	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in October last year, the Ministry of Agriculture proposed a total ban on the appearance and dressage of animals in circuses. The proposal was part of an amendment to the Animal Protection Act against Abuse. The ban on dressage of all animals now applies, for example, in Italy, the Netherlands or Greece, in Germany or Poland, this is being discussed. These countries were also referred to by the Ministry of Agriculture. 14,000 people signed a petition against wildlife farming in circuses addressed to your ministry. According to a representative poll carried out by FOCUS last September, 74 percent of Czech citizens would agree to extend the ban on the use of animals in circuses to at least wild animals. The disapproval of the breeding and dressage of wild animals in circuses is pronounced by 70 per cent of respondents and 81 per cent of respondents believe that animals living in circuses do not have a comparable value as other members of their species in the wild. Yet the Ministry of Agriculture turned around in December and you opposed the ban. Why this turn, Minister? How is it possible that you presented the Ministry's proposal and only within two months you changed your position by 180 degrees? At the Ministry, an expert group was formed to ban dressage. Are there any concrete conclusions of this group yet? How does the Department of Agriculture now oppose the ban on dressage, and why? The impression is that you succumbed to the circus lobby, which, of course, was not happy about the announced ban on animal dressage, to put it mildly. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u81	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u82	Mr President, Madam Members, honourable Members, the Ministry of Agriculture, as has been said here, is preparing an amendment to Act No. 246/1992 Coll., for the protection of animals against abuse, and now there is a settlement of the comments applied in the interdepartmental commentary procedure and there are modifications of this material. One of the questions addressed in the upcoming amendment is also the question of breeding beasts and apes. The amendment deals not only with the issue of dressage, but it deals with the area of protection of wild animals kept in captivity more widely. The amendment extends forbidden activities with selected species of predators and apes. The aim is to prohibit pet zoos and similar equipment that use pets with wild captive animals to increase their profits. It can be assumed that the ban on pet corners will lead to a decrease in demand for cubs of catworms. New cubs attractive for caressing and photoshooting were required to be available at all times in the pet enclosures, therefore it is also prohibited to remove the young animals from their mother and their artificial feeding before they were withdrawn except where, according to the assessment of the veterinarian, this is necessary due to the health of the mother or the young. It is also prohibited to walk selected species of wild animals and apes in the public area, the amendment also lays down conditions for the protection of selected species of wild animals and apes. These are, in particular, the conditions for breeding animals, equipment and size of the premises for animals to be determined by the implementing decree. The obligation to prevent the release of these animals is explicitly laid down. The amendment also regulates the course in the care of selected species of predators and apes. As far as animal dressage is concerned, the amendment completely prohibits the implementation of dressage in dolphins, the appearance of dolphins in dolphins will not be possible in the Czech Republic. Now there is no delfinarium activity, but these efforts are emerging. It should be recalled that from 1. 3. 2004 Dressage is prohibited in newly born primates, fins, cetaceans, excluding dolphin, rhinoceros, hippopotamus or giraffe. Since July 2006, Decree No. 346/2006 Coll., on the establishment of closer breeding conditions and dressage of animals. According to veterinary law, regional veterinary authorities register circuses, issue registers of animals in circuses and registers of places where circus performances are held. Passports for circus animals shall be issued by the veterinarians for this activity and shall be endorsed by the official veterinarians of the competent county veterinary administrations. The Commission Regulation also applies. 1739/2005 of 21 October 2005 laying down animal health requirements for the movement of circus animals between Member States. In relation to other species of animals, the question of limiting their dressage is now addressed. The Ministry of Agriculture has received a number of different suggestions and opinions on the issue of dressage in circuses. Therefore, a working group was set up to prepare the conditions for implementing the animal dressage. Several meetings have already been held in this working group. The Working Group is currently discussing the issue of licensing for the implementation of dressage, the scope of licences and the conditions for granting them. Department of Agriculture according to information I have, respectively. The committee is proposing a solution that doesn't anticipate a total ban on dressage of all animals in circuses. The preferred option assumes the implementation of licensing procedures for circuses and other persons who perform public appearances with selected species. The licence would be issued by the State Veterinary Administration and would concern those circuses and other persons who use animals from the order of beasts, the family of cats and the family of bears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u83	Thank you, Minister. Is there an interest in an additional question? I see you do. I'll ask the lady of the house.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u84	Thank you for reading it to me this way, the list they prepared for you at the Ministry, but there were no clear answers to my questions that were raised here. Does that mean why the turnover is happening in the settlement of comments? I understand that, of course, both opinions will appear, but the beginning was clear that the Ministry wanted to proceed to the larger ban on dressage. And I would also actually be very simply interested in your opinion, your personal opinion as a minister, whether or not this general ban is to be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u85	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u86	Thank you. In terms of turnover, I didn't want to comment because what was written in the paper wasn't true. It was: from around Minister Toman we learned that he prefers the circus Humberto etc. So I don't want to react to these things at all. [[16.00 hours]] As far as the ban is concerned, it was a certain opinion of the group, which we sort of settled in the Ministry. I must say, the group works very carefully. The view is that it should be wild animals, but this must be specified in the very licenses so that we do not strengthen some of the animals that are intended to do so. I think that within a few months the committee will issue a regulation. But it's not my opinion that matters here. I'm looking for a compromise here. I think we'll go the same way as in Switzerland and other countries. It must be said that this is being discussed in Germany, for example. Just like ours, they don't have those conclusions. So we'll be looking for the way. We're really going to talk about the wild animals, but we want to do it in the form of a license, so that it is under the strict control of the State Veterinary Administration, where it will be specified precisely. And I believe we will find that consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u87	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mrs Lenka Kozlová apologizes today between 14.30 and 18 on account of negotiations. And I'm handing over the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u88	Good evening, everyone. And I will invite Mr Lukáš Bartona, who will interpel in the matter of Minister Plaga's framework education programmes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u89	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, an innovation strategy is being completed at this time. The innovative potential of the Czech Republic depends also on the quality of secondary vocational education. Therefore, I would like to ask the following question. Framework training programmes for secondary vocational education were updated in 2017, 2018. When does the Ministry intend to publish them, and what strategy will the Ministry choose in relation to the innovation strategy in the area of development of vocational education?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u90	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u91	Thank you. Dear Member, as regards the framework education programmes for secondary vocational education, as you said, have been updated, or the work has been carried out, in 2017, 2018. These framework programmes are now in a reminder procedure at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. These proposals for updates in this particular case, i.e. for secondary vocational training, have been discussed, or submitted to employers' representatives, i.e. the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Confederation of Employment and Business Unions, to assess the requirements for the professional competence of graduates in the fields of education, in the light of those innovative procedures, approaches and also the digitization factor, which is undoubtedly crucial for future practice, or the future of future graduates. During the update, the corresponding competences of the relevant professional qualifications of the national qualification system related to the fields of education were implemented. At the same time, we have submitted these framework training programmes for comments and for school associations. The aim of the update of the technical sections of the secondary education framework programmes for vocational training was undoubtedly to link with the current technologies in the field and procedures and to better adapt them to the current technologies used in the specific sectors concerned. Of course, one of the domains that appears there is 3D technologies, especially in technical fields and fields of art, and the ability to use and work with current technical means. And I could go on like this. But I believe that many of the things that appear in the different strategies, so part of the revision of these sub-parts for secondary vocational education, so there it is. But allow me to use the time for the revision of the framework education programmes more generally. In the past, there was pressure to make these revisions happen very quickly, and rather to follow the timetable. I believe that the subject of changes to framework education programmes needs to be more open to the public and reflect future needs. That is why, I do not want to say stopped, but slowed down the work, because I think that reform must be integrally linked, or change in the framework of education programmes with the 2030 strategy, which should include, of course, individual methods. So much for the introduction, I guess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u92	Thank you. The Member will be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u93	Thank you for responding in connection with the innovation strategy probably. However, the question of when they will be published. This is an update of the expert part and this year we will have a comprehensive review. This update will be published when it's part of the review, or will it be published before the revision takes place?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u94	Thank you for your follow-up. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u95	I am not avoiding the answer to whether the framework education programmes for secondary vocational education will be published. So if this commentary procedure is going on now and it is going to be so that all actors will be satisfied with their wording, then I believe that they can be published and do not have to wait in this particular case for that comprehensive change in the framework education programmes. And if that's not the case, as I said, it's important for me to do - because we're talking about how we're going to determine education for a longer period of time. So it's better for me to be right and a little bit later than not enough and fast. I think I've already declared this in relation to the RVP several times, and it also applies to this segment that you're asking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u96	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Munzar, who will interpel on housing prices for Minister Dostálová, Mr Výborný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, thank you for taking the time to interview me about the price of flats. Apartment prices have risen alarmingly over the last few years. In Prague, for example, prices of flats and houses have increased by half in the last four years. It is not just the problem of Prague, it is the problem of big cities, it is the problem of the Central Bohemia Region, it is the problem of most regions, most territories of the Czech Republic. By increasing the price of housing, of course, its availability, the availability of ownership housing is limited. And it contributes to this difficult situation by regulating mortgages by the Czech National Bank, which further reduces the availability of housing. However, the problem is not on the demand side, which the state and the Czech National Bank regulate, because the need for housing will not decrease, but on the supply side. So I want to ask you when a new building bill will be introduced, which will speed up and make housing construction cheaper. Moreover, we have the current European Commission's action to tighten up energy efficiency in buildings and to meet the requirements of this directive would, of course, lead to further increases in housing, houses and new buildings. So I want to ask you how you intend to respond to this situation, to this growth, and whether it is not really time to abolish the burden on buyers of unnecessary regulating taxes on the acquisition of real estate, which makes the acquisition of property more expensive by another 4 percent. The abolition of this ODS tax repeatedly proposes. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u98	Thank you. Before the Minister arrives at the microphone, Mrs Balcarová's apology, who has been apologizing to us for working reasons since 16.30. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I can only confirm your words that have fallen here, because we are actually very intensively monitoring this for the Ministry of Regional Development. It must be said here that since 2010, the offer prices of flats have increased by 45 per cent and in Prague by up to 67 per cent. And of course, we have to ask ourselves logically how the state here will respond to that and what we will be dealing with. However, it is also necessary to openly acknowledge the causes of what is actually happening to the flats market in Prague. Because we here not only need to improve the construction law - and here we can only agree that, of course, these things must be done. And I'm glad to say, before the House, that there has been a real settlement of the interdepartment to the law, when we will give the fiction of the consent of the binding opinion to the four hundred and sixty-six. That means this is actually going to the Chamber of Deputies. Effectiveness will be possible from September this year, which will, of course, make it very easier for investors to work, because all officials will have a maximum of 60 days to allow construction. But the big problem, of course, is that flats become a sought-after investment commodity, that is what we need to say. We also have problems with the fact that today's young people from the so-called millennium simply live in two apartments. That means they don't tend to move into one. That means, malometrage apartments are a huge problem. The huge problem of Prague 1 and the centre is Airbnb. Of course, we have to respond to laws and other regulations and these things. But what, of course, are also factors, is the price of the construction land and the European Union's energy directive, when it can happen that if the efficiency occurs in 2019, it can increase by up to 15 per cent. [[16.10 hours]] So these are all the things we have to deal with for us. We are trying to help with state subsidies as ownership housing for young people. Of course, I agree that this is still little money, but this property housing will help especially outside the Prague regions and outside the big cities, rather in the countryside. As far as rental housing is concerned, the Construction programme will be launched for rentals, which means available and social housing as early as March of this year. And of course, we have to do something very quickly with the construction law. We're preparing a full recodification of state law. Believe that we have stepped in very intensively with the Chamber of Commerce and it will be very revolutionary, but some changes need to be adopted immediately because we cannot wait this long. Therefore, for example, the fiction of the consent of the binding opinion will be effective from September, October at the most this year, which will, of course, help to speed up the housing market. But it also needs to be said here that any slightest modification to the construction law will not help if the individual cities, municipalities, especially Prague, do not remove the building closures and do something about their zoning plan. The construction law is short for that, and no permit will suffice, because investors will have nowhere to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u100	Thank you, too. I ask the Member for an additional question. He's interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u101	Yes. First of all, I would like to thank you for taking over the ODS proposal on the approval fiction, it was the ODS, which pushed it into the 416 law, enforces it and is in the system recorded by our proposal on this matter. So thank you for that. Second thing. I asked about the property acquisition tax, because one thing is that the state takes money from taxpayers and then gives it to some of the selected, while this tax regulates precisely the demand that is being regulated unnecessarily in this case. Because it most limits not the investors, but those young people who ask for property housing: So I want to ask if the time to abolish this tax has actually not ripened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u102	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u103	Thank you for the follow-up question. First of all, I would like us not to drag policy into the recodification of building law as far as possible, because here we will all really have to agree on the fundamental changes that are. Otherwise, of course, the material of the government was already in 2016, believe that even with the fiction of the consent of the binding opinion, but I am very glad that we will complement ourselves here in this way. We shouldn't trump each other. Let's work this out together, make it work. Real estate tax - big topic. We've already started discussing it with the Secretary of Finance. We are really talking about this because she even handles the model, how it might actually make it easier for those interested in housing as such. This is, of course, a very difficult situation for me, on the one hand, I very much understand and I will support it because it will facilitate access to the apartment. On the other hand, we are constantly debating where the source of the State Housing Development Fund money is. So understand that this is very difficult. If we all say it will go at the expense of the state budget, yes, but of course it would be appropriate to find the source of funding for the State Housing Development Fund so that we can have more money for the construction and housing itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u104	Thank you. Mr. Výborný on the closure of Richtrův's bud of Minister Plaga will now be intersecting. Mrs Hyťhová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I am asking you with a question and a request to explain why the National Institute for Further Education, which falls under you managed by the Ministry, decided on 31. 12. 2018 through director Helena Plitzová on the closure of the state-owned Richtr bud in Pec pod Sněžkou. According to the information available, the sheds are to be handed over to the State Representation Office in property matters, which will deal with their sale to the new owner. I wonder what real reasons have led to closure and whether new applicants for this facility are already known. Allegedly, the loss-making operation of this installation is to be the reason. If that is the case, I do not understand why this is happening right now, when the winter season is in full swing, when accommodation capacities are reserved for the whole season and paid for, and it is expected that since 2008, when the sheds have been newly renovated, this should be the best season and it is more than obvious that the winter season should end in a significant economic plus. Furthermore, according to the statement, Richtrův huts were in profit before they closed 830 thousand crowns and this is somewhat contrary to the Ministry's claim that they are, on the contrary, in the loss of more than 771 thousand crowns. Can you please explain this discretion between your ministry's claims and the operating equipment? And if the device was really so loss-making, why didn't the ministry officials intervene long before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u106	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u107	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, I must say that the National Institute for Further Education was forced, for economic reasons, to decide to close Richtro's recreation facility in October last year. This was not an immediate impulse in 2018, but capacity utilisation in 2016-2018 has seen an increasing trend, but was still below 50 percent of the total capacity. At the same time, the NIDV's financial contribution was also growing in order to continue to operate the facility. Moreover, according to Mrs Richtrův, at least there were disproportionate costs from the former management, and this was also due to poor personnel policy. Because the experienced staff left before the winter season. That means, yes, I've also noticed that reservations have been made for the winter season, but the question is whether the season would be provided on an operational basis. I have information that the installation has reported losses in other activities of a total amount of 780,000 up to the time of closure for 2018 and in the previous years, i.e. 2016 and 2017. Anyway, the information that was otherwise leads me to continue to deal with the situation, but I will use that time to disprove some of the things that appeared in the media, which means that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, or NIDV, is preparing this object for some commercial offer and its sale somewhere else. Of course, the only way to further exploit the property is to declare it permanently unnecessary and to initiate the steps leading to its handover to the Office of State representation in property matters, before that there is always an internal supply, and it is very likely that if we finally proceed to this step, as at this point, it seems to be the most probable option, so I already know from some resorts at least a preliminary interest in this property. I am simply pointing out that, of course, another argument was that Richtro's special purpose facility should serve mainly schools and educational facilities, so for example the 2018-2019 winter season was occupied by schools only 19 percent of the total number of confirmed reservations, i.e. not of the total capacity, but only 19 percent of those confirmed were used for schools. And once again, because of the non-compliance with those numbers, it's something I'm gonna have to explain in detail from the principal, and I'm gonna look at the numbers myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u108	Thank you. Is the MP interested? He's not interested. In that case, we will proceed to an interview by Mrs Hyťhová, who will interpelise on the financing of sport by Minister Plaga. Mrs. Golasowská will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u109	Dear Minister, last year I criticized the financing of sport, see late writing of grant titles, for example My Club 2018, when this program was written by officials on an illegal date and was announced and terminated in an unrealized term. Moreover, an excessive number of documents has been requested from representatives of sports clubs. I would like to ask you now about the three programmes that promote sport: Firstly, a programme supporting state representation. Unlike other very important programmes, at least a challenge has been launched to date. Not a crown has been paid to the associations providing representation of the state. So the unions don't have to prepare for sports, the unions take expensive loans in the belief that they will ever get money. Secondly, a program to support service centers has not even been launched yet. Workers who need to implement the sport organisation process, order, for example, sports training, deal with administration, economy, etc., do not still have a programme for their funding. Without this segment, the sport environment has no chance to order sports training and realize sports training or sports training billing. Thirdly, the programme for the maintenance and operation of sports facilities has not yet been launched even a challenge. Two years no support has been granted for the maintenance and operation of sports facilities, although the whole sports environment criticises this condition and nothing happens. I would like to ask for precise answers as will continue with subsidies to our sport, as I believe that sport and promotion of sport are very important to our Republic. Thank you so much in advance. I have one more question. How will it be with sports support if the House doesn't support Mr. Hnilička's National Sports Agency? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u110	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u111	Mr Vice-President, Madam. I'll take those parts, like you asked about them. Yes, I remember the interview on my club program last year, and I am happy to say that as far as my club program is concerned, we have accelerated work on it in such a way that this year's payout is accelerated by more than two months compared to the previous year. Last year this programme was supported by 4.5 thousand. clubs and they were paid about 960 miles. crowns, if I'm not mistaken. This year, by presenting the invitation to the autumn of 2018, we left better time than the Ministry left last year, and it is more known among the clubs, so nearly 6,000 registered. clubs. The amount that goes to the clubs is nearly 1.4 billion, if the applications are all right, of course. The first stage was published on 21 January 2019. These are 583 clubs, which have been consulted at this time by the Ministry's management, and will be distributed to them by the funds. Another part should be, and it is about 700 clubs, at the beginning of February. Our goal is to get the money actually at fourteen-day intervals, because it's the clubs that bring together the sports kids, get it as quickly as possible, and, as I say, keep up the foreplay that we managed through simplified administration -- that's another part of the question -- maybe, I'd say, make it a lot faster, because two months I think it's a big time. So from February, there will be payments to those clubs in the amount of hundreds of millions of crowns, always after the tranche of the individual ones. The 2020 objective is to further simplify administration and process acceleration. But I have to say, of course, it comes down to personnel capacity, because from the time the ministry handled applications only to the unions, we get to the time when there are 6,000. applications. But thank God for that, because it's one of the few instruments that targets the sport of children from the central level, but also from the community level. As for the other challenges, I can say again that the representation and winter sports that had the problem that you announced means that they had to take credit, so now, on 22 January, we also approved the representation support programme precisely because those seasons are in full swing and they need to get the money as soon as possible. So there's been an acceleration. Similarly, it will be for other programmes, which are for talented young people or for the organisation of the activities of individual unions. As far as maybe investments you haven't mentioned are concerned, there's also an acceleration. And they just have a connection to what you asked, that's maintenance and traffic. We're on the way back to the fact that there were 140 miles for maintenance and operation. To the owners of the infrastructure. Today in the program My club can be 50 percent of the resources, i.e. 1.4 billion. 700 miles. CZK, used for operation, but it works for the children, which then choose the infrastructure, respectively. The clubs where kids play sports, and the infrastructure they play sports on, then they can be rented out. The role of the state is to support reconstruction, investment repairs - and we have also strengthened there. There is an estimate for 2019 140 projects per 1.5 billion. This means, from the central level at the moment, money goes to reconstruction and investment in infrastructure and operation. As far as maintenance is concerned, I would personally expect local support, because if I take the central level, the state is not, in my opinion, the right person to distribute in equal access, because it does not know the need for maintenance in that location. I think that the main role, and that's where we've got our attention, is to promote youth sports in the individual clubs. And like I said, 700 miles. versus 140 miles. prior to operation and maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u112	Thank you, too. And the honourable Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u113	Well, thank you for the answers. I have one more follow-up question. The decision-making and payment of subsidies should be as transparent as possible. Is the Ministry preparing any measures and solutions to this particular situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u114	Thank you. I beg the Minister if he's interested. He's interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u115	Thank you for the follow-up question. I forgot to tell you what would have happened if a sports agency hadn't been set up. It has to do with what you just asked, because the Ministry must continue to accelerate the processes until the agency is established. And it has to do with one thing that is inherently related to transparency, and that is the gradual launch of the sports registry. This is the way to greater transparency. As far as investment is concerned, we have progressed there that applications are no longer submitted in purely paper form, but there is an information system within which there is an electronic trace for submitting grant applications for investment. So I think we've done a big piece, or a step forward since 2017, since the mythical case, and we definitely need to continue to do this into the formation of a sports agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u116	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mrs Golasowská, who will interpel Mr Brabec on the air in the Moravian-Silesian region. Mr Mihola will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u117	Thank you for the floor. Have a lovely afternoon, everyone. Dear Minister, in the Moravian-Silesian region, the country's worst atmosphere in the long term and one of the worst in Europe. Smog is mainly worried about the region in autumn and winter. Industry, transport, domestic heating, as well as harmful materials from neighboring Poland contribute to the polluted air. In recent days, the emission limit, which is 50 micrograms per cubic metre for the average 24-hour concentration of flying dust, was exceeded on Sunday 20 January this year at all measuring stations, on most of them more than threefold, in Ostrava, Karvinsk, Frýdecko-Místek and in Třinecek. Several times over the limit is not a unique matter, but often over the course of the year repeated. And I ask you, Minister, whether you are aware of the seriousness of the situation where more than a million people live in a region where local limits are repeatedly exceeded, and the amount of dust not only restricts the movement of outsiders, but also very negatively affects their health, often as a result of serious illness and premature death. So if you are aware of this situation, I have a question of what specific measures and what time horizon you are preparing or are already ready to improve the environment in this region. And my next question points to the possibility of possible compensation for this for the health of the population threatening the situation, e.g. in the form of various health or financial benefits for residents who are forced to live in this region. I am interested not only in this, which I live in the Moravian-Silesian region, but also in more than a million inhabitants. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u118	Thank you, too. And I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Of course I realize that. By the way - and now I don't want to downplay it, but the Ministry of the Environment is based at a crossroads in Prague, which is one of the most polluted places in the Czech Republic, so every time someone tells me "we're third or fourth in that ranking," someone always says "Mr. Minister, you can't imagine it," I tell him "I can imagine it," even though I understand - and that's important, but I say it again, I don't want to downplay it - that I don't live there all day, I'm not there all weekend and my kids aren't mainly there. [[with laughter]] And that is what is, of course, crucial. The time space I have is too short to say first of all what we've done there, and second of all, what we have to do, what we still want to do. I'm going to make the most of it here. I'm going to use the two deadlines that are. All of us, therefore, need not be convinced, we know that this region is one of the most polluted or most polluted within the Czech Republic. That is also why our programmes, such as boiler subsidies, are extremely directed there, which we all know. The program is successful. So far, more than 12,000 have been approved in the Moravian-Silesian region alone. applications, others will be approved. And I dare say that when the ban on the operation of those local boilers of the first and second emission classes starts in 2022, to which, of course, our programmes are now heading, including the programme to support low-income population groups, which we want to report to the Moravian-Silesian Region in February of this year, there will be an even greater improvement in air quality. [[16.30 hours]] But now I'm gonna say something that may be provocative, but believe me, it's true. I would venture to say that even if we stopped driving around, drowning, lighting, other than from renewable sources, of course they stopped using pots, local pots, so, with some unfavourable flow, adverse weather conditions, which unfortunately occur in winter in connection with pressure levels - the worst was in 2017 from recent years, the massive pressure level meant several smog situations and the announcement of regulation, the last year was better - so that in some areas, and for that there are even scientific studies, the only cross-border influence from Poland would mean the announcement of a smog situation in some parts of the Moravian-Silesian region. It just means there's got to be a revolutionary thing going on. And now, my dear colleague, I wonder if the people who live there, and that is not just about this region, are willing to stop driving at that moment, because the cities already have the opportunity, from the Ministry of the Environment, to announce low-emission zones and to announce, for example, the regulation of road transport. No city in the Czech Republic, no community has taken it. The Moravian-Silesian Region has a number of interesting measures in terms of voluntary agreements that go beyond existing legislation. This means that we will continue with the boiler subsidies. We have prepared for the Moravian-Silesian region except for 1.4 billion. The crowns that have already arrived, another half a billion crowns, so a total of 1.9 billion. Crowns. We have the ambition to replace the largest percentage of the most polluting local boilers by 2022, and we have the low-income program. There were many billions to dust, ecology of large resources, Arcelor, Třinec and others. Today we are talking about measures that deal with hundreds of tons of them. Of course, we will continue these activities. There's a question of transport, but let's face it, if there's not a dramatic leap in electromobility and we're still going to ride fossil fuels, even if new cars can have the latest plaques, the latest emission stamps, yet it's the pollution that happens there. So this is about the possibility of low-emission zones and regulations, but these are very tough policy measures to which we need to have the courage. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'll set it up, if you don't mind, in the second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u120	It depends on whether the Member will ask you an additional question. I see you do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u121	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I would still ask if you, as the Ministry of the Czech Republic, are entering some negotiations with Poland, because after all, dust does not know the border and it just goes there. Of course, I understand that we're giving hundreds of millions, if not billions to dust off. I doubt that in the 21st century, people will somehow limit their driving. However, it is a matter for the region, because there is also a heavy industry. So I'd like to add that to Poland. Then you haven't answered my question if the D.O.D. is thinking about any benefits for the residents because they live there. The region is evacuating anyway, it's not linked to a natural decline, it means birth rate and mortality, but it's also because these people are moving. I have this practical experience that people are moving away because they don't want to be there because of the environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u122	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u123	I wouldn't want to be too pathetic, but believe me, I really do have a significant part of the activities that we have for air protection and we're talking about them, and I'm heading logically into the Moravian-Silesian region, because that's where the biggest threat is. There's a clear answer to your question. I'm sure you've heard of her, too. I am so glad that Poland admitted that it was inspired by our boiler subsidies program. I was there recently in Katowice at a meeting of the climate conference. I spoke with the ministers there, I spoke with the Polish Prime Minister there. They said - after the Czech model we are starting a large project of boiler subsidies in Poland, in which Polák want to invest in the equivalent of 620 billion. CZK in the next ten years. They want to replace up to 3 million local boilers. And we're pushing Poland, and I've also asked the Minister of the Environment to start with a program they have within ten years, if possible, in the border area with us as some compensation for inspiring them first and they've admitted that they're learning and wanting to get things started according to our model, but of course, bigger, because they have up to 10 million local pots. That, of course, is a huge number. So there is a very intense meeting going on with Poland, the Polish Minister will come back to Czech Republic either in February or March and we will talk about the boiler subsidies and the possibility of Poland wanting to start the program so that it will help us the most. The compensation will continue in case of the possibility of healing stays, which we will continue to finance. I think the next challenge will be this summer, I think it'll be 40-50 miles. CZK, and it will be a healing stay again for schools and possibilities of trips to unpolluted sites. It's a huge priority. I firmly believe in pot subsidies and exchange of those, say, 40,000 boilers in the Moravian-Silesian region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u124	Thank you. I now ask Mr Mihola, who will interpelise on the impact of the reform of funding in primary and kindergarten schools. Mrs Kovářová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u125	Thank you. Mr President, Ministers, colleagues, on the impact of the reform of regional education funding, I rely mainly on communication with the South Moravian region, but with the region of Vysočina. The parameters of the new funding reform put the merged primary and kindergarten schools at a disadvantage for the benefit of separate primary schools and kindergartens. They mostly differ in favour of the second appointed group in the financing of operational staff and educators in kindergartens. There is no disadvantage in the parameters of primary school teaching staff. I will show this disadvantage in the following example. First, the municipality of A, where the merged primary school and kindergarten are, second, the municipality of B, where the primary school and kindergarten remained separate. The municipality of A with a merged primary and kindergarten has in two-class kindergarten thanks to the exception of 56 children and the duration of operation of 9.5 hours. The municipality of B with a separate kindergarten has 26 children in a two-class kindergarten and 9,5 hours in operation. Four full-time teachers work in both municipalities. PHmax for both kindergartens is 115 hours a week, the number of children is not taken into account. This number is fully sufficient for the payment of teachers in village B, 113 hours, the principal has 20 hours, plus teachers three times 31 hours. On the contrary, in the village And this number isn't enough, 118 hours in total, including the head teacher 25 hours plus the teacher three times 31 hours. The kindergarten must therefore reduce the hours of work for teachers or extend the period of operation to 10 hours. In both cases, conditions will deteriorate not only for teachers but also for children, or there will be restrictions, overlaps, and one teacher will be on 28 children more alone for a longer period of time, making care for children worse. [[Time warning]] I'm done. Similarly unfair will be the financing of operating workers. I therefore ask for an opinion, respectively. dealing with this difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u126	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u127	Mr President, honourable Member, I have listened very carefully, but I am unable to resolve this task in such a short time. No, no, I'm not gonna downplay it. In general, if in one legal entity, and so I understood the introduction of the interpelation, the parent and elementary school is merged, then on PHmax, i.e. on the need for pedagogical work, it counts separately for each component and must also be used separately. It is therefore irrelevant whether they are related or separate entities. In your case, when you put an exception school into that example, I'll admit that I can imagine that there's a difference. That means, I'm offering to look into this particular case, if there's a technical error in this area, so be it. [[16.40 hours]] The second thing you were suggesting is that I understand that the essence of PHmax is coverage, of course the maximum number of hours of teaching work. The fact that then there is a support for non-teaching workers as part of the calculation is quite logical. But I'd rather stop at whether the purpose behavior on the part of someone that I thought was better to split back, so it seems a little bit like the purpose behavior on the part of the founder. But maybe I just misunderstood.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u128	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. I dare say that we have oral and written interpelations, some may be suitable elsewhere. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u129	I wanted to come up with a specific example, so I'm sorry that I had to say it so quickly in that short time, because, as you know, these general examples can sometimes seem like they weren't being realized at all or really weren't. But I'm going to hand over a table to the minister here, a basis that it's working or it's supported by the presentation of the Ministry of Education. And I'll just add, it leads to exactly what the Minister suggested, that the response from those regions is actually such that it is better to split up again as if by all accounts. And I will complement the reform of regional education funding. I know it's a very difficult thing. And the minister is actually the heir, he inherited it from his predecessors, here this difficult, complex reform. And it is echoing more and more, and I have here specifically from the Union of School Associations of the Czech Republic that there is actually missing information. When I sum it up really into one sentence, there's no information, and the reform seems very unprepared. [[Time warning]] So I'm asking if there's going to be another delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u130	Please, is the Minister interested in a follow-up answer?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u131	Yes, thank you. Supplementary answer to the supplementary question. I have noted this, of course, regarding communication, changes in funding since January 2020, so I have to say that, as we promised in the autumn, as well as for a number of months, the methodology for calculating PHmax has been available on the MŠMT website. In 2018, the Ministry of Education organised a series of seminars for school directors, regional authorities, municipal authorities, municipalities with extended scope and now at the turn of January and February - and this will increase significantly the security in the field, which, I understand, is now not completely maximum, because it is a change, of course, of the system, or of the calculation - so at the turn of January and February we can publish every kindergarten, primary school in the data collection environment parameters of new funding. That means the directors are going to get to the PHmax calculation, the jobs they have based on the data we collected in the fall. This means the first step in which directors will have to take an idea of what options they have for any division of teaching hours, or, if their PHmax exceeded the PH maximum of that system, they will have enough time to analyze their reported data. If, on the contrary, there was no need for a false eviction. This means that this is an important step that we are preparing for February. In April and June 2019, there will be another series of seminars where the Ministry's staff will be on the ground, for school directors just on the model of non-teaching staff and at the same time analyses of the school's PHmax and PHmax will be presented. At the same time, for 2019 we have prepared start-up development programmes, where there is more than a billion, and they are prepared and will be running as promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u132	I also thank and please Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel on the content of education in schools again, Minister Plaga. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u133	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the reform of education and content, or the forms of teaching, is often a repeated topic that is being dealt with in every government. In December, the conclusions of the Czech School Inspectorate were published, which point to too extensive framework education programmes, even marked as oversized. The very large content of the material of the study and the repetition of the same substance during the study lead only to bifling and memorizing. On the contrary, there is no room for interactive teaching, self-activity of pupils or other modern forms of teaching. Surely, Minister, we agree that the current model is unsatisfactory and must be changed. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Minister, what steps are you planning to revise and update the framework education programmes and in what time frame and whether your ministry will respond to the findings of the Czech School Inspectorate. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u134	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u135	Mr President, Madame Members, the conclusions of the annual report of the Czech School Inspectorate are one of the essential elements for the ongoing revision of the framework education programmes for basic and secondary education. I must say that this has merely supported the current position of the Ministry, where I really consider the change or revision of the framework education programmes essential. But I think it is essential that we open the process that has been going on here in the past more to the professional public, because when reviewing the framework education programmes, it is necessary to realise that we are defining the framework for education for some further period. The final establishment of the framework education programmes and the curricular reform is 15 years ago. Thus, although some timetables have been set from the ministry's point of view in the previous period or periods, as I said in the interpelation the very first time, it is important for me to be okay and, calmly, later than it is a rashly met term without public access, without any broader debate on the objectives of education. That is why I have also followed up on certain outputs of the emerging 2030 strategy, and certainly, and this is already declared by the Ministry at the moment, it is necessary for it to occur - I have started using the term airing the framework education programmes for this to clearly determine what core learning is. Because it is nonsense that there should be a course within educational programmes, which according to the findings of the Czech School Inspectorate will not be able to learn. Furthermore, it is necessary to create a space for practice. And, of course, if you look at today's form of educational programs and then school educational programs and realizations in those schools that can handle it, that teaching can be very interesting. I think it is still necessary, in the context of the framework education programmes, to provide schools that are not as progressive as well as methodological support in order to know what other methods they can teach or can teach the centre of gravity, the core of the issue, continue to teach. That means I won't say the term, I'll rather be grilled for not being there yet, but I want it to be fine and well done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u136	Thank you. The honourable Member is not interested in an additional question, so please Mrs Maříková, who will interpel in relation to the contamination of the soil of pesticides by Minister Toman. Mr Jelínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. pan Minister, the research of Masaryk University in Brno has produced alarming results on the amount of pesticides in the soil. According to the Centre for Research on Toxic Substances in the Environment, which examined arable land in 75 places in the Czech Republic, they recorded high concentrations of pesticides. 80 per cent of the soil contains at least one pesticide at an excess concentration, in 36 per cent of the soil there were three or more pesticides at an excess concentration. The alarming thing is that pesticides have been banned in the soil for more than ten years. We could discuss the negative effects of pesticides on human health and soil quality here. The limits for pesticides in soil from 1994 were abolished and there is no mention in the new decree of 2016 of unchlorinated individual or sumar pesticides. So now there can be unlimited amounts of them in the soil. In one year less than 5,000 tons of pesticides are sprayed in the Czech Republic. I wonder if you are familiar with this research and what measures your ministry will take to reduce the consumption of pesticides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u138	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u139	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the impact of pesticides on the environment, as well as everywhere in the EU, is subject to every plant protection product before its approval, it is called a two-stage approval, a very strict assessment of the possible impact on human health and the environment. This is done both by the State Institute of Health and then by the Central Audit and Testing Institute of Agriculture. [[16.50 hours]] The protection of agricultural crops cannot be carried out in the present, not only in Czech, agriculture without the use of plant protection products. In view of the regular pressure of disease agents and the population of animal pests and weeds, the economically sustainable yield of agricultural crops cannot be achieved without the use of plant protection products. Measures for reducing pesticides are addressed in the National Plan of Action for the Safe Use of Pesticides in the Czech Republic by 2022. This national plan was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and approved by the Government of the Czech Republic in June last year. This plan contains specific objectives and measures that are gradually being implemented and controlled, and it should be noted that the repeated occurrence of some metabolites according to the result of monitoring of the ČHMÚ suggests that it is most likely an old burden from the previously authorised use of plant protection products with these active substances. I must stress that, of course, we are still prepared, just as we have been doing for the last few years, to look for further ways to further reduce the use of plant protection products. I would just like to remind myself that in the last six years, the use of plant protection products in the Czech Republic has been reduced by 8 percent. This has been achieved thanks to the reduction in the amount of conventional applications, the increase in organic farming areas that we support, as well as the support of so-called. integrated plant production. This has a positive impact on reducing the use of plant protection products as well as on good practices in crop cultivation. I must also say that the Ministry of Agriculture as one of the first in the countries of the European Union has set restrictions on the use of the active substance glyphosate, starting with 1. 1st of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u140	Thank you, too. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I asked if you were familiar with the research, you didn't answer me at all, so I suppose not, so I'll leave it here for you to read. And the pesticides that I mentioned were banned for more than ten years, namely atrazine, which has been banned for ten years, and 13 years banned for simazine, so in this case it's probably not remains from earlier times, because he's probably getting into the soil with the herbicide terbutilazine. And I wonder how you're gonna stop those pesticides that are forbidden from getting into the soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u142	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u143	Thank you. So, first of all, thank you for the information we have, of course, but thank you. However, how do we avoid it when something is forbidden? Careful control, there is no alternative. It's just black usage, and there's no other way but to control the use of pesticides and increase control, which of course we're doing. There's no other way. If it's forbidden, all we can do is check whether they're used or not. And, of course, I will discuss this with the UKZÚZ and with other organizations, but I believe that this will be limited. And the second question was what? You had one more. I'm sorry. [[The MP wants to clear up off the mic.]] Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u144	I thank Mr Jelínek, Mr Jelínek, who will interpel in the case of the electronic highway stamp of Minister Ťok.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u145	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Dear Minister, you announced on your Twitter last September that an electronic highway stamp will be introduced from 2021 onwards. I understand that during the reconstruction of the road and highway networks, not all cards are in the hands of the Ministry, and therefore it is not always possible to carry out the construction or reconstruction of the road and highway networks in the terms corresponding to today. However, the introduction of electronic motorway signs is a diametrically different issue from the construction activity and I am really surprised that we have been late several years after Slovakia, and Austria has introduced electronic motorway signs this year, while we will not implement this relatively simple matter until two years later. Is it really necessary for such a long time to be realized, or is it just the timing of the elections? That's why I have two questions. Is it possible to implement a system of motorway stamps from 2020? And second, can the Chamber of Deputies contribute to speeding up the introduction of the motorway stamp system? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u146	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister is absent and will answer your question in writing within 30 days. I beg Mr Janda, who will interpelise on participation in the ideological events of KSČM Minister Staněk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u147	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, before Last Christmas you participated in the Christmas party KSČM, at which communist MP Miroslav Grebeníček presented his book The Sign of the Cross. In your opinion, this book brings a new view of the church restitution, and you even made a toast to the success of this book. Mr Grebeníček's book, among others. states that the church is becoming part of a large-scale ownership coup, and with its vocabulary and style, it does not join the ideological materials of the previous regime of the roughest grain. Dear Minister, do you think it is standard for the Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic to pose on ideological seances of the Communist Party whose outputs are contrary to the political development of the Czech Republic? And do you intend to take part in such ideological actions in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u148	Thank you, too. The minister apologized to your questions in writing within 30 days before the start of the intercession block. I beg Mrs Maříková, who will interpel in the matter of the mentally devastated health care of Minister Vojtěch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, you were a guest at a recent medical chamber convention where the atmosphere was not the best. The Chamber has long complained about the project of Ukraine, which imports foreign doctors into the Czech Republic without professional exams, that health care is getting worse quietly, we have staff devastated hospitals, doctors getting older, new ones running abroad, we can't pay them and they're being replaced by cheap labor. There are a number of complaints. The Chamber has long criticized the project of Ukraine. I, too, have intersected you in this regard. Does your ministry have any idea how many foreign doctors work in the Czech Republic without aprobation exams? I'd like the exact numbers if you have them. Does the Ministry check whether these doctors actually work under professional supervision or is it just a formality for the law, and most of these doctors work alone because of personal inadequacy? If so, how does such a check take place, in which health establishments has it been carried out? Have any errors been identified in this context? If yes, where and what penalty awaited the medical facility, or where. Guarantor? How is a medical facility selected for which a check will take place? And is such a check reported in advance, or is it random? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u150	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. honourable Member, honourable Members. Madam, to your interpellation. So, the Czech Medical Chamber, I think they have been talking like this for the last twenty years, maybe fifteen, when they still point to problems, which, of course, is legitimate, but unfortunately does not bring any more solutions. But I wouldn't want to discuss that here. The truth is, of course, doctors from abroad are here. They're not just doctors from third countries. It should be said that doctors from European Union countries also come here, and more and more, where we also recognise professional qualifications or specialized qualifications for the exercise of a medical profession. In total, in 2018, it was 166 doctors who are not from third countries, but who received their vocational education in another Member State of the European Union, and on the basis of European legislation, we recognise them as qualified. He doesn't have to do the probation exam. I don't think it's a completely insignificant number. So it seems that the Czech Republic is not only the country from which doctors would leave, but apparently also doctors from other European countries are coming here. So maybe it's not all that tragic, although of course I recognize that part of Czech doctors are going abroad. The Ministry of Health receives a total of 2,000 applications each year for a probation exam. These are the doctors from third countries, not only Ukrajinec, but doctors outside the European Union. Of course, the other half are nurses, because they are not just doctors, they are nurses. [[17,00 hours]] If we are talking about the Ukraine project, there is the Ministry of Health under Act No. 95/2004 Coll. The Association of Regions of the Czech Republic issued for the period from 1. 7. 2017 to 19. 12. 2018 total 604 doctors to foreigners with professional education obtained in the so-called third countries nostrified in the Czech Republic performance of professional practice on the territory of the Czech Republic without the composition of aprobation exam. That's the thing that's being discussed. It should be said that these doctors, however, have nostrified diplomas that nostrigate universities for them, by the Ministry of Education, so this is a predisposition for them to practice at all. And they perform it under the professional guidance of a Czech doctor with specialized competence, that is to say, a certified doctor, when the name of the Czech doctor must be clear, which is reported by the provider, with whom this doctor from third countries performs the practice. So, of course, he's responsible for him. And these doctors are gradually seeking the composition of an aprobation exam and the permanent recognition of professional qualifications to perform a medical profession in the Czech Republic. It is true that individual regional authorities are currently carrying out checks primarily on health service providers, so whether the law is respected, whether personnel security is respected in the provision of health services. That's based on the Health Services Act. The Ministry of Health certainly doesn't have the staff to carry out any area checks, nor is it entirely our competence for any systematic implementation of these controls. The regional authorities are responsible for this by law, although of course we are also carrying out control activities. In 2018, we carried out a check at a hospital in Jihlava based on a complaint. I must say that these checks are, of course, particularly on the basis of specific incentives. We also carried out a check at the regional hospital in Kolín, where a check was carried out on the course of specialization education and on the inspection of foreigners working in this hospital. In one case, a complaint has been submitted to the Regional Authority of the Olomouc Region to carry out a check on the health service provider. So we're going to find fault, and then we're going to hand this over to the county office that should handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u152	Thank you, too. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, you have not answered me how many doctors, one of which countries, work in the Czech Republic without the aprobation exams. And you mentioned yourself that the Department of Health doesn't have the staff to carry out those checks. Wouldn't it be appropriate to increase the competence of the medical chamber to carry out those checks?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u154	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u155	Thank you. I've said that since 1. 7. 2017 to 19. 12. 2018 A total of 604 doctors of foreigners with professional education from third countries thus obtained this possibility of working practice without the composition of a probation exam, i.e. those who are preparing. Of course, we don't have all the detailed statistics on how these doctors are progressing. Of course, a part of them will perform an aprobation exam, a part of them may go completely out of health care. We don't know that. They don't even report this to us. So I can say some general number here, how many doctors have been given this authorization. As far as the control is concerned, as I say, we have the regional authorities here by law today that are responsible. I am not convinced that this is the role of the Czech Medical Chamber. She is, of course, primarily to supervise whether Czech doctors carry out their work properly, lege artis, whether they observe certain ethics and the like. But as far as compliance with the Health Services Act is concerned, there are currently regional authorities and health insurance companies responsible. We have already had negotiations in this regard with health insurance companies, which actually have a contract with providers. And those providers must also comply with personnel regulations, personnel security. I'm sure we'll want the health insurance companies to check that, too, and we'll agree with them on that. So I think there's a whole series of audit institutions. I'm sure we'll tighten up the controls. But I don't think it's the Czech Medical Chamber that's supposed to have this in the description of its activities. By the way, we've now made changes in the probation exams when we said, and the House has actually approved it, that there will be a maximum of four attempts at the probation exams. That means four times and enough, then the doctors have to get out of Czech health care. So I think we've kind of tightened up the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u156	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Please Mr Jurečka, who will interpelise on increased road mortality in 2018 by Minister Ťok. Mr Bartoň will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u157	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would like to interpel you on the subject of a rather significant increase in accidents on Czech roads and the associated significant increase in the number of persons killed. Because when we look at the report of the Police of the Czech Republic, there was a relatively significant increase in persons killed in 2018. It was 46 more people in men. It was 420 in 2017, 46 in 2018. It was 7 more in women. Unfortunately, it was also in children when 19 children were killed in 2017 and 10 more in 2018. So I want to ask because I did not register any increased emphasis on the activities of the Ministry of Transport, any increased activity from your side, which would address this issue of security, prevention, education, and also the emphasis on issues relating to transport infrastructure, which would try to focus more on this subject. What concrete steps are you going to take in this area? I've noticed that you want to propose an amendment to the law and change the point system. I am not quite sure that the fundamental problem is in the point system and its setting, although we can certainly discuss it and look for even more optimal settings. But if we find out, and I see in practice that many traffic violations, when we're talking about speed violations, aren't actually going to show up with these drivers by writing down and adding points to the driver's card, there's something fundamentally wrong. So I would like to ask you to take a closer look at this issue, possibly to submit statistical data and, above all, to answer how specifically you would like to reduce the accident rate on Czech roads.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u158	The Minister is excused and will reply in writing within 30 days. Please, Mr Bartona, who will interpel in the matter of water tourism to Minister Toman. Mrs Pekarová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u159	Dear Minister, since the water catchment area belongs to your resort, let me ask you a question about the navigability of water tourism lakes. Last year, over 600,000 people went out on our rivers. On the water courses used there are several dozen lakes that are not navigable and have to be transmitted. Transferring is often very complicated, and then some irresponsible individuals also gather dangerous jeezes, which, unfortunately, sometimes ends tragically. Will you soon do something for the navigability of our rivers in the field of water tourism? Please note that for a relatively low investment, you can not only save lives, but also make domestic water tourism more attractive, which is a clear benefit to our economy compared to foreign holidays. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u160	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u161	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, weirs like water works are primarily performed by water management functions in the territory, which means affecting drain conditions. That's their primary function. Of course, I agree with you that the public, in particular, is widely used for water tourism. The navigability of individual rivers generally depends on the hydrological conditions and possibilities of improving flow through water tanks. [[17.10 hours]] In the last five years due to the dry period, the conditions for water tourism have not been ideal in our country and I just want to stress here that in the last three years in some water catchment areas a collision deficit of up to 600 mm of precipitation has been recorded. It is also necessary to realise that the Czech Republic's lakes do not belong to the property only of the state undertaking of the river basin, the lakes can be in the property of both the state and the property of private persons. The ponds that are owned by the state are operated according to proper regulations, however, plans are being prepared for their reconstruction at the moment, where navigability should also be allowed where possible. Of course, the reconstruction of unbridled lakes, which are owned by private individuals, depends on their financial possibilities and is not in the power of the state to reconstruct these unblasted lakes in any way to extricate themselves from private individuals. By contrast, river basin undertakings focus, among other things, on the safety of existing lakes. We are working very actively with the Czech Canoe Association, with the Water School of Rescue and just the jews that have been identified as dangerous by these subjects, not only are they marked with warning signs, not only are they equipped with ropes and circles, but we are implementing other technical measures that help reduce their hazards. We are, of course, working closely in these activities, as I said, with the watermen, but we are also working with the Fire Rescue Corps. This means, until we can ensure their navigability where possible, we equip the jews with various steps, drapes in shore fortifications, rescue stands, etc. I can say that for the last exact statistics published in 2017, there was no fatal accident on the lakes and even the rescue corps did not have to intervene there, but we will continue the work and I believe we will succeed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u162	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? He doesn't. Please, Mrs Pekarová, who will interpel in the matter of the periodicals of national minorities, Minister Staněk. Mr. Michálek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u163	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister, I am being approached by representatives of national minorities on the subsidy of periodicals for national minorities. This subsidy amounted to 30 million even ten years ago. Crowns. Then, at the time of the economic crisis, the amount fell significantly, then fluctuated and in the last five years stagnates to an amount of less than 21 miles. Crowns. The objective of support from the state budget is to create conditions for the dissemination and reception of information in the languages of national minorities. The right of national minorities to disseminate and receive information in their native language is enshrined in Section 13 of the Act on the Rights of Members of National Minorities. To this end, the State grants state budget subsidies, which is governed by paragraph 2 of that paragraph. Without denying this right to national minorities by stagnating, I believe that the Czech economy now that it is in good shape and the number of members of national minorities in the Czech Republic is growing would be justified to increase the subsidy again. In a situation where the cost of publishing the periodic press is increasing, the stagnant subsidy of minority printing is being given to ever greater existential problems. Dear Minister, I would like to draw your attention to this and ask for your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u164	Thank you, too. The Minister is excused and will answer your question in writing within 30 days. I beg Mr Michálek, who will interpel in the matter of making public profiles available to judges and prosecutors of Minister Kněžínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u165	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this interpellation will be in a positive spirit. After all, I've already been labeled bullying the Prime Minister that he hasn't come to interpelation seven times in a row, so I'd like him to see that if the government is doing something right, we can even commend it. I wanted to address the issue of transparency in justice, which I consider very important, because transparency is one of the things that public confidence is built on. In particular, this matter is referred to as the public profiles of judges and prosecutors. We can imagine this very simply, as the Constitutional Court has it today or the Supreme Administrative Court on the web. There's a picture of the judge, some basic information about the judge. The Minister informed me in his letter of 4 January 2019, and I quote that in the framework of the eJustice 2020 project, the Ministry deployed a register of judicial examiners into the testing environment during December 2018 through which it would be on the web justice.cz public profiles of judges and prosecutors should be made available in the future. I wanted to ask you very simply how this project is doing, which I consider to be very godly, how it is being implemented, or what plan is there, what date this project should be completed. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u166	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u167	Thank you. Indeed, we are now finalizing the work on the system of the register of judges and prosecutors, which we are working on as a ReJČ and which, of course, should serve for the needs of a number of other systems that we want to introduce in future within the framework of the judiciary. One of the functions that the system is supposed to have is to be the possibility of publishing profiles about judges, which the judges themselves could edit and thus give up-to-date information about themselves, about their publishing activities, for example, so that the information is publicly available. We are currently in the testing phase. So far, it seems that the system could be functional, that it would meet the expectations that we put in it. The data migration has now taken place, we are now verifying whether the migration has been done correctly, or we will add new judges who have been named in the meantime, it is basically a technique, and then another final testing of the application will be carried out. If it works out, which I hope it will, then the possible sharp deployment, including the fact that the data would be written into the public part of the website, the relevant ones about judges, could take place within a few weeks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u168	Thank you. Please, is the Member interested in an additional question? He mít. prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u169	It's not a complete follow-up question, rather a thank you that the Minister stayed here for the interpelations and that he answered the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u170	Thank you, too. I don't think the Minister has a need to respond. Please, Mrs Golasowská, who will interpel in the matter of drawing on Mr Toman's subsidies. Mrs Richterová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u171	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the land has always been and is a fortune. This is also the case at present when less than 2% of employees work in agriculture. 65 per cent of agricultural land in the Czech Republic is managed by 7 per cent of agricultural holdings and 30% of European subsidies to agriculture, to which we add additional billions from the state budget. Due to the payment of area subsidies, most of these enterprises also end up with subsidies, and their care for land, water and landscape is often devastating. In doing so, poor care allows setting the conditions for drawing subsidies, when these conditions are set by our government on the basis of expert opinions. I believe that these days experts are preparing their opinions for the next seven years, i.e. 2020 - 2027. I would therefore like to ask you to make public how expert comments have been made on how to set out how to draw subsidies provided on the Water for everyone's website, and also to ask whether you are counting on these comments to be incorporated into the plan and then available to the public as they have been handled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u172	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u173	Hello again. Mr President, honourable Members, when it comes to the challenge of Water for everyone, the Ministry is careful with all these points. We have already partially or fully implemented most of the requirements at this point, which means we are already supporting the use of compost, the cultivation of intermediate crops, undersowing etc. Support for the Rural Development Programme, i.e. agri-environment-climate measures or organic farming, contributes to the requirement to reduce the quantities of pesticides used, and these are actually complex ways of managing minimum inputs. In order to reduce the area of agricultural parcels required, it should be noted that the Ministry has already introduced a ban on cultivation of crop monoculture on an area of more than 30 hectares in the legislation last year. This limitation will start to apply from next year to all potentially endangered land. As regards the promotion of agroforestry systems, the work is currently being done on the development of the common agricultural policy after 2020. We are communicating with all stakeholders and will be part of the new common agricultural policy. As far as the support for small watercourses is concerned, I would just like to remind myself of national programmes for the reconstruction, debauchery and construction of ponds and water reservoirs and for the repairs of dams. The Ministry helped the municipalities to build or renovate more than 400 ponds and the support is prepared by 2020 and I assume that it will continue after 2020. And only on this support will the municipalities receive more than one billion crowns. In addition to this challenge, Water for everyone, in terms of water quality protection, soil and landscape, we are working on adjusting the land treatment methodology to prevent erosion of both wind and water. We initiated negotiations with the Ministry of Finance on taxation procedures called. The other surfaces, these are the ties, the trenches and the other things we do. As far as soil devastation is concerned, I don't know if I would call it that, but we certainly need to take better care of this land, because it's actually an inheritance that we're going to pass on to future generations. I can assure you that as far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, we are taking every precaution, we are communicating with experts and all the measures that will be, will be on the Ministry's website and will be included in individual regulations as a condition for drawing subsidies for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u174	Thank you, too. The honourable Member is not interested in the supplementary question, so we will move on to the next interview. Mrs Richterová will interpel on exclusion from the employment records and the long-term effects of Minister Maláčová, which I welcome among us. Mr Munzar will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u175	Hello, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Registration at the employment office is a very important matter for many people, because it means health insurance for them. And the workers of the employment offices usually get to know quite quickly who really is unhappy that he has lost his job, who is trying to get a job and who belongs in a different category after all. Of course, they have such people too. But what do I want to talk about? That it is very demotivating when the work offices are not coordinated by the individual sections. I am talking, in particular, about the fact that there are a number of people employed on European projects, such as looking for employment, employment often with subsidies for people with disabilities. And these people are often demotivated by the fact that, unfortunately, it is also not quite rare, such long-term employees merely formalise the applicant's employment records. Let me give you an example, a case report. When a lady with a mental disability goes to some minor non-cooling job, to the brigade, and has a problem that she will come confirmation of the amount of earnings late, until the 5th day of the month, so it is quite a reason to exclude from the register of the employment office. And it's an example of an individual error that happens often. I get this kind of uncoordinated between the brokers, the ones on the projects, often, so I want to ask if you'll be careful in any way not to frustrate each other, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u176	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u177	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will divide my answer into two parts. I will first comment on the removal of job applicants from the register kept by the Labour Office. This is done in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Employment Act and always for the reasons laid down in this Act. The Office of Labour of the Czech Republic takes into account the so-called "jobeekers" in the removal of job applicants from the register of job applicants. serious reasons which may have had an impact on any failure to fulfil the obligation of the applicant. These serious reasons include, in particular, health reasons which prevent job seekers from fulfilling their obligation to cooperate in the mediation of employment. In such a case, the applicant shall not be removed from the employment office's register, but it is clear that such serious reasons must be demonstrated by the applicant, for example, by a doctor's certificate. As far as specific examples are concerned, which should have been contrary to the law, we do not know about these cases. If the Member, through Mr President, knows about these cases, I am asking for that information. Let's deal with this immediately. And as far as the second part of the question is concerned, of course, we have a whole range of European projects, which will be running in the coming months or at the latest next year. I'm also interested in the particular example of the non-coordination, we can sit on it, I'd love to hear it. However, I must say that we are, of course, trying to make those projects from European funds that are very helpful in making the work and output more efficient, that they always fit in with the scheme and are linked activities. But again, I'm ready to sit down on these specific cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u178	Thank you. The Member will be interested in an additional question. There you go. I would like to point out that Members of the Government and Members of the Chamber of Deputies need not be addressed by me. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u179	Thank you so much for your answer. In fact, it is a general issue that one section of the employment office is actually forced to exclude people from the register simply in order to improve unemployment statistics. And another section, especially people on projects, are really motivated to work with these people, find them employment, and look at the long-term effects, the long-term impact. And what's with the coordination? This is purely because the boxes that record the fact that the applicant is involved in the project, so that these boxes do not need to be clicked on by workers and workers. It's just this simple thing that there's no obligation to deal with the fact that this guy is involved in another project, that someone else is working with him in the next section, in the next department. And that's actually the system problem I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u180	I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u181	In this context, I suggest that we really sit down over these specific cases, because you probably mean departments that deal with, for example, a dose system or improve various interventions in social work, etc. But I'm always ready to sit over those specific cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u182	I thank you, and I ask for another interview, when Mr Munzar will interpel in the matter of coal taxation to Minister Maláčová. Mr Blaha will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, the right thing to do...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u184	I'd like to ask, there's going to be an interpellation for Secretary Maláčová, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u185	I would like to ask, Mr President, for an extension of a moment of time. Rightly, my interpellation, Madam Secretary, should perhaps be named an environmental tax or housing allowance. The previous Sobotkův government has had an analysis of the impact on fossil fuels on environmental taxes. The result was probably CZK 500 per household member and there were only variants for coal and coal and gas. Which is not entirely relevant to my interpellation right now, but there are flashing reports that this tax is once again under consideration, that you are considering it again. [[17.30 hours]] I want to ask if that's the case. Yesterday, there were even reports of an attempt to change housing contributions, namely to change contributions to some sources and some sources, namely coal, to put them at a disadvantage. It is clear to me, however, that it is coal that drowns the most socially weak, who do not have much money to pay, for example, many elderly households in the countryside. I want to ask if you really think that if you lower their contribution, or you upgrade coal with environmental taxes, or both, they'll find more than CZK 100,000 in their wallets for example for a heat pump and alternative energy sources. So I would like to ask your opinion, or the opinion of the ČSSD, because, especially through the mouth of the ČSSD, the government is trying to fight poverty, but it is precisely with similar plans that the weakest are mostly forgotten. Then I'd like your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u186	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u187	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members. I assume that the Ministry of the Environment has discussed the issue of coal taxation with the Ministry of Finance, because the taxes as such are due to this department. However, I would also like to stress that this is an area where we are at the level of discussion. For us I can mention, for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, that one of the many measures proposed by the Ministry in the material Conclusions resulting from the dialogue on clean air in the Czech Republic and the proposal for a further procedure is that my department in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment examine the possibility to project the way and sources of heating up to the amount of the housing levy. At present, the State is contributing to housing costs by a general levy, by a contribution to housing. At the same time, fixed fuel costs are one of the costs to which the contribution is made. These costs are fixed each year by a fixed amount in a government regulation that is always approved in December of each calendar year, differentiated by the number of persons. What they drown in, it means what the boiler is and what it drowns in, coal or the like, it is not studied for the purpose of the dose. For the above, it is necessary that the Ministry of the Environment carry out a certain categorization of ecological resources and methods of heating that would be applicable to the levy. Possible solutions in the batch area will require regulation in the Ministry of Environment, as well as in the Ministry of Environment. We are in contact on a working level on this matter. If you ask my personal opinion, all these matters - and I stress that we are at the level of discussion - must be done socially and socially fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u188	I also thank you, and I ask the honourable Member, if he is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u189	Madam Secretary, thank you. That is why I did not even intervene with Minister Brabec because I know the Ministry's position on these issues, but I was just interested in your opinion in terms of social impact. So just to explain why I've been intersecting you. Let's see what happens. I would just like to point out, in fact, that such considerations always make it more expensive for the most socially weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u190	Thank you. Madam Secretary wants to respond? He wants to respond, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u191	I can repeat what I just said. That we're aware of the problem. It's very intense. Energy costs are an item that has increased rapidly in recent years. Therefore, for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, when I receive concrete proposals and can comment on them, a socially fair and socially sensitive approach will be a fundamental and fundamental criterion for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u192	Thank you, too. And now I beg Mr Blaha, who will interpelise on the resolution of pension reform and the falling compensation ratio of Minister Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u193	Madam Secretary, from your December E15 interview, we already know that the problem with the pension system is the least for you. Seriously, though. The whole world is dealing with population ageing because it is one of the most serious demographic trends. In the Czech Republic, reform is out of sight. The last time you said in November, I quote, "We're preparing an activity that's classified at the moment." This year, pensions increased by 900 crowns. Saying what amount the pension was raised on, it's misrepresenting. An important factor is the overall compensation ratio, which shows the proportion of the average income to the average wage. The ratio until 2013 managed to hold high above 40 percent. Since the reign of the left, it's been falling. Over the last five years, it has fallen by 5%, which is about CZK 1,400 a month, and with this government it is falling by 2.7 percent a year. I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Secretary, what specific steps are you planning in relation to pension reform and how you will address the drastically declining compensation ratio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u194	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u195	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the so-called pension committee is concerned, I would rather call it the Committee on Equalisation of Inequities in the Pension System, so I would like to present it next Wednesday at a press conference at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I can reveal that all political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic will be included in this commission. koneckonců all, applications for nominations left before the end of last year for the various presidents of the parliamentary or senator clubs. Representatives of other organisations, representatives of tripartite, academic sector and, of course, non-profit-making senior organisations will be included in this work committee. I really want to have a very wide debate. I will publish more details just next Wednesday at the press conference. There is one simple reason why this press conference will not be held until next week. Because I suspect that out of the 42 addressed subjects by 15 January, seven still haven't nominated their representative. And I would like to introduce the committee as such in a full lineup. With regard to the topics that this work body will receive for discussion, we agreed on three basics at the coalition level. They're lower women's pensions. Here I think there is a great injustice. You know that Czech pensionists receive a fifth lower pension than men. The second topic, which is also included in the Government's programming declaration, is an earlier retirement in physically demanding professions. We would also like to discuss the income and long-term sustainability of the pension system. The internal regulation, which is the order of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which sets the method of work of this professional body, also sets out the way in which it is discussed. And essentially, if this work force is interested and it is in conjunction with the chairman or chairman of this pension commission, then of course this pension committee will deal with other topics. But, of course, they must be professionally developed and pre-negotiated. Otherwise, I would really like to reveal more details next week. As far as the compensation ratio is concerned, this should also be one thing to discuss within this expert opposing body. The government has long declared, and it is also included in the government's programming statement that dignified old age and adequate financial security for our seniors is a priority. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is currently preparing a proposal to increase pensions in the same amount of money as last year. Because it is above the framework of the valorisation mechanism, it will, of course, be possible to change the legislation that we will introduce in the coming weeks. That's all for me at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u196	Thank you, too. And the Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u197	Maybe not a follow-up question. So you answered me, if I understood correctly, that some proposal for a pension system, more or less the solution that is unsustainable at the moment, will be being prepared and, as a result, the commission is being formed. So it's not just about fixing the wrongs, like you said here, but I'm also assuming that the committee will be dealing with a new system. Because I remind you again, and I did not want to mention here today that, of course, Sobotkův's government immediately abolished pension reform, considered it wrong, however, during Sobotkův's reign, and it persists until today, no other system of pension reform was introduced. And I think, given that the whole world is concerned about this, I don't think we can pretend that this ageing population and, more or less, the decline in the number of people at working age doesn't concern us. So I take the answer here, Madam Secretary, thank you for making some assurance that the government wants to deal with this problem. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u198	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u199	I'm very happy to answer. I think the trend of aging society is indisputable. However, I would like to stress that our pension system is based on economic performance. At the same time, I would also stress some facts. We spend 7.4 percent of our GDP on old-age pensions, the average in Europe is 10 percent. Of course, when you look at reforms carried out across developed countries in recent years, it has always been about financial stabilizing the pension system. As I said in the previous reply, this is one of the three priority topics of the upcoming working body. However, I am very much looking forward to those detailed discussions for which there is no room here, through the representative of your club in the upcoming pension committee, which should start at the latest at the beginning of February, because the seven organisations addressed still have not nominated their representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u200	Thank you, too. Mrs Kovářová, who will interpelise on energy prices, will speak with another Nováková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u201	Dear Minister, increasing energy prices is an issue that affects every citizen of the Czech Republic. At the turn of the year and now we are included in the tide of bad news about energy prices. These prices have been set in motion and, unfortunately, in the wrong direction, they are rising. The price of electricity increases by about 10 per cent and also draws with it gas, which increases by 5 per cent on average. I think there are two things that are striking at this price increase. Firstly, one of the reasons for the price increases is the increase in emission allowances. In my opinion, it is not fair for companies to pay to pollute the air to pay citizens out of their wallets. Secondly, I was surprised by the Prime Minister's promise to keep cheap energy prices for Czech households. So I ask what happened to this promise. Madam Secretary, I would also like to know what your explanation of the reason for the increase in energy prices is, what is the reason why the Prime Minister's promises, in whose government you stand as Minister of Trade and Industry, are not being fulfilled. And do you think it's right for citizens to pay out of their wallets for this luxury of air pollution that companies have? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u202	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u203	Good afternoon, Mr President, Mrs Kovářová, honourable Members. Energy prices are a priority of this government as price stability for customers. I must say, however, that the influence of government on energy prices is not quite clear because commodity prices on world markets are rising and this, of course, also affects energy prices in the Czech Republic. The price of energy consists of two parts for the end customer. That's the regulated part that we could theoretically influence, that's the payment for distribution, transfer and support of renewable resources, and the commodity price, that's the price of power electricity. For the part that we can influence, I said we could influence her theoretically, because whoever's influencing this part is an independent Energy Regulatory Authority. I'm pointing out that he's really independent. It is independent of the will of the government, independent of the will of the Chamber of Deputies or any other body. And even there is no direct link between the activity of the Energy Regulatory Authority and the overall energy strategy of the Czech Republic. We would like to change this in some form and prepare an amendment to the Energy Act in this sense. As far as the price of power electricity is concerned, after the rapid rise in commodity prices, because it is set on a market basis, we have a large boom here, and it obviously creates a need for energy and the price of energy is rising. In the last quarter of 2018, the growth trend has been mitigated and, despite the weakening, the prices of power electricity remain approximately 40 percent higher year on year, with natural gas 15 percent compared to the same period last year. Let me mention the basic factors leading to the increase in wholesale energy prices. As you mentioned, it's the cost of the CO2 emission allowance. For coal-fired power plants producing electricity with 35 percent efficiency, there is approximately one emission allowance per megawatt hour. The allowance price has increased from EUR 5 to around EUR 25 per tonne of CO2 today since 2017. The reason for the steep rise in prices is also the nervousness of the European market for allowances due to the lack of allowances, because the issue of allowances is being made by the European Commission and we can expect the European Commission's decision to withdraw allowances from the market, so their price can continue to rise. Another factor in the rise in the price of electricity is the increase in the price of coal, especially as a result of China's decision not to benefit at home and import black coal, and therefore, of course, caused high demand in the coal market as well as pressure on price growth. The price of gas on the European market is rising because of the growth of global demand. Thirdly, at higher energy prices, there is also the gradual closure of nuclear power plants in Germany, uncertainty about the development of nuclear energy in France and Belgium, and indeed the overall strategy of the European Commission from an alternative perspective. As far as regulated components are concerned, the good news is that regulated components have risen only by per cent year-on-year and are actually relatively stable, but here some kind of moral, ethical responsibility for the Energy Regulatory Authority is playing a role. At least part of this stability compensates for the energy growth of the forces. The price of electricity for households, including all taxes, has increased by less than 10 per cent year-on-year and, despite this increase, household prices in the Czech Republic belong to the lower part of Europe. In the long run, however, electricity prices did not rise too high in the Czech Republic. While the price of electricity for Czech households has increased by 12 percent in the last 10 years, in Latvia, Greece or Spain it has increased by up to 80 percent. [[President: Time, Madam Secretary.]] Thank you. So all I want to say is that the development of energy prices for corporate customers is positive, and I would like to say that in what the government can influence that the Prime Minister promised -- not to raise -- we keep it. [[President: Madam Secretary, please, if you can finish this later.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u204	Will the Member be interested in an additional question? It will be. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u205	I just want to get this straight. Thank you so much for your detailed answer, Madam Secretary. On the one hand, you say that the government cannot influence the price of energy too much, that it is a question of boom and market price, which is, of course, true. And on the other hand, you say that the Prime Minister promises to keep prices, to keep this, or to keep low prices, and the price of energy is rising by 10 percent, and the increase is probably going to be another one. So if you could just repeat it briefly for me again, as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u206	I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u207	Well, thank you, Madame, for allowing me to complete my appeal to the Prime Minister. Indeed, as part of what we can influence, it is theoretically the part that is influenced by the Energy Regulatory Authority. There we do everything we can to ensure that the Energy Regulatory Authority perceives the market situation and protects the customer. And from our side and from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, there is an appeal to the Energy Regulatory Authority to do so. And I can tell you that I consult them regularly. The way energy prices evolve in the energy market, the wholesale power energy, we are really part of the European transmission system, and there is no chance of us influencing prices because there would be so-called. public support and we would have to defend it on the ground of the European Commission, which we certainly would not be able to do in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u208	Thank you, too. And next, Mr Jelínek, who will interpel on the architectural competition for the Central European Forum of Minister Staněk, will be interviewed. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Dear Minister, my interpellation is based on the information given in the media. On Tuesday, January 22, 2019, you said to the Mladá fronta today that the funds for the Central European Forum are definitively allocated. There's nothing stopping it from being created in Olomouc. You also said that you expected the introduction of the Central European Forum in 2024 into the test operation. In the press it says that the museum director Michal Soukup approved the subsidy... the director was pleased with the approval of the subsidy, and as I believe most citizens in Olomouc too. However, fewer citizens are satisfied with the form of the Central European Forum. In the design by Mr. architect Jan Šépka, who drew into the hole a bold modern structure composed of five original houses made of five homosexuals, partly a shell made of coarse concrete. Since I was, in a way, a representative of the city of Olomouc at the creation of the Central European Forum, when I agreed to take the Museum of Art under the Regional Authority as a condition for obtaining a grant title, I continue to follow its development. Even then, Mr Šépka's proposal was very contradictory and aroused conflicting reactions. In today's social networks, I have also created a survey on my profile, which has led several times to the detriment of the architect's proposal. We already have an unfortunate experience in Olomouc with architectural designs on the upper square, which is why I ask you whether the Ministry will actually hear the opinion of the majority of the population and not implement this controversial proposal and write an architectural competition. [[Attention on time.]] So that's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-024-230.u210	Thank you, too. The Minister will answer your question in writing within 30 days. And now I beg Mr Jurečka, who will interpel on the issue of bridges over express roads, which are owned by municipalities, but I do not see the Member here, so he is failing to intervene. Likewise, Mrs Golasowská informed me that she would no longer be here, so that is all, because then Mr Jurečka followed and he is still not here, and neither is the Member. So thank you all. That's all for today. I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when we're going to proceed with the approved show. Have a good evening.
