ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u1	207. Government bill on compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination /German press 451/ - third reading I would like to ask the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Health, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, to take his place at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 451/3, which was delivered on 18 October 2019, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 451/4. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the start of the debate. That's right. I will ask all colleagues who are still full of impressions from the previous vote to keep them quiet or to transfer their discussions to the foyer. [[Noise doesn't stop.]] One more time, please, quiet in the room! All the debaters, all the crowds who don't even listen to me when I ask for peace... I don't want to name it. Thank you. Both sides! Thank you. At the same time, I shall pass on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the proposal which has therefore entered into the third reading and which corresponds to the long-term requirement of both the professional and lay public regarding the introduction of the Institute of Compensation for Damage caused by compulsory vaccination. As we know, the legal order of the Czech Republic currently does not contain a similar legal title on the basis of which compensation could be claimed, so in this respect we are actually changing this situation, which I think is inadequate, and we allow both the person who is damaged by vaccination and the persons who are close to us to claim compensation for harm to the health or mental hardship caused by killing etc. With regard to the individual amendments that were read in the second reading, the Ministry of Health can support the first amendment, i.e. the proposal by Mrs Adámková and Mr Farhan, Mr Janulík, Mrs Běhounek and Mr Kaňkovský on the provisions of Section 2, and the proposal for a new section 6. As regards Section 2, it is proposed to narrow the scope of compensation for damage caused by property and non-property damage only to the difficulty of social application, i.e. to compensate only for the permanent consequences of compulsory vaccination. As regards the new draft Section 6, it is proposed that the Ministry should be able to set up an independent expert panel as an advisory body for the assessment of more complicated cases, which we consider logical. I therefore have no reservations about these changes and respect the majority will of the members of the Committee on Health, who also supported this amendment. The second amendment is Mr Kaňkovský's proposal on the provision of Section 4. Here, the Member proposes to replace the patient's right to consent to the Ministry to consult the health documentation kept by the health service provider of the Ministry's obligations to request the documents necessary to assess the right to compensation if he is not attached to his application. Unfortunately, I cannot agree with this proposal. Please note that the amendment is due to the fact that the patient is deprived of the right to choose to have access to sensitive data about him kept and, at the same time, to establish an obligation for the Ministry, which is actually quite counterproductive for the application assessment process, since the Ministry will not have the information that all providers are required to request for the above documents. Their identification is not even listed among the mandatory particulars in the claim for compensation pursuant to § 4 para. 2 of the proposed law. On the other hand, the patient, respectively. its legal representative has the right under the law to information which the provider cannot refuse, including access to medical documentation and the provision of an extract or a copy thereof. In contrast to the Ministry, it is also able to assess the completeness of the medical documentation as the provision of the health service was personally present. It may therefore be possible that, as a result of this amendment, the Ministry of Health would not be able to obtain the necessary information for objective reasons, and it will then be at the expense of the patient, who will not be able to be compensated for the lack of evidence, so that his request can not be dealt with positively. Therefore, I cannot support this amendment. But otherwise, I'd like to ask you to approve the bill in question. Again, it is a long-term debt that we have within the Czech rule of law, and this institute of compensation from our point of view is quite appropriate and should also dull the edges of the opponents of vaccination, who point out among others. to the fact that there is currently no form of compensation for damage to the vaccine. Thank you for your attention and therefore for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u3	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 451/3, which was delivered on 18 October. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House press 451/4. I'm opening the debate. I don't have an application for it, and I'm asking if anyone's checking in. Yes, Mr. Jan Farský reporting from his post. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the third reading, we are receiving a bill that has an important task and a fundamental ambition in order to straighten out the relationship between compulsory vaccinations and the state, because so far I believe there has been a large debt that corresponds - let's say, east of the Iron Curtain - the thought that remained here in the fact that people were obliged to undergo vaccinations, but at the same time, if there has been any damage, they have had a great problem to await any compensation. The State imposed an obligation on them, but refused responsibility. And I think it is very good that this change is taking place and that the State is taking responsibility for the negative consequences of vaccination. According to the authorities, in some years, the number of serious consequences was around 600 a year, which is a number which, of course, hides a wide range of individual negative consequences from relatively possible small consequences to essential ones, but what is in them is, of course, the problem is that when the state says "you have to get vaccinated, but we refuse to bear responsibility" as it says, we can interpret it either as that nothing can happen, which doesn't even say that nothing can happen, but that it refuses to bear responsibility for something negative can happen. And imagine the situation of parents who will become their child, the most precious thing they have, reacts in some way non-standard to the vaccinations that have taken place. At that point, we can't expect them to start gathering evidence, detectively gathering complex documentation to fight for damages. That is why I think that the concept that is chosen, as set out in this proposal, is correct. It is correct that the burden of proof is not imposed on them, which has been the case so far under the existing provisions. The only sigh about it - but first I will comment on the amendments for our club. We will not support the amendment from Mrs Adámková, who has passed the Health Committee, because we do not consider it appropriate to narrow it down. On the contrary, we will support Mr Kaňkovský's proposal and support and support this bill. [[10.40 hours]] Why we're doing this is just our consistent action. As starosta, we have already proposed this introduction of objective responsibility for the negative consequences of vaccination in the House more than two years ago. At that time, and it was April 26, 2017, when we voted in the House, this proposal received only 43 votes when it was rejected by social democracy, YES and KSČM... and Dawn, which still needs to be mentioned. I am very pleased that, through this debate, this problem has been explained and pushed forward by the government itself with this proposal. The sigh is that we could have had this law for two years and that for two years he could, on the one hand, give a helping hand to people who had suffered negative consequences and, at the same time, he could have acted positively in the sense that, at the end of his speech, the Minister mentioned that the mistrust of vaccination and its possible negative consequences should be weakened. We will also support this law because, at a time when the State takes responsibility not only for the general well-being it imposes on it, but also takes responsibility for any negative consequences, it is precisely the way that it treats its citizens not as subordinates and as property, but as partners. This is the way to ensure that trust between these responsibilities and citizens and the state is as high as possible. That is why we support this proposal, as we supported it two years ago, but unfortunately the current ruling coalition did not support it at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u5	I thank my colleague Farský. I have four more applications for the debate. Now, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mrs Věra Adámková will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, just a moment. I ask the House for peace so that we can hear the individual contributions with due attention. We are in the third reading, we will decide on the final form of the law, and so please bring the debates that are not related to this point into the foyer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u6	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues. Allow me to comment on the proposed bill for the KDU-ČSL at third reading. As we mentioned at first and second reading, the KDU-ČSL MP supports this government bill. We appreciate that, in fact, after long years of being called by the lay public, but also by part of the professional public after this type of law, the Ministry of Health prepared it. As regards the support for individual amendments, I actually supported the amendment at that first stage, I as a person, Professor Adámková, to narrow down the original bill, actually narrowing down the compensation. However, after the discussion with both damaged families and experts, we changed our position and the amendment under point A1 will not support our parliamentary club. Unfortunately, we think that the narrowing is too big and maybe it's still for another discussion. Let's see if our colleagues in the Senate get back to it. But we will not support the amendment by Professor Adámková and others as a club in voting at third reading today. We will also propose the division of the voting procedure so that the amendment point under the heading is voted in particular. [[Proposal]] A1 and, in particular, the amendment under the heading. A2. Then we'll do the voting procedure. We are prepared to support the law itself. And I would like to make a brief comment on the amendment under the heading. B, which is my amendment. It has already been commented by the Minister in the sense that he does not agree with him as Minister of Health. However, I would like to explain to you the substance of this amendment and also why I cannot accept or disagree with the Minister's reasoning on this amendment. Here it must be said that if the family or the victim himself, but consider that most of the time it will be a family, i.e. the legal representatives of the damaged child, will ask, or will actually apply the Institute to compensate for the damage caused by compulsory vaccination, then at that point it actually expresses its consent to the treatment of his medical records. We could say a lot of other examples here from practice when it's like this. So talking about breaking into sensitive patient data in some way, in my opinion, is not appropriate. As for the act itself, we also do not propose a strict duty of the Ministry. We're suggesting it as an option in the law. If the family has no problem with the medical facility where the compulsory vaccination was given, then the family will, of course, deliver all those documents to the Ministry of Health itself. That's the basic theory of the law, and we don't have a problem with it. We are merely giving the opportunity to propose an amendment to a part of the families, where trust between the family and the particular health facility would be impaired, so that they delegate the possibility to the Ministry of Health. It means, it's not an obligation, it's just an option. And the damaged family, or the damaged one, by the act of asking for compensation, actually agrees to be treated with his medical records. That means I can't agree with the Minister's argument. And then it is necessary to mention the current situation in legislation. There are already cases where authorised persons or competent authorities may consult the medical documentation without the consent of the patient himself, this is covered by Section 65 para. 2 of the Health Services Act. And the list is quite long. However, I repeat once again, in this particular case, we do not break into sensitive data, because the family already agrees to be treated with those medical data by the act of asking for compensation. And surely the implementing regulation can adjust the extent of the medical documentation needed to do so. It won't be that wide again. This means that this is a matter of the implementing regulation which can be adapted to this. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to support this amendment. It's a helpful gesture to the damaged families so they won't be exposed to other traumas, and they'll have to communicate in some way with the medical facility where they received the vaccination. And I'm gonna say one more thing that I said here at second reading. I am convinced that, in the vast majority of cases, the medical facility was in no doubt. It's not his fault. However, that trust can also be disrupted by the emotional burden of the family. And it's traumatic for both the family and the medical facility. In conclusion, KDU-ČSL will support this bill. And I dare to politely ask you to support my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u7	Thank you, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Now, Mrs Věra Adámková, my colleague Janulík will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words on this topic. I am very glad that we have reached the point where we are already talking about the final version, because the compensation is more than necessary and we have missed it in the long term, of course there is no dispute. As for the amendment by my colleague Kaňkovský, I think he is useless here, because by introducing the expert independent commission, which will, of course, cooperate with the potentially damaged family, all documents can be requested without any problems from the medical facility. And I don't think from practice there's any medical facility that doesn't cooperate with this expert committee. This has never happened in other cases, or we can certainly say that even this time. Otherwise, of course, it is a good thing that the person who asks, because it is usually the family or their parents, has another option and is not alone. That is, of course, very good. With regard to that point one or Section 2 of my amendment and my colleagues, it is a question of, firstly, that there is also compensation for mental hardships, especially because the parents of a child who would have permanent consequences are still going through some kind of mental damage, that is indisputable, which is very hard to put on a scale, because almost this scale cannot exist in this issue. That's why he's there for the mental hardships. [[10.50 hours]] In addition, we also introduce the cost of care effectively incurred by the household that provides the care. So it's not narrowing down as it was understood in the first sense, but it's still there that we're also giving to the household that cares about the disabled, which, of course, is very stressful, and if it's been here for a long time, and I hope there's really very little of those cases, so it can more or less devastate the family as a functional whole. So it's not narrowing down, it's thinking from practice, it's thinking about the states that can happen and that the family doesn't have the money for. As far as mental distress is concerned, it is here because often those parents, although the damage from an objective point of view would not seem so great, they may have to change their jobs, they cannot do exactly what they want to do. So it's really in there even in the complex given this way. And as for the payment, why we introduced a kind of difficult social application there, in the broadest sense, it was also after consultation with patient organisations, of course also with health lawyers, because it is more or less a question of legal wording. It's because we don't want futuro - and I've explained it - to damage the baby just because we put it in the system because it has a temperature of two or three days, which is the reaction wanted. The organism we're inoculating must still have a reaction that it's even able to respond to the immune system. So here we need to consider a little bit, so that we don't damage these mostly children -- these adults really are minority -- in the future. If we were to compensate them or put them in the wrong category, I would point out what I was saying: we don't know where development is going, and we don't want to make a law for one or two years, but for a long time. And they are planning and preparing - and those studies are already underway - vaccines that have protein carriers and other things that cannot be re-infected or have common features where a similar vaccine cannot be vaccinated. I'm on a very general call now. And we're here to keep these kids from being somehow misplaced and not being vaccinated later. That is why we are setting up, on the one hand, the consequences that must be assessed and, therefore, the commission. So, on the contrary, I think that this law also thinks about mental hardships, thinks about the families of those affected, and that it is certainly not narrowing down, that it was therefore not properly understood. So I'm asking for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Věra Adámková. Now, Mr Janulík, Mr Válek will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I think you can see there's a doctor's demise going on here, it's far from over. Logically, we're trying to express it as a doctor, but I assure you, it's - we're talking almost 99 percent about children here, notice that it's a vaccination of children. Of course, adults are also vaccinated, but we've basically narrowed it down to the children, or we're subconsciously aware that it's just the children. Although, of course, we have to take into account that they are not just child patients. First of all. But there's a little bit of a elementary thing that slipped out of it that one of the greatest medical advances in the history of mankind that has appeared and which has fundamentally changed civilization is vaccination. None of us realizes it anymore, doesn't see it, and we take it for granted, but I think I know in my family that my great-grandmother's birthed 1870 had 14 children, but seven of them didn't live to be two years old. And we kind of forgot about that pretty quickly, and the crucial breakthrough that it meant in the development of civilization and humanity, we just take for granted. And today we're talking about compensation for actually something that, of course, logically, things must always have some side effects. And no method in medicine works at 100%, or it's not self-sustainable. And it's just a question from some statistics, maybe even stochastics. But our progress as a civilization and, of course, our state so far, we're already compensating for the "good deed" that's burdened with some statistical error, so it just shows how far we've come. And we're even debating that if I, as a doctor or any paramedic, do what he's supposed to do, that means he's required to inoculate his patients, so that he might even be punished for it. Because every method, not just vaccination, any diagnostic, therapeutic, medical, method, is burdened with some mistake. Just sui generis or because people do it on people. And we've already come this far - I just want to point out to all of you that this is a funeral of a highly specific medical professional problem, and don't go into any lay courts. Therefore, there is a committee of experts proposed, and so on and so forth, to assess these matters. As the professor said, the baby's going to have a temperature, well, that's a desirable effect. That's exactly what we expect, and that's what we want. So we really need to consider on the pharmacies' scales where this might actually go, or where we want it to get, what we're actually going to compensate and what we're not going to compensate for anymore. And what's being blamed for today's vaccination, well, that's a wonder, and it'll probably show some time again, as it really is, because it's gonna take years of work and research. But if he's been inoculating some, I don't know, about 150 years, look at what's happened over the last 150 years, where we've gone. So I really wouldn't bring any more aspects into this, I would stay with the proposal that the minister here lectured, and we'll see how life goes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u11	Thank you, Mr Janulík. Mr David Kasal, Mr Válek, is still prepared. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to supplement my honourable colleague, Dr Janulík, through Mr President. I'm glad the proposal's like this because we don't realize a lot of things. I'm not going to be a pediatrician here at all right now, but on the contrary, it's because they're vaccinated and groups of pensioners, and as the population gets older, so dementia is developing, so I'd be worried if it's very widely understood that there are lawyers who would use it and who would like to raise funds in this way. So exactly as it was said, development will show, and we need to think not only of children, but we need to think of the entire population.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u13	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and Mr Válek is ready. I can still read the apology of the Minister of Transport Kremlík from 11 to 14.30. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Well, first of all, positive. I think there is a consensus across the political parties from all the doctors who have acted that this law has come to the table and it is good that the state admits that there are some complications after vaccination that cannot be prevented simply because each exercise has some complications and is ready to compensate for these complications. I see the only minor problem in Professor Adámková's amendment, which I greatly appreciate, and it is given not even as much content as the legal opinion on this amendment. That is why I am very sorry that, through Mr President, there is not my name tag - I am more like her namesake - Professor Válková, because I would know by how she nods, whether I am mistaken or not. I'll explain briefly. Generally compensation is compensation, no matter what it relates, and how the compensation is implemented is defined by another law. It corresponds to the general concept of compensation for injury to health under the Civil Code. And the Civil Code defines exactly how this compensation is done, what the compensation is for and on what level it is and to what extent the compensation is. That's how the law was conceived, as I originally understood it. And in that proposal, it was merely about compensation to the extent that it is defined by the Civil Code. However, this amendment narrows it down, in my opinion, because it perceives certain areas of compensation that are in the Civil Code, and that amendment is getting them out of here. When I say this, as I see it, there is actually only a reduction in the burden of social application and the cost of caring for the health of the vaccinated person and his household. It emits compensation for the costs of material injury. This proposal would completely exclude painful, compensation for persons close to death or particularly serious harm to the health of the vaccinated and other claims, as a loss of earnings, which in general is all the compensation that is defined by the Civil Code. That means there would be a narrowing. It's just how I see it. Thus, those who suffer from the damage caused by vaccination would be at a disadvantage from all other victims who have any other health damage. [[11.00 hours]] So my problem and the problem with our MP's club is that we like the law very much and we would very much like to support it, but we have a problem with this narrowing down because we think it is not entirely correct with this group of patients. I therefore advise that we will probably want to take a break before the final vote. We're gonna want to talk about how to deal with this. And once again, thank you very much to the Ministry of Health for preparing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u15	I thank Mr Vlastimil War, Mr Vlastimil Válek, and I note the request before the final vote on a possible break, which will be announced by the club chairman. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Helena Válková, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u16	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I apologise that this time it will be unprepared, but from what I have had the opportunity to hear, it is one of the cases where the text in force does not prevent it and, as far as I know, the theory, the caselaw. In the Institute of Compensation, we can therefore narrow the compensation and specify it to certain cases such as those in this proposal that we are discussing now without committing any breach. We certainly do not change - that would, of course, be wrong - the meaning and purpose of the Institute's compensation. So just in general, if that's what it takes, we'd go into some more specific explanation. If Mr Válek, by your means, Mr Vice-President, that is what he meant, his question or, rather, criticism. As far as I can tell, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u17	Thank you for keeping the time, but Mr Vlastimil Válek is also reporting on a factual point. We can probably get things straight around here. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u18	I thank the Professor very much through the President and thus confirm what I believe. Once again, we like the law, and we just don't know if this amendment will pass, whether we are prepared to support it at the cost of narrowing it down or not, even if we like it. And that's probably what we're gonna need to discuss at the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u19	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and we will now continue the debate by speaking to Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, Olga Richterová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u20	Good day to all of you, Mr President. I would like to state for the ODS that we welcome the bill very much. The situation related to the damage after the vaccination was a situation which was actually para legum. It was next to the law, it was not solved at all, it was neither praeter legem nor - it was para legem, next to the law, and it is a really big mistake. What I would like to stress, however, is that you all realize that this compensation for any difficulties or damage after vaccination is not a confirmation of the opinion that vaccination is harmful. The frequency of these damage is very, very small. Even the 600 that's been reported here is a high number. The trouble, or let's say damage, is extraordinary. They're as special as the exceptional damage to the patient after any therapy. No therapy may take place without any side effects. This needs to be said very loudly, because the hysteria that developed against vaccination is incredibly high. We now see the damage to patients from the fact that there are epidemics that have not been here and which, of course, concern those who are at greater risk, that is, small children and old people. So that's what we need to know. Basically know - we don't deal with the harmfulness of vaccination, we deal with extraordinary, very special events. And that is also why we will support the proposal by my colleague Adámková and the associates, simply because it is such an extraordinary thing that it is not actually a narrowing down, it is actually a pulling out of what is most important and important. These things are most important, but they are actually small. Always the problems in psychology, etc. There are things that don't have those commissions in their minds to decide. So this is a proposal that we will also support. We also support the proposal of our colleague Kaňkovský. We believe that when someone protests the results of the vaccination, they actually give the principle of agreeing to enter his documentation. It's logical. Without it, you just can't. And we see as a strong argument that if the Ministry has such an option - I don't want to call it an obligation, an option, so that it follows from the implementing regulations - it will eliminate those cases where those parents or patients will actually feel threatened by the fact that their cause will not be documented and examined simply because they do not believe in a health care file. I am saying this because it is necessary to put all these things very widely on the table just so that we can deal with the problem of the hysteria surrounding the vaccination, so that it is a thing that is quite clearly on the table, which we know what the meaning is, what the point is, that it can have some pathological reaction at the frequency it has, and that we are dealing with all these things. So once again, from ODS support in full.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u21	I thank Mr Svoboda. Now, Mrs Richterová, so far the last one entered into the debate at third reading. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u22	Thank you for the floor. Dear Members of the Government present, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, I would like, as in past readings, to declare briefly the support of this bill by the Pirates Membership Club. We had this also in the electoral programme that, if the state imposes an obligation, as in this case, on the obligation of vaccination, it should, in turn, help with the consequences if they occur. And, of course, the practice will show how well the proposal will work. We understand that this is about to develop, but it seems to us to be a good proposal in Amendment A to create a commission, a committee of experts. And unfortunately, we are also not sure about the narrowing proposed in the first part of design A. That is why we would like to go through the split voting procedure so that we can declare support for those committees. Second, as regards Dr Kaňkovský's amendment, I believe that this is precisely the one that is not black and white, that this is at the discretion of how we approach this right of access to medical documentation. I will personally support this proposal, I think it makes sense that, in particular, parents have the opportunity to delegate the request for medical documentation to a superior body, but I am aware that this is not a very clear matter, and I will understand that probably others will, in turn, be given the possibility - that, after all, everyone does not need to be aware of what all the medical documentation will then be requested that, because of this opinion, some Members or Members will probably refrain from our club. And once again, I would like to summarize that today's vote has one negative for me, and that -- how on earth could it have taken so long? Something that is simply logical that the state should take on its burden, if it imposes responsibility, then it should help when undesirable consequences arise, and in our country we come to this at the end of 2019. That's all I have to say, it's kind of sad. Otherwise, I'm glad we're finally going to vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u23	Thank you, Mrs Richterová. One more point in fact, Mrs Adámková. We are still in the debate at third reading. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I've forgotten, and I want the plenary to know. Thank you so much for the words of Professor Svoboda. This really isn't that we don't support vaccinations. It is a compensation, of course, which can come after each injection, after each exercise, so also after vaccination, because it certainly is an interference with the immune system. But I wanted to introduce you to the fact that the World Health Organization has eliminated us from the list of safe countries worldwide as far as measles are concerned. So you can see that this vaccination is really necessary, which I'm sorry, because we're at the level of 1960. So we spent 50 years in one piece trying for nothing. And otherwise, as far as the documentation is concerned, it is possible to request it, the expert committee will, of course, request it in its entirety. A parent really doesn't have to know what papers he's supposed to give, so we'd put a lot on him. And they're gonna be dominating kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u25	Thank you. One more point in fact by Mr David Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u26	Thank you for the floor. I have yet another reaction to Mrs Richterová through Mr President, and I have heard it for the second or third time as long as it lasted. I would like to make this right, and I would like to say that we are only talking about the health of our children here, and that is why it was created by the previous minister of the working group that discussed all this. She was discussing it with the patient organizations, discussing it with a very aggressive group of Rozalio, discussing it with practical doctors, discussing it with everyone. That's why it took so long. But I think that because it is not only about the health of the children or patients, but also about financial compensation, so it needs to be set precisely. So I just wanted to clarify how it was that it was in 2019, but it's ready to last for the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u27	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and now Mrs Langšádlová, also with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u28	Thank you for the floor. Some of you are questioning the fact that disinformation is spreading quite often in our society. Some of you are questioning the reports of our services, or think that the disinformation that is spreading here is only political in scope, that it concerns Ukraine, Crimea, that it concerns the European Union, but please see from which servers, from which sources disinformation, such as measles vaccination, is spreading, and these are the impacts. So please, if we are talking about misinformation, if we are talking about fake news, very often other than political topics, and please consult experts on how much disinformation about vaccination has come from these disinformation servers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point by Mr Václav Klaus. [[Noise in the hall.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u30	Hello. I'd respond to a previous speaker who messed up some disinformation I don't know what to do about vaccination. So I'd just like to point out, when I look at the board, the whole point is called compensation for the damage caused by compulsory vaccination, so I guess the compulsory vaccination does some damage sometimes, or the prominent Members wouldn't be discussing it here. At least that's the logical way I see it. So what disinformation are we talking about?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u31	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and if no one is reporting, I am done with the debate. I have a question, Minister. You want the final word? Yes. The rapporteur? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the debate and the support of the law itself. I agree that perhaps the law should have been prepared earlier, but on the other hand, it is good that it is here and that I hope it will be approved. In particular, where the debate is being held, amendments are tabled. I have no problem dividing the voting procedure as proposed in the amendment. As for Mr Kaňkovský's amendment, I must insist that this is simply not a happy-written amendment. The proposal really gives the Ministry of Health an obligation to request the documents, but the question is whether the Ministry will even be able to request those documents if it doesn't even know the service providers who provided the health service, the vaccination application, the victim. The Ministry has no way of knowing this information because it is not mentioned among the mandatory requirements when submitting a claim for compensation. That means that if we don't get this information, if the victim doesn't give it to us, we won't be able to verify, find out, and if we don't know where to ask for the documents, then we might not be able to bear the burden of proof, and then the victim will be decided against. [[Noise in the hall.]] So I simply point out that I think that in this regard is a much better option, if the person who has been damaged, or the legal representative, is required, for which he is already legally authorized by law, every health service provider, must issue medical documentation to the patient or the injured person. So I think it really is better to insist on the consent of the representative or patient, and not to impose an obligation on the Ministry, which may not be able to live up to that obligation in real practice or in real life, and could be detrimental to the decision on the claim for compensation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u33	I thank the Minister of Health for the final word. I have here with priority rights the application of President Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, please understand, before the vote on the amendments, please take a 15-minute break for the club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u35	Yes, thank you, it was announced in Mr Válek's speech. The rapporteur will only speak now with the final word, and then I will take a break, or until the procedure. Madam rapporteur? Okay, well, before... Because it's before the vote, so we're gonna let the rapporteur speak with the final word, and then I'm gonna call a break for the TOP 09 meeting. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u36	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to join those who say that it is good that we finally have this bill on our table that proposes compensation for the damage caused by compulsory vaccination. I want to say that the health committee, which is the guarantee committee on this bill, has dealt with this proposal very responsibly indeed. We have interrupted the negotiations, we have dealt with organisations such as those already mentioned by Rozalio. I am very glad that this has been the case and we have reached some consensus. At this point, however, we have amendments which seem not to be entirely consensual. But I believe we'll find a good match. And for myself, let me just say that it's called a gray theory, a green tree of life, that practice will also show us what really needs, what is narrowing, or what is the extension of the proposal. I'll say for myself that I'm in agreement with Professor Adámková. I really consider her amendment, her and others, including my very esteemed colleague Mr Běhounek, to be an extension, a more precise definition of what is considered to be injury, and so that those people can actually achieve it if, God forbid, the damage happens. I, as rapporteur, have registered the proposal to divide the vote on Amendment A, of course, it will be voted on, I will, after the break, make the draft procedure and then the vote will be taken. Thank you for this moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u37	Thank you for the final vote to the rapporteur, and I will now announce a 15-minute break for the TOP 09 meeting. Meet me at 11:35.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue. The time has passed for the TOP 09 meeting and we will be in the final phase of the discussion of the draft law at third reading. I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give opinions on them before the vote. Of course, while he presents them in his speech, we will also ask the Minister just before the vote. I'll ask the House for peace. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u39	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been no motion to reject the law, so we will not vote. The guarantee committee proposed the following procedure: voting on legislative technical adjustments if they were not submitted, so we do not need to talk about it. Specific voting procedure: first vote is proposal A, which is an amendment by Professor Adámková and others. I would remind you that this is a proposal establishing an exact definition of what is to be compensated and a proposal to set up an independent expert committee for the assessment of injury. Furthermore, vote on Amendment B, which is the proposal by Mr Kaňkovský, which gives the Ministry of Health the opportunity to request medical documentation unless it is submitted by those who complain and who ask for compensation. And last to vote on the bill as a whole. In the debate, a proposal for a change of procedure was made, so that Professor Adámková's proposal should be divided into two parts, which will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u40	That was the design of the procedure. Does anyone have any reservations about him or any other proposal? It's not like that. So we will vote on this procedure in the 47 series vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 47 of the 183 present for 169, against no one. The procedure has been approved. Now we can follow this procedure. Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u41	Technically, may I? Are we sure we've approved the separation procedure?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u42	Yes, with the division.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u43	Okay, thank you. So we will now vote on Mrs Adámková's proposal - paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u44	Opinion? [[The Minister agrees.]] Madam rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u45	The Committee has not adopted an opinion or adopted a recommendation on the whole bill, on the amendment, so I assume a recommendation on the first part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u46	I've started a 48-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 48 from 184 present for 135, against 31 Member. The motion was accepted. Second draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u47	The second proposal is the second part of the amendment by Professor Adámková, which is the establishment of an independent expert committee. The Committee adopted a recommendation opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u48	Opinion? [[The Minister agrees.]] The rapporteur? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote on order number 49 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 49 of 184 present for 170, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u49	Another and last amendment is the proposal by Mr Kaňkovský. This is the possibility of authorising the Ministry of Health to request medical documentation if it is not supplied to the injured.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u50	Opinion, rapporteur? [[The Committee has not adopted an opinion on this proposal.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started a number 50 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 50 of 184 present for 57, against 20. The motion was not accepted. We have therefore exhausted the amendments and will vote on the bill as a whole. [[11.40 hours]] So we're going to proceed to the proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill on compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination, according to the House of Press 451, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' We're going to decide the number 51 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 51 of the 184 present for 179, against no one. The motion has been approved. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister and end with paragraph 207.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u51	Thank you, too, and I believe that this bill will be needed as little as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-27-ps2017-039-02-007-207.u52	We'll continue with point number
