ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u1	9. The draft law amending the Senate's statutory measure No. 340/2013 Coll., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended by Act No. 254/2016 Coll. House print 179/6/ - returned to the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House press 179/7. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Raduan Nwelati among us and I ask that the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled be expressed by the plaintiff Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador. And I ask the House for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u2	Have a good day. In fact, I also submitted a law at least three quarters of a year ago, which basically complements the Senate's legal provisions, which -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u3	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask your colleagues to remain calm. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u4	So my proposal, which was submitted plus minus three quarters of a year ago, complements the original legal measure of the Senate of 340/2013 Coll., on the real estate acquisition tax, when, essentially, in the Senate proposal, the remission of the real estate acquisition tax, which in the case of the first bribery, was possible when the apartment in the apartment building was completed, and they forgot basically the apartments in the family houses. So this was the core of my proposal that went -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u5	Mr. Ambassador, I will interrupt you again and invite your - especially your - party colleagues to be more calm, or to move their meetings outside the O.R. The same applies, of course, in another part of the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u6	- and this proposal went to the Senate, and the Senate had comments, which perhaps a fellow Member from the Senate will present here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u7	Thank you. And now I ask the senator to take the floor, who will introduce us to the Senate's proposals. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, colleagues. I say, colleagues, colleagues, on purpose, because I perceive that the Senate and The Chamber of Deputies should cooperate, and it should not be taken that we are against each other, or that when we return the law, it is with the intention of not approving what came from the House. [[19.40 hours]] So, dear colleagues, allow me to justify the return of the amendment to the bill amending the Senate legal measure No. 340/2013 Coll., on property acquisition tax, as amended by Act No. 254/2016 Coll. It is a Member's proposal for a law which has only one ambition - to legislatively extend the substantive exemption from tax for new buildings to the category of completed or used housing units in family homes and thus prevent sometimes even a non-single approach of the tax administrator in this matter. Let me first remind the original objective of the amendment, only then will I explain the reasons which led the Senate to return it to the Chamber of Deputies and to the proposal to abolish the real estate acquisition tax entirely. [[Noise in the hall.]] The former approval of the measure for the acquisition of real estate tax chose a slightly different formulation of the conditions for exemption from the then introduced real estate acquisition tax compared to the original real estate transfer tax. In strictly grammatical interpretation, the exemption can be applied only in the case of the first acquisition of title to the right of building, which includes the completed or used construction of the whole family house. However, unlike housing houses, financial authorities generally refuse to apply the exemption if the acquisition should concern only some of the housing units defined in the family home. Both types of buildings, i.e. residential and family houses, are considered to be so-called. housing buildings. However, the family house may have a maximum of three separate apartments. The difference between an apartment house and a family house is essentially not qualitative but quantitative. In 2017, the Financial Administration published an interpretation that the exemption for flats in family houses does not apply. The investigation of the public defender of rights showed that in more than a quarter of the cases of the tax administrator nevertheless accepted the interpretation that the acquisition of housing units in family homes was exempt. This is, by the way, an example of how the tax authorities are acting in disunity with us, as it exists, or, more precisely, there is no legal certainty of their procedure. Every time this law opens, however, there is also a legitimate debate about whether the collection of this tax is correct. The collection of property acquisition tax is at most questionable. In principle, it is chosen only because it brings about CZK 12 to 13 billion into the state budget. In addition, from 1 November 2016, regional self-governing units or legal entities established by municipalities and regions are exempt from payment of this tax in addition to the State. Natural persons and most legal persons must continue to pay this tax. It is always paid by the acquirer, which means that this tax clearly increases the cost of acquiring any real estate. In fact, this results in further taxation of already taxed revenue. In this respect, the use of this tax is totally unacceptable and immoral. Its selection brings an increase in property prices, which is currently a big problem. We all know that the Czech Republic is in a housing crisis. Prices of flats, flats or family houses have been rising sharply in recent years, especially in large cities. Indeed, the middle class, let alone the young families, will not reach its own housing. It is for these reasons that: On the basis of the resolution of the Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport, the Senate proposes, in the context of the amendment, to abolish this tax altogether. If that were the case, this year's tax revenue would be roughly 3 to 4 billion. That's not something the state budget couldn't handle. By contrast, the abolition of the tax will clearly have a positive effect on citizens - it will lead to a reduction in the cost of purchasing their own housing, thereby increasing its availability. The Senate has made its proposal clear to those who choose an active and responsible approach to ensuring their life and family life. Why should citizens be more indebted and restricted because of this senseless tax? It should be done to limit and reduce. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I shall repeat a few important things once again. One. The only reason why a real estate tax is levied is income from the state budget. Some taxes have a different reason than tax collection and an increase in the revenue of the state budget, e.g. excise duty on tobacco or alcohol. But this tax, the real estate tax, really has no other reason than income into the state budget. This is a tax - and I have already said this - which makes the cost of own housing completely more expensive and thus makes it impossible for some people to get their own housing. And the last thing I want to say here is taxation of already taxed money. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, we have a unique opportunity together to abolish this tax, thereby making housing available to those who cannot reach it at the moment. Thank you for your attention and I beg you to support the novel as it was returned to the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u9	I thank you and now please the rapporteur for the guarantee committee, which was the Committee on Budgets, Mr Roman Onderka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u10	Have a nice evening. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I will now abstain from my personal opinion on the matter. I just want to point out one small thing in the quotation marks that the Senate proposal means 13.5 billion minus the state budget. And I would very much like us to vote on this proposal to be aware of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u11	Thank you, too. Before I open the debate, I'll introduce you to a note. Mr Benda has apologized to us since 7:40 p.m. from today's meeting. And now I am opening the debate. The plaintiff wants to speak with priority, so please, then the others sign in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u12	Thank you. As my colleague said, the tax blackout would be over 13 billion to the state budget, which, of course, would be a problem. But I was intrigued by what the senator said. He said it's affecting the price of apartments. So it comes down to the classic lessons from micro- and macro-economics, when demand and supply determine the price of flats. If demand is relatively huge, supply is small, so if the tax changes or doesn't change, it won't matter at all because the market responds to the fact that the apartments aren't. So it's really a question somewhere else, not towards taxes. Then another thing that interests me, what he said here, is that the only reason why the property tax is real estate tax is income from the state budget. Well, if we want to be like somewhere in Cambodia or somewhere where there's no real estate records, if we just don't want to keep registers - and I warn you that even from the days of the Czech Kingdom, so somewhere those cadastral books are very old... Well, I guess there's a cost to invest for that. So money is necessary for these accounting matters and for the manipulation and updating of these information systems. [[19.50 hours]] Well, that's just a reaction to what the colleague said. Of course, I would very much like you to support the version of the Houses, because it is delightful to cancel taxes, especially when it is in front of the state budget. But somebody should also tell who the blackout is and what it's going to be filled with. So I'd like us to approve the House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u13	Thank you. Now there are two factual points. First, Mr Munzar. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to my apologies. Mr Profant apologizes to us from 19.50 until the end of the day for health reasons and Mr Vymazal from 19.45 until the end of today's day for family reasons. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I just have a comment on Mr Rais, by your means. First of all, when you argue with the records here, Mr. Congressman, first of all, I want to remind you that the revenue from this tax is one percent of the revenue from the state budget. That would be a really expensive cadastral record. And the second thing I must remind you is that tomorrow we will be discussing the second reading of a tax package in which your government proposes doubling charges for, for example, a deposit proposal, etc. Unfortunately, this package - and I will say it tomorrow - does not quantify the very costs of keeping records and so on. So, on the one hand, we have to argue: we have to maintain this tax because we need to have money to register. On the other hand, because we need money to keep records, the government is proposing an increase in the doubling of charges. So I don't understand. Either they're either paying one or they're paying the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u15	I also thank Mr Votava, who also made a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am not in favour of removing this tax from our tax system. Yes, 13 billion is 13 billion, that's right. But I want to respond to my honored colleague on the budget committee, Professor Rais. He said it didn't increase the value of the property. Sure, it increases the value of the property, of course. The four percent, I hear from the right side that it's an immoral tax. So speaking of immorality, I wouldn't say that the tax is immoral, but I think it's immoral that the acquirer pays it. I acted against it last term because I'm buying something, and I still have four percent to pay for it. I think the way it was originally, when it was the real estate transfer tax, and the person who was selling, of course, had income, so he paid the 3%, then it went up to four percent. So if we're talking, colleagues, about immorality, I can see that's what the buyer is doing. And that it's costing him the price of the property.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u17	Thank you. And now we will continue the general debate. Mrs Kovářová is the first to sign in, Mr Feri will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about abolishing the property acquisition tax. And I say yes, let's do it! What are we waiting for? By abolishing the property acquisition tax, we will do what almost every MP promises before the elections. Specifically, we'll lower taxes, and if we do, we'll leave some money in the people's purses. The real estate tax is a bit of an outrage. We are giving money that has already been taxed on income taxes. And basically - even if my colleague Rais, through Mr President, does not agree with me - we are making real estate more expensive. Today, when people, and especially young people, have a problem with the availability of their own housing and mortgages, the tax on the acquisition of property does not help them very much, or vice versa. Consider such an example: if someone buys an apartment or a house worth CZK 5 million, the tax is CZK 200,000. And that amount has to be drawn out of its own pocket in cash because this tax is not subject to a mortgage loan. At present, when stricter rules are set for granting loans and a citizen must have saved 20 percent of the total value of the property, this together makes a really nice amount of money. A colleague named Onderka mentioned that the abolition of the property acquisition tax means minus 13.5 billion to the state budget. There's another way to think about it. The fact that the acquirer pays the property acquisition tax means minus 13.5 billion just for taxpayers out of their own pocket. And so I ask, do we not want to make it easier for people to access their own housing and cancel the real estate tax? And at the same time, I'm going to say, "Yes, we do! So the Mayors and Independents Club will support the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u19	Thank you, too. Let me introduce you to another apology. Mrs Kozlová apologizes to us between 7:45 and 21:00 for family reasons. And now, please, another one entered into the debate, which is Mr Feri, will be prepared by Mr Martínek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government present, I do not really want to delay, but as a Prague MP, I will not be allowed to speak on this point. [[no]] Because Prague's real estate prices are the most flagrant. And Prague is an electoral region where the prices of older flats, these are the apartments that are not exempt under the applicable law, have increased by up to 100% in five years. And at the same time, I'm also a young man, 23 years old, and now I'm gonna be a statesman, and now my perspective, the perspective of my friends, my college colleagues, that one day we're gonna be able to afford some ownership housing, some apartment of my own, isn't, let's just say, bright. I don't really think we're gonna be able to do this. You may object to an MP's salary, but that's not forever. Which is why I'd like to put in a good word for accepting the Senate proposal. Let's not really think about it abstractly, it's some four percent that fly in the air, but let's count on the specific amount and imagine under what the young family can afford. That means 200,000, 250,000, 300,000, it can be a new bathroom, renovated, can be a new kitchen, can be a child, a student who is sent to a foreign study stay. It may even be the vacation, but it's better than the four percent taking the state. Personally, I and our MP will follow a simple instruction that the best tax is the one that is not. Thanks. And we'll support the Senate version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u21	Thank you and please Mr Martínek. Mr. Skopeček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, as the pirát, we have submitted a House press 293, which, with the amendments made, is intended to introduce a reduced 2% rate for the value of the property up to CZK 4 million and a zero rate up to CZK 2 million for persons who purchase the property for their own housing. The proposal is inspired by the legislation in force, for example. in Great Britain, Finland and other countries of the European Union. According to our estimates, this proposal would have a better effect on the average price of real estate for most buyers, i.e. citizens of the Czech Republic, and, of course, significantly lower budgetary impacts. However, because the government coalition is adversely opposed to our proposal, we have decided to support the Senate proposal in order to promote ownership housing, the mobility of people of all ages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u23	I also thank and please Mr Skopeček, he is present, and Mr Munzar will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u24	Thank you for your attention. I'm having a little cold, so very briefly. We have the opportunity to lower the price of housing that is enormously expensive. Four percent must be extra today. I think that's the next step that complicates their journey to their own home. You know we've been discussing the housing crisis for a long time. If you look at the statistics, some have been saying that flat prices have increased by 50 percent since 2010. Even from this increase, of course, the state draws higher income from VAT. The high price growth is, of course, due to the lack of housing supply in the real estate market, which is a long-term task for the state to liberalize the regulation of construction and spatial planning, but, of course, it is also due to the cheap money policy of the central bank, which created the mortgage boom, which once again led to higher demand and thus to price growth. This really enormous price growth means that fewer and fewer people are getting a chance to get their own housing, and it doesn't make life any more difficult for those who want to get their own housing, of course, but it also makes rental housing more expensive. As I said before, the task on the part of the state is to reduce the regulation of construction, but this is a long-term task. We see that, in this sense, the government is not up to number one and that it will certainly take some time. However, people want to buy housing today, and they don't want to wait for the government to do their homework. About the mortgage boom. Of course, the central bank responded to it, and in my opinion, we will be discussing this shortly, that it actually tightens people's access to mortgages, there are limits. Today, people will no longer reach a 100% or 90% mortgage, but there is still growing the necessary share of their own resources that citizens must have in advance to purchase the mortgage. This regulation plus the enormous increase in property prices leads to the fact that, in short, fewer and fewer middle-class people can afford their own housing. At such a time, we have a very simple tool to at least partially make this situation - a bad situation - easier for people. Only by one vote can we get rid of the citizens' obligation to pay four percent in the acquisition of their own property. The four percent must be issued in addition to the price of real estate. Consider that when they ask for the mortgage, they must have their own source, which will prove to the bank that they will give the mortgage at 60 percent, but, of course, they must have their own source for the tax, because, of course, the real estate tax will not give them a mortgage. So we, next to the central bank, are burdening our fellow citizens. They need to have a greater share of their own resources than the central bank requires, in a situation where each koruna is good for them when they purchase their own property, so we force them to have an even greater share of their own resources, because they still have to pay the real estate tax. The property acquisition tax does not constitute a dominant source of income for the state budget, it is around 13 billion. I will just add that according to the draft state budget, the Ministry of Finance is counting on the increase in collection, with the growth of the revenue side of the budget by more than 100 billion extra year on year. And at a time when the government is supposed to have 100 billion extra resources available per year, we are not able to make things easier for those who want to get their own housing. So I'm asking you all too much to take up the debates we're having here about the housing crisis, seriously, the housing crisis exists, we're not going to solve the housing crisis easily, so the government would have to step up and start doing something about building legislation so as to increase the housing supply. It's the only way to bring this enormous price increase back to a normal level in recent years. However, we have a chance very quickly to take one measure, which we will at least partially tape the patch, which we will at least partially make available in this poor housing situation, ownership housing, and this measure is the abolition of property acquisition tax, which, as I say again, will not have any fatal impact on the state budget, but will help people who want to get their own housing very much. Please, let's help people who want to get their own place. They don't have enough resources for him today. Let us help them to improve their situation and more families, more young people could get their own housing. I appeal to you to go out to young families and people who are responsible for getting their own housing, to meet them and to abolish this tax. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u25	Thank you, too, and now Vice-President Okamura has given me priority rights, so Mr Munzar will have to endure a little longer. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a motion to cancel the property acquisition tax, so I'll give the SPD's position. The SPD has long advocated the abolition of property acquisition tax. In the long run, we say that it is not logical for the state to tax citizens already once taxed money, because real estate is bought with legal, taxed money. I think that even in today's situation, when overpriced properties and they are not available, they are not available to most citizens of the Czech Republic, whether they are young families, whether they are seniors or whether they are middle-aged families, the properties have simply grown incredibly. We hear from the government some empty floscules that they'd like to do, how they'd like to promote some housing. Well, here we have a system step. This is really a systemic step. Let's discount the properties by canceling the property acquisition tax. So the SPD movement is clear on this, we've been promoting it for a long time. And I must say, then, that I will be unpleasantly surprised if this is the other way around. This is where the government MPs say it's gonna be some kind of blackout. First of all, the blackout isn't going to be big, and second of all -- and we're repeating it over and over again -- today we had a press conference at the SPD, when on eleven specific points we've discussed the monstrous welfare system that's inadaptable, we've discussed exactly what's going to be, where and how it's done, it's only here that we can save so that we cancel this system, we're going to get the benefits so that they don't get the inadaptables, and we're going to regroup the money towards the proper and decent ones. It is quite simple, it is only about the priorities of the government of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement. Nothing else. Money is. It wouldn't be a budget blackout. And yet it will have a synergy effect that those who are skilled and notoriously not working will force anyone who wants something from the state to engage in a positive way in the system. So I say for us - there are a lot more options, of course, following the pattern of France, you can withdraw the troops from Afghanistan, we can abolish the harmful and failed inclusion in education, there are a number of issues where huge money can be saved. And on purpose, I say this in the sense that these are things that are not even introduced in other democratic countries or that they do not work there, so we can do without them, too. So back to the tax, on the subject. We will vote for the abolition of property acquisition tax and I have explained why and I am curious to see how other political parties will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u27	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank the Senate for the wise decision, for presenting us with this proposal to abolish the property acquisition tax. The Senate proposal is similar to the one I presented for the ODS in the first readings here in the House, and I would also like to thank the pirate party for changing her mind and, unlike my previous vote, support the abolition of this tax. [[20.10 hours]] From my point of view, and I will use today's situation to appeal to you, colleagues in particular from the ANO movement, but also from social democracy and KSČM to support the abolition of this tax, because it is indeed the most absurd tax of our entire tax system. By paying this tax exclusively to the buyer as of November 2016, this tax has lost all the remains of some logic. Because what is it today, this tax, other than the penalty and the penalty for wanting to buy property on the territory of our state, from once taxed money? The only justification of government and government Members for this tax is government revenue, which is less than 1% of total revenue, and that is a damn small reason. I see the opinion of the Minister of Finance, who is the guardian of the state register, but I certainly cannot agree with him because I think that humiliating fiscal policy, economics and the role of the Ministry of Finance only on the accounting aspect of the state budget revenue and resigning from consideration, on the impact on the population's living standards, is not the right approach to managing state finances and fiscal policies, not if money from the economy is not lost. They will not disappear, our citizens will only use them in a different way, which will positively reflect on other revenues of the state budget. We are in a situation that the government is counting on a year-on-year increase in all state budget revenues by 112 billion in 2020. CZK, which is about ten times more year-on-year than expected income from this tax. It's like someone's salary went up 11,000. CZK 1,200, 1,300 crowns for his child, who would need this money. This tax does not have any regulatory or economic character. Only 4 percent more expensive is the acquisition of own housing. We all know that there has been a significant increase in property prices in recent years not only in the capital but also in the regions. Prices are rising so that flats in large cities cease to be available for the middle class. For your idea, the average Čech makes eight years and nine months for the average older apartment 3+1, and it should not even buy a bagel, Pražan even fourteen years and eleven months. The offer of flats is limping behind the demand for housing, which, of course, pushes prices up, and we can talk about where the policy of blocking private construction projects or the excessive complexity of building law has led us. But back to this tax. Imagine that people are buying an apartment for a mortgage, and because mortgage conditions are tightening and participation increases, especially for young people, it is difficult to save 20 to 25 per cent on mortgage participation and another 4 per cent on tax. From the apartment that costs 3 million today, this tax is 120 thousand today. Crowns. For a young family, this means several months' income, and it can be used more effectively, for example, for the reconstruction of the apartment, for the purchase of a kitchen line and so on. Today, we do not need further regulation of demand in the form of this tax. But any regulation of demand does not reduce the need for people to live in, it merely shifts this need from ownership to rental housing, which we can now verify for the increase in rental housing prices. Instead of investing in their housing, young people will have to pay for borrowing foreign real estate, which, of course, narrows their own savings to participation and tax. On the other hand, they invest in their own housing when they buy the apartment, and when it is the worst, they can sell the property. That is why we should support citizens' own efforts to have their own responsibilities, not to put these people under the bus, and at the same time punish them for wanting to buy ownership, with really poor justification that the state would lose less than a percentage of the revenue from the state budget. So I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will reconsider your position and help the middle class and all the young people to abolish this tax and make their own housing less profitable by 4%. It's the least we can do for them, and it's a quick and immediate solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u29	Thank you, too. Minister Schillerová came forward with the right of priority, but before that, she will be given the floor on a factual point by Mr Votava. A real point comes first. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u30	Just a quick note. I said in my previous entry that I was not in favour of abolishing this tax. In general, this tax is in various forms also in the European Union. I have also advocated one thing last term, which is now, of course, five minutes past 12, but which may have been worth considering. Those 13 billion. goes into the state budget. In many countries of the European Union, it is the case that the state participates, or, for example, the municipality receives a share. The property tax goes all the way to the village. I don't see why part of this tax collection couldn't go to the municipalities, for example, 50-50. But like I said, it's too late to say that now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u31	Thank you, and please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u32	Thank you. I will leave that last remark to Mr Votava without comment. There's a lot going on here, I'll try to sum up. I, of course, have proactively supported Mr Rais's proposal, so I will not comment on this. It is a phenomenon that has reappeared, which did not exist at the time when the Senate took action on the acquisition tax, at that time from the transfer, today from the acquisition of real estate. There were no apartments in family houses. That was a new phenomenon, and that's why I think it's time for the liberation, as he read it, and, of course, the Treasury worked on it. The proposal has already been made by an ANO member in the previous parliamentary term, but it has not come up. So I'm going to comment on the Senate proposal, that is to cancel the acquisition tax. I have one thing to say. There's been a lot of criticism. It's 13.5 billion. from the state budget, that's not enough. And I just don't think that's how you cut a government budget with a salami method. If this is not included in a specific reform, where the abolition of a number of exceptions, even related to housing, would be added, we have a whole range of deductible items that only relieve certain groups, and other groups will pay if it were introduced into such a complex of such adjustments, it would be for discussion, but not by this salami method, when the Senate essentially proposes to abolish the tax. And for your information, there were a number of historical moments when this tax could be abolished. There were various governments, different parliaments - and do you know when this tax last increased from 3% to 4% today? By law 500/2012. You know who was in power. This means that, at a time when right-wing governments are in power, they are increasing this tax, and at a time when they are sitting in opposition benches, they are cutting off the state budget and proposing the abolition of this tax. That's just my short drawer. There was another criticism that concerns the fact that we have problems with the housing market. I would like to remind you that these days, the European Systemic Risk Board issued warnings on the risks associated with the residential property market, where it actually admits that there is a risk that results from overestimate real estate prices because they are insufficient. Given the increase in average wages, we do not see such a risk, but one of the critical remarks made by this board is that free credit standards are, in the background, currently available and used, so-called non-binding credit instruments. This means that basically we have some sort of standard set by the Czech National Bank, and Mr Skopeček spoke about it, and the government has approved this amendment, which was from the joint pen of the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank, she is already lying around waiting to be put on the agenda of the day, and I believe that it will be supported because it is precisely that we will get into the law these credit indicators set by the Czech National Bank, so I think we will set clear criteria because it is not just about banking houses, I dare say that they are in most cases following the recommendations of the Czech National Bank, but it is a whole series of non-bank institutions that also provide loans. And from abroad, we have signals that this is not a good way. So I believe there will be room for discussion and support for this proposal. [[20.20 hours]] Then there was criticism about the fact that the buyer is the taxpayer of this tax, which was approved by the Chamber of Deputies during the previous period, I think. On the contrary, I personally think that it simplified the administration of this tax, because until then we had a situation where the taxpayer was the seller and the buyer was in the position of guarantor, and very often, I know from his practice, the taxpayer simply failed to fulfil this tax obligation, the guarantor took over the guarantor's call and it was a very complicated administration that was thus removed. I think it's possible, even there may be an agreement today. So on this side, the law was made transparent. And a building trial. Secretary Dostálová is sitting here. You know that the government has approved the substantive intention of the new construction law. I think that some opposition Members are also working on digitalisation with the Ministry of Regional Development. It is an historic step where we have actually taken a fundamental step first to simplify the construction process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u33	Thank you, too. I have two factual points. First Mr Munzar, then Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary said quite a lot here. There are some things I'm going to say. I just like the argument most, you didn't cancel it, so we transferred the tax burden from what he's selling, which means he's getting the money from the property, to whoever's buying it, which means he's got to make it. That's what you set up in 2016. And I like the argument, you guys didn't cancel it, and that's why we're not canceling it either. [[Reactions from YES benches: Increased. They did.]] I'd like to finish this without shouting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u35	Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u36	As far as the salami method is concerned, Madam Secretary, it surprises me, because this is how we can mark everything. We can say that 6 billion of the state budget is paid for fare discounts, which is half the revenue from this tax. And we can also mark the tax package that we will discuss tomorrow. Anyway, it only proves what the secretary here said that the tax administration had simplified. So to argue with this and actually to make the tax pay instead of the person who gets the money from the sale of the property, the person who has to buy it and who has to earn it really confirms the words that I said here in my speech that the current management of the Ministry of Finance approaches the state budget not in terms of fiscal policy, not in terms of population needs and standard of living, but only in terms of accounting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u37	Thank you for your time, and please, Mr Skopeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u38	Thank you for the floor. I also wanted to respond to the Minister and, in particular, to the complaint to cut the budget. Ironically, I agree with her. I also think that the budget is not to be cut. But if anything was a demonstration of budget cuts, it was a discount on the fare for pupils and seniors regardless of their income situation. That was a budget cut. And that's what you voted for because you thought it would bring you cheap political points. The moment you can make housing less accessible to an increasingly large group of people today, you'd rather keep the money so you can come up with some other budget cuts on the spending side again so you can get more votes. So, please, let's use the argument fair. When you talk about cutting the budget, remember, for example, the fare discounts. It's simply simple, my fellow colleagues. Today you have a chance in a housing crisis with housing prices that have driven the housing crisis disproportionately up, so at least in part you have a chance to relieve people and make housing accessible to them. You either act by making it available to them, or you say that today people are not entitled to their own housing. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u39	Thank you. I have been asked by Mr Rais. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u40	I have just one small reminder towards Mr Munzar, namely that in the vicinity of us, in neighbouring states such as Germany, Austria, Poland and so on, this property acquisition tax is also being paid. In Germany, it's up to 6.5 percent. In Austria, this is 3,5 percent. So it's just a reaction to what he said here a while ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u41	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Nwelati also signed up for us. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for speaking once more, but a few responses to what has been said here. That's what I said in the opening word that I had here. And I'm glad that one of you mentioned that we have to realize what money it is. 13.5 billion, that's the money that comes into the budget from the people who made that money, they made a proper profit, they properly taxed it, they decided to buy their own housing instead of spending it on something else, maybe less beneficial, and we're going to take that money from them into the state budget. That's about how high it is. I must also insist here that the only reason why this tax is levied is because of the revenue from the state budget. There's no other reason. And the argument that it is necessary to finance the cadastral authorities, it has also practically been said here, I think Mrs Kovářová said it here, or Mr Munzar, by your means, both of them mentioned that the charges for enrollment in the cadastral register, that is the financial amount to be paid for the operation of the cadastral authorities. Then it was said that someone questioned that this tax did not increase or cost housing, that what makes housing more expensive is that there is a shortage of flats, etc. It's partly true, but 4 percent simply make the housing more expensive. As has been said here, when you take a mortgage, no one will give you any money to pay for the property acquisition tax. This you must de facto pay from your taxed money which has been taxed on income. I enjoy the fact that everyone in the media is saying how inaccessible housing is, how we all have to take care of it in order to ensure better access for people who want to secure their housing to their apartments. Even some ministries here are making up what subsidies or programs to support those who want to get their own housing, for example by supporting starting apartments etc. Here's your one and only chance. Instead of inventing subsidies, hand out the 13.5 billion, let those people who earned it use it to make their purchase less expensive. That means it saves 4 percent of every purchase of property they buy for housing. So I would ask you once again, really let's go and let the people who made the money, so let's leave them and cancel the tax, which is absolutely pointless and which de facto makes the housing just more expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-24-ps2017-034-05-005-009.u43	Thank you, too. And that is the last application for the debate at the moment. If no one else is reporting, I am done with the debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words from the plaintiff or the senator or the rapporteur. It's not. In that case, we will proceed to the vote under paragraph... Yes, I do, I hear an application for check-out. I'll check you out. Please log in with your cards again. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. [[20.30 hours]] I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending the Senate's legal action No. 340/2013 Coll., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended by Act No. 254/2016 Coll., pursuant to House press 179/6, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 179/7.' I've begun. I don't know if everyone's here yet. So I'll start the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. I mean, who's for senate. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 189, 162 Members and Members were enrolled, for 66, against 79. The motion was denied. So we will vote again, in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. the adoption of the House version. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Please set up the necessary majority. It already is. So I will make a motion for a resolution: the Chamber of Deputies approves a bill amending the Senate's legal provisions No. 340/2013 Coll., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended by Act No. 254/2016 Coll., as amended by the Senate, according to the House press 179/6. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. There are 162 Members and Members in the 190 vote, for 160, against no one. The motion was accepted. So I'm saying that we agreed to the bill and accepted it. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. And we still have some time left, so I'm opening point number
