ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u1	24. Government bill amending Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on the Forests and on the Amendment and Amendment of Certain Acts (Forest Law), as amended /German Press 408/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Allow me to introduce the Government's amendment to Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on the Forests and on the amendment and addition of certain laws, as amended. The Ministry of Agriculture has been asked by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to draw up and submit an amendment to the Forest Law in connection with the current calamity in the woods, by order of the Chamber of Deputies number 305 of 10. 7. 2018 on the implementation of legislative amendments to the effective fight against barkworm or other disasters in forests. The Ministry was also invited to submit a draft amendment to the Forest Law by the resolution of the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic number 45 of 6. 6. 2018. The need for accelerated partial amendment of forest law arises mainly in connection with the extensive calamity that hit the forests of the Czech Republic in a large part of the territory. Experience from recent practice, knowledge of the authorities of state forest management at all levels, including the Czech Environmental Inspection and also interest associations of forest owners, shows clearly that it is in the interests of forests and forestry not to wait for a more comprehensive amendment to forest law. In view of the urgency of the problem, forest law needs to be amended in a partial way to try to eliminate the most pressing problems that practice currently faces. [[9.50 hours]] In particular, the submitted amendment to the Forest Law is intended to clearly lay down the obligations of professional forest farmers whose activities are covered by the State, including the possibility of withdrawing their licence in cases where they do not fulfil their obligations. Professional forest farmers as experts in daily contact with the forest first signal the bark threat and propose measures to deal with the situation. In particular, it is intended to anchor the Institute of Recording of Forest Professional Economists, including the possibility of entrusting the management of this register to the Institute of Forest Economic Treatment as an organizational component of the State. In addition, it is intended to provide for an exemption from the rules for the use of reproductive material in the event of incidents of a type of natural disaster in the range of large-scale calamity. I presume that the bill submitted will be discussed at expert level at the agricultural committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u3	Thank you, too. The rapporteur should now take the floor for the first reading of Mr Karel Tureček, but as far as I know, he is not present, so now the proposal to amend the rapporteur will be made. Please, if it could be loaded. Mr Kott will therefore be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u4	I don't know if I can totally do this, Mr Vice-President, but in agreement with the chairman of the agricultural committee, we are proposing a change to the rapporteur in my person. For first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u5	The rapporteur's change to you, if I've noticed correctly. [[Yes.]] Well, in that case, we'll deal with the vote. Initiating vote. I ask who is the rapporteur to change so that we can continue. Who's against it? Voting number 291. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 139, against no one. The rapporteur has been changed. I therefore ask the rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u6	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, dear Members, honourable Members, the Minister has presented the bill here. I would still dare to poke out, in my opinion, the most important matters. [[The MPs are loud and loud!]] The subject matter of the bill is the response to the urgent problems that forestry practice is currently facing. Since this is indeed a very urgent problem, the bill was therefore submitted outside the Government Legislative Council plan for 2018. The need for the amendment of forest law arises in particular in connection with the extensive barking calamity -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u7	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I can't hear you. I would ask my fellow Members in the Chamber for peace so that those negotiations which do not concern this law may be moved outside the O.R. Thank you. Please, rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In this context, the draft law introduces the following measures: allows an exemption from the rules for the use of reproductive material in the event of an emergency of a type of natural disaster; lay down the obligations of professional forest farmers whose activities are covered by the State and the possibility to withdraw their licences in cases where they fail to fulfil their obligations; establish a register of professional forest farmers and the possibility to entrust the management of this register to the Institute for the Economic Treatment of Forests as an organisational component of the State; establish measures of a general nature by which forest authorities may impose measures, if necessary, in order to protect the forest; the draft law further specifies the specific conditions for granting a licence for the pursuit of professional economic activity, namely the condition of vocational forestry education, following changes in vocational education; Last but not least, the draft law removes the terminological contradictions and specifies the procedures of the forest authorities caused by changes in certain legislation and, above all, the adoption of a new administrative order. The submitted regulation cannot be done without a certain impact on the state budget. The expenditure will cover exclusively the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, from which the costs of the State's activities under the Forest Law are covered. Other public budgets, according to the appellant, will not be affected by the regulation. It is proposed that the proposal should enter into force on the first day of the second calendar month following its publication. The draft amendment is presented at a time when forests in the territory of the Czech Republic are affected by an extremely extensive calamity caused especially by a long-term drought weakening forests that are attacked by pests. It is therefore necessary for forest law to create the prerequisites for managing this situation and to allow for the most effective removal of the consequences. To this end, the amendment to the Act is intended to help with the proposed steps that are essential to the management of the impact that has occurred. For these reasons, I would like to ask you to release the law for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u9	Thank you, too. I have another note here. Czech Interior Minister Jan Hamáček apologizes to us today for working reasons. I am now opening up a debate on this point in which I have Mr Holomčík signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u11	I will ask the House once again for peace. I would like to ask you to move into the foyer with your dealings that do not concern this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the opinion of the pirate party club. We, as the rapporteur has already said, want this bill released for second reading. We want to discuss it quite intensively on the committees, so I would like to propose an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days. So that's a straight line. I have a whole series of questions. I'll save those for the committee, but I think it's important for three things to be said here today. Firstly, this concerns the part of the amendment that addresses the conditions for professional forest farmers. This is where we call it even. We think it's right. It's a little too bad she didn't come a little earlier, but I'd like to point out, through such a thoughtful attempt, one of the things I'd be happy to discuss in detail on the committee. Now a few entry assumptions. When we go back to the inspection of the Czech Environmental Inspection, which took place in the second half of 2017, she actually revealed a number of errors, whether it was an error in the sense of breach of conditions based on paragraph 33 (1) of the Forest Law or paragraph 11 (?) Forest law. It relied on repeated bail, which extended the time before the infected trees got out of the woods, and blamed a number of other things that, according to the new legislation, would most likely lead to the withdrawal of the license. If you look at the website of the Forest of the Czech Republic, they have one for the whole business. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] And a few more numbers. The forests of the Czech Republic manage 48 percent of the area of all forests in our country's property and some more about a quarter of a million hectares of private forests, which is also based on forest law. And there will certainly be a need to see what would have led to this situation if the forests of the Czech Republic had lost their license. If we had de facto half of the forests in the Czech Republic that they would have worked or were actually contrary to the law. I think that's a very big problem that needs to be dealt with in some way. The second thing, and that is the main reason why we want to extend the deadline for committee discussions, concerns the part where the law allows for a limited period of time exemptions from the requirements for the use of reproductive material for artificial forest renewal. We're afraid - and we're going to want this to be explained in some way in detail - we're afraid that we're going to somehow solve the problem with the shins, but we're actually going to have a problem in ten, twenty, thirty years. We're worried about the future stability of the forest, and we're going to ask the Ministry to explain exactly how this is going to work out. And the third thing. As I said, I'm going to save my questions for the committee, so I'm going to ask one question or two questions to the minister, and I hope to get the Minister's attention. Yes? [[He's looking at the Minister.]] Good. Thank you. I would like to ask, and it will be the only thing that I will ask you today, Minister, how do you plan on financing the effects of the cruststorm? Because this is a thing that doesn't end with this election period, but governments will deal with it in other times. So this is important. [[10.00 hours]] And that has one question to do with it. Since I've been in the House, I've been dealing with various sources, from different people and from different organizations with such information that actually what's going on in the woods has been said in recent years, someone has been talking about the period since the transformation of state forests in the 1990s, is some creepy way to privatize state forests, by the way, lucrative parts. I would like to ask the Minister whether he could say his position here on privatising state forests, whether this is being discussed, whether it is being prepared, or what his personal opinion on this matter is. And that's it. I've been informed that I can only request an extension of 20 days, so I'm changing my request for an extension of 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u13	I would like to point out that you may request an extension for 30 days, but the appellant must agree. You're on your own for 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u14	In that case, I'm sorry. The Minister, as the draftsman, agrees, so I am returning to the original proposal for an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u15	Thank you. We will continue with the debate to which Mr Juránek is also signed up. Mr Jurečka will then be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u16	Thank you. First of all, Mr President, fellow Members, I join in discussing this matter for a longer time, and I join in encouraging that we discuss this 30 days longer when the Minister agrees. And I have a pretty serious reason for that. I will speak as a man who has been in the woods since he was little and whose ancestors worked in the woods. I would like to say that no one in the world has a better forest law than we do. Those exceptions, which have forced the present time, are exceptions that we really have to value on pharmacies weights and, of course, they have come out of service. However, I want to say that all the things that are happening in the woods are happening in a longer period of time than we are used to. And here, please, let us take this very seriously. Because the shortest time in the woods is ten years. Please, you've heard it well for ten years. Ten-year forest management plans are also being made on this basis. I think it is very important that we, as the Chamber of Deputies, approach this view. Some five or six years ago, my father showed me how to cut down the trees that his grandfather planted. I would very much like you to actually take it. As the fourth generation, I saw the results of my great-grandfather's work, which, of course, I've never seen in my life. Therefore, I would very much like us to approach these things in this way. I want to say that we are discussing this matter in the context that has yet to arise, and the company has noticed them in great detail, and late, because we, as foresters, have already pointed out this matter at a time when the Šumava matter was being dealt with. And I am very sorry that Šumava's solution is still not complete and that large groups of people who have nothing to do with forestry are talking about it, and that is why those who can, for example, help Šumava best are foresters. I would very much like the foresters to speak to this when discussing this amendment, which is in a hurry for practical reasons, for economic reasons, for reasons of handling the current matter. And here I ask that they be invited to do so, Minister, because here I really want to defend this matter. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop. Very poor hearing!]] I want to point out a specific example. And here, please put it into context, because it concerns the proposed things, such as reproductive material, whether they do or not. Please, the foresters have solved the Ore Mountains business in this republic in the 1980s. I'm proud of it. I've been going there, I've been helping, and I'm happy to go there and find that the Ore Mountains have turned green again. Oh, please, I'm comparing it to Sumava. They looked the same and sometimes worse than Sumava. And please, you can find this matter in all the materials that existed. And I'm saying again, that's where non-standard methods were used. However, the methods are proven by age, because at this point, when we embark, for example, on materials other than those prescribed by law, we must already take advantage of what has been tried. I have a great request that this matter be actually taken into account and that the materials on how the Ore Mountains have been restored be used to address the amendment of this law in the best possible way. Because, of course, the Ministry has its capacity and can also get to these matters in cooperation with universities dealing with forestry, so please do this very much. Because if something has already been tried and at this point it has some 30 years of experience, then we can lean on these experiences when dealing with the situation in individual places. And then I want to stress one more thing. The matter must still be very differentiated in its particular implementation, because there will be a great difference in damage to the space, both in geological state, in the summary of all the issues affecting the forest. And I will only be very happy if it helps us, on the contrary, to take advantage of this situation in order to set the forest recovery in the context of future damage as best as possible. And please, I'm really asking the D.O.D. to take into account the experience there. We woodsmen are very silent because take it that if you plant something, you will never get results, unlike farmers who will find out very soon whether it worked out well or not. We, as foresters and foresters, have one certainty that we bet things not for our children, but we do it for future generations. So this is my request. Otherwise, I am glad that the deadline has shifted by 30 days, and thank you for that to the Minister. I assure you that those ten days certainly do not play a negative but positive role in the matter of forest renewal, so that we can follow up on all the experiences that are positive in this area. Thank you for listening to me. I really ask you one thing: We really do not think that these measures will prevent the spread of barking by waving a magic wand. It's not like that. But it is a matter that will greatly help us to take concrete steps in the forest. I am convinced that this will lead to action in the forestry direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u17	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. I thank Mr Juránek. We will continue with the open debate by speaking to Mr Marian Jurečka. Mrs Jana Krutáková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u18	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, let me also comment on this amendment to the Forest Act or the Forest Law, as you wish. Of course, I am glad that this government amendment, respectively from the Ministry of Agriculture workshop, arrived at the Chamber of Deputies, because we talked about the necessity of this amendment in the second half of 2017, when we saw that the calamity in the woods was dramatically deteriorating. This contributed not only to the extremely warm, hot weather, but also to a few windstorms that appeared in 2016, 2017 and we were actually witnessing these other moments that aggravate the catastrophic situation, even last week in the territory of the Czech Republic. [[10.10 hours]] The fact that this amendment here in some of its measures seeks to clarify some interpretation terms, to better define the care of a forest farmer, to address the issue of territorialisation and the like is fine. But I do think that unfortunately, even this amendment will not dramatically push us to solve the whole problem that we, as citizens of the Czech Republic, are dealing with today. I have to look back at April last year, when Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and the Minister of the Environment had a press conference at the Ministry of Agriculture with the then Minister of Agriculture Milek and they said how badly we did everything until then and how the Prime Minister would take matters into his own hands and how he would actively handle it and how he could change everything in a short time, how it would be an action. And when I look at the results, in 2015, 2016, the volume of the calamari mining was 2 and 4 million cc's. In 2017, it was 5.4 million ccs of muddy wood. And in 2018, we're already somewhere above 10, maybe 15 million cc's. The numbers aren't quite accurate yet, but it's obvious that in 2018, the situation has doubled, and we don't expect it to be better in 2019. I am only saying this because I want to be here to look back on Mr. Prime Minister's remarks, who said how neglected we were with Mr. CEO Szórád and so on and so on, and also because it turns out that, in fact, the instruments that we have in order to change such a great extent in a short time, in order to manage, in principle, power is not in human hands and power, because if we have such extremely hot and dry years, then nature is simply winning over us, whether we like it or not. However, the tools we could help with, there are others. And now I have a little bit of a question for the Minister of Agriculture, or - now Minister Dostálová from the MMR has been here, now she has left, but also for her, how could they help more lighten not only the owners of the forest, but also those affected by the catastrophic situation, which are also cities and municipalities. We know that there has been a complete notification, which I have initiated in my time, so that, within this notification, what we have been allowing farmers here for several years, where, in the event of a crisis situation, we can help farmers financially in practically dry years with a certain compensation that we have not identified. Now it's also notified for the forestry sector. Now, of course, it is important that the government gives Minister Toman the required CZK 3 billion so that these funds can, above all, travel to those small and medium-sized owners, because today's calamity situation is a de facto net loss, they have to pay with their funds. So it would be good if it were also said here whether the funds will be, when they will be and when they can arrive directly at the forest owners. Then, of course, there's a big problem, so since the calamari wood is already mined, since the forest owner is already embarking on foresting, if he already has planting material, there's damage to the animals. And I would like to ask the Minister whether the ambition of the Ministry of Agriculture is to deal with the very issue of animal damage, because I can imagine that this amendment, too, could be adapted to this issue in the framework of the amendments, so that we can take at least some small measures that could eliminate more the damage caused by the animals and, above all, the growths that are being renewed. So that's my next question. Then we know that it is a big problem to cope with the situation because of the lack of workers. In the agricultural sector, we have also approved an extraordinary regime for recruitment of workers from Ukraine for agriculture, forestry and food industry. Unfortunately, I just feel that it is still not possible to get more to the Czech Republic thanks to the low activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior of these workers. When I look at the situation on the labour market in Poland, it is simply obvious that the Polish Government is far more progressive, far more flexible in order to get these workers from Ukraine into the Polish labour market. We desperately need this today, because it is a problem for virtually all other forest owners - municipalities, cities, churches, individuals - that it is simply a problem that those legal deadlines because they are not people, they do not have the capacity to prosecute. Then I had another question about how else this situation could be supported. In the past, for example, we have been talking about a reduction in VAT. I have tabled such an amendment to Parliament's press 205, to the EET, where I propose in my amendment to reduce VAT to construction wood, firewood, wood pellets, so that we can increase the possibility of processing and use of calamity wood in the Czech Republic. I think that it would still be worth working on some other things that could increase the demand for timber on the domestic market, for example by changing legislation in the field of construction, so that renewable materials such as wood are more used in our construction industry, so that the Ministry of Industry and Trade can take on this subject more and work with it more. Just as it is a great potential for the Ministry of Industry and Trade - and we asked for it two years ago - to change the support for burning wood chips temporarily now at a time of calamity, so as to help with the timber market and with the disposal of this very poor wood, which could be so operationally resolved. And here I am not calling for this support to be any higher in the long run, but now in this dire situation, for example, in the next two or three years, if the Ministry of Industry and Trade were to take up this matter, it would certainly help the entire wood market sector and forest owners significantly. So it's more of an appeal to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, or the Minister, if he comments on how the Ministry of Industry and Trade responds to this, whether or not he is preparing any change in this rate. Perhaps, in conclusion, I will just sum up when I have sometimes heard the criticism that we neglected the forestry sector during my work at the Ministry of Agriculture, so I will just remind some things that have changed in terms of financing and helping forest owners. So after some regions practically stopped paying their contributions to forest management, we took this subsidy title back to the Ministry of Agriculture. About CZK 350 million each year, a transparent, fair approach began to be redistributed to forest owners regardless of who owns the forest and what legal personality it has. We are also here more than three years ago within the so-called. Green diesel has allowed the refund of the excise duty on green diesel to be drawn by operators who work in the forestry sector that do business and do work in the forest. It is roughly 240 million crowns that remain in this sector in this way. So in these two measures alone, it was 0.6 billion crowns a year that went into the forestry sector. But it's obvious that it's not enough. I think it would be worth considering in the future how to approach forest owners, when we see today that they are in a situation where they have a forest, they do not have to bring economic return for decades. And I think it would be worth taking a look at the principle that the state, if it is interested in maintaining a quality environment here, have biodiversity, have forests here in good shape, so that it should change its philosophy of view of forest owners, for example in the field of tax laws, in the area of real estate tax, but perhaps also targeted support for these owners to keep the forest as fit as possible for the environment, but at the same time they are not in such a difficult situation where their activities can be loss-making, so that the state simply gives a guarantee that the forest, having it in good shape, is not only interested in the owner, but also in the interest of the State, but at the same time we ensure that this owner, who is doing this also for the whole wide public interest, so that it has a clear that financially, economically it will not be exhausted, will not be a loss to him. So that's a few of my observations on this area. I have also asked a few questions or suggestions here, and I will be happy if the Minister or possibly someone else from the government can do it - I have been here addressing the Ministry of Regional Development because, above all, the cities and municipalities are struggling with repairing communications after the calamity mining. And I, more than three years ago at the Department of Agriculture, set up a grant title for the restoration of small cultural heritage in the countryside, which was later extended by the possibility of investing in field trips. Today this subsidy title was narrowed down with the argument that, for example, the Ministry of Regional Development has this issue and that it will implement it. So I would like to see Minister Šlechtová face up to this with her resort in order to comply with the appeals that are here from cities, municipalities and the Ministry of Agriculture, and to allocate funds to this. Because it is not fair to municipalities and cities that, when large-scale calamity mining takes place on their territory, so that when they want to invest in these roads, they want to correct them so that they are well usable so that they do not have the funds and support from the State. [[Attention, Mr. Whitebread.]] Sorry, I said supposedly Minister Šlechtová - I am deeply sorry about the former Minister of Šlechtová. I hereby appeal to Minister Dostálová. Thanks for the heads-up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u19	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. Now, Mrs Jana Krutáková. Mr. Zahradník will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. Allow me to join my two previous speakers, who were happy to say that the amendment to the Forest Law has just appeared on our table. I, too, welcome this amendment, in particular the provisions which concern and give an exhaustive description of the obligations of professional forest farmers. However, I have to say that I have some reservations about these expert forest farmers, and I also have reservations on points relating to the obligations of forest owners. That is why, at second reading, I will put forward amendments that will address this issue. Otherwise, I must say that I also welcome the fact that the Minister has allowed us to extend the deadline for discussing this draft amendment to the Forest Law. And on behalf of the Mayors and Independents Club, at first reading, I am expressing my support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u21	Thank you, Mrs Jana Krutáková. Now, Mr Jan Zahradník, who is enrolled in the debate. I don't have another application yet. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u22	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, Minister, I would first mention what my previous speaker Stanislav Juránek reminded me of, the word taken by a forest expert. I was pleased that he also mentioned the situation in Sumava. The situation of forests of special destination, forests that are in the national park and which bear a huge tax for this classification. They dry out, have been decimated for many years by crusty calamitys, and the hope of restoring them is problematic. Fans without intervention say that the forests themselves are being restored. That where there used to be a green spruce forest and where there are only crusty land today, a new forest grows. Other experts, equally qualified, say that the forest will not be promising, that it will not have the desired permanence and durability, that it will again only be renewed the same genetic material, which has actually grown twice in Sumava and has been decimated by natural enemies. I know I'm probably going back to those painful things from the last term when the Nature Conservation Act was discussed here, which made it possible to have no interference in Sumava. At the time I tried very hard not to, but the legal obligation to have an over-half majority in the territory of the national parks without intervention was not averted. The current resonation, which takes place on the territory of the Šumava National Park, is directed either way towards the over-half non-image. Twenty-seven percent natural zone, 23.9 percent nature zone close, while the principles of national park care are not known. So it won't be clear how he'll be able to take care of these forests. There is also a problematic question of the restoration of the forest, the forestation. I don't think nature itself will provide a good new forest. And forestation is denied by the administration of the Šumava National Park. And yesterday's interview with Minister Brabec, I mentioned that the second largest owner - Military Forests and Farms - intends to forest significantly. He's got 23 miles ready. seedlings. That's 15 miles. deciduous tree seedlings. In my opinion, it is a model for other state owners. The third owner in the order of size, the Šumava National Park Administration, however, does not intend to follow his pattern and forest to the extent that would be necessary, will probably not. That's my reminder of the previous speakers. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. We also have a number of private owners in addition to the state owners. They were mentioned by colleague Jurečka as people who care about the forest and need to be sure that their care, which is unprofitable at the moment, does not bring yields, will be appreciated by the state. I would like to mention one technical thing. In exceptional circumstances, the Forest Administration Authority may adopt measures of a general nature which may impose a number of matters to remedy the particular emergency. Sometimes, however, these measures may be carried out in the interests of another entity or in the interests of another entity other than the owner of the forest itself. In this case, however, it is necessary to talk about who will bear the costs of fulfilling this measure of a general nature. And here I think there's plenty of time for this thing to be rethinked at second reading and, if necessary, the amendment was given to these private owners who represent SVOL, the Association of Municipal and Private Forest Owners, to ensure that the measures would not be even more anti-economic interests. And then one last thing I'd like to mention. We may have seen hundreds of young people gather in Malostranské náměstí, students who are holding their strike following the call of a Swedish student who has not been attending school on Friday for many months instead of demonstrating. So they also didn't go to school today, they skipped school, they went to Malostranské náměstí to demonstrate for the climate, for more attention to climate protection. My fellow pirates immediately made an effective suggestion to include the Government's Climate Change Report. It was vetoed by our colleagues. Actually, I wouldn't object to discussing it. I even support that, if necessary, this item should be included in the House's meeting so that we can discuss it again here. [[Ambassador Faltynek from the bench: It is already included!]] Is it in yet? Excellent! Mr President, thank you for your reminder. So I'll be happy to discuss this, too. Those students are demonstrating there. Now they may go somewhere in Prague, then come back here, praise each other and share their views in speeches. [[10.30 hours]] The Swiss Institute of Zurich ETH has been monitoring the land where today is forestless and where the forest used to be - and we also have many - and concluded that if 1.2 trillion trees were planted, and technically possible, it would be naturally possible to help fight carbon dioxide emissions for the next ten years. The absorption capacity of trees would help in the fight against CO2 emissions - what is actually the main objective of those fighters against climate change. I might have a tip for those students who are there to demonstrate whether they would rather not go in their spare time, not at the expense of schooling and self-education, whether they would be able to help plant these trees, perhaps fighting climate change more effectively than this demonstration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u23	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. I have one factual point here and another proper application for the debate. Before František Vácha comes to a point of fact, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 12.20 to 14.00 pm, Mr Julius Špičák. Now you have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to set the record straight - Mr Zahradník said here that by planting the trees we will reduce the carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere. So it doesn't look like the woods have the absorption capacity. It's not like that. The expenditure and intake of carbon dioxide in the forest is virtually zero. The point is, when the forest comes out, there are microorganisms in the soil that process organic matter and produce CO2. That means if you have a forest somewhere, it won't absorb CO2, extra from the atmosphere. You have land in that forest where there are microorganisms that make up CO2, and that CO2 then process the trees. So it's not that if you plant a forest, you're going to help it absorb extra CO2 from the atmosphere. It's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Martinů. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u26	Good day, my dear colleagues, and allow me to take a short look at the great tragedy of drying our woods. I think there's only one reason. The water's missing, and the water's still going to be missing. In the 1970s, research took place in five places in Europe in order to find out how much 80-year-old spruce crop takes out in a year of water, what water demands it has on water. It was found in two places in Germany, in two places in the Czech Republic and in one place in Slovakia that the 80-year-old spruce crop requires it to prosper, in about 600 millimeters of water per year. Six hundred millimeters of water, I repeat! Now take the rain. We know that the average rainfall in our country is 680 millimeters of water, so we can say that roughly on half the territory, when it rains normally, when it rains 100 percent, it rains about 600 millimeters of water. It's raining considerably less last year and the last few years. I remember last year's visit with the agricultural committee in Prostějov, where we were put on a plane, and we flew over the Region of Vysočina, Telčí, Třebíčí and we saw the destruction. But I remember when we were waiting for the plane, the management of the woods gave us a very progressive and modern technique that accompanied us, and I asked him a few questions. And I asked him how high the area was, then further, how much rain it was when it rained, and now listen: When it rained, and last year it rained about 60 percent, so in the Highlands it rains about 550-580 mm of water, that's 100 percent of the rainfall. And I asked him another question, does he know how much that 80-year-old spruce crop requires in a year of water? And I've been amazed, and I've asked that question in my life about 500 times, and none of them have answered it. This technician, I had to bow to him, he knew, and he didn't answer me 600 millimeters, but he answered me even 700 millimeters. And now I'm asking you all how logical it is when we've been betting 200 years, in our forestry, we've planted spruce crops in areas where when it rains, it rains 550 millimeters of water, and we know that spruce requires 600-700 millimeters of water. What we can't blame today is that the spruce just doesn't have the water and they're drying out. We've been driving water out of the country for 100 years. We know that we have exported at least 1.5 million hectares of originally wet grass, we have expelled the water through drains and deep troughs, we have destroyed most of the troughs of originally meandering flows, so we are driving out the water, we are driving it out, and on the other hand we have increased the enormous intensity of agricultural production. It's not a 20-mile production anymore, it's a 100-mile production. So we're constantly running low on water, and we've put a lot less and less water on it, and we've put a lot more agricultural production and probably even forest production on it. According to all the facts available, if we look at the history of our forests, maybe some 250 years ago, so the available information confirms that around 1750 we had a million hundred thousand hectares of forest registered in cadastral books. Then came the government of Marie Terezie, who very much supported it. At the end of the 19th century it was already a million nine hundred thousand hectares of forest and currently in cadastral books, official forest land, we have two million seven hundred thousand hectares of forest, but, according to the latest findings, from the 1950s after the end of World War II, another 418 thousand hectares of forest grew either arbitraryly or black on non-forest cultures. So today we can say that we have more than three million hectares of forest, that is forty percent of our country's forest, and according to all the information available, we have increased the volume - not only the area, but also the volume - of forest matter per billion cc, which, of course, is all about water. Now, take the agriculture with you. And I'm gonna repeat it again. On my next visit to the Agricultural Committee in Ruzyn last year, I was interested in the results of these scientists, and I have to repeat that I was impressed by two findings, which is to dry the landscape because of the deep orb because we are actually going to throw the last remnants of government up and in a moment we have them in the fumes. And then that scientist, when I asked him a question, that scientist, that it's been bothering me for many years, that I'm confused, that we've been taught for generations, that the woods are holding water, and today we see the national tragedy of the woods drying up. He didn't even let me finish, and he came at me with the question of whether I know how much water from what comes to 100 percent as if in the form of rain and snow, which is about 98 percent of the water we have as the Czech Republic, how much water doesn't fall through the treetops. I was completely ashamed. I've never heard such a question in school, in television debates, in professional debates, so I started to think of how much I would answer. He didn't let me guess, and he told me it was up to 40 percent or more. So if we look and calculate our territory, we take the area of the Czech Republic and take the average precipitation in the Republic 680 millimeters per year, we find that when it rains 100 percent, it attacks 55 billion in the Czech Republic. Cabs of water. Fifty-five billion cc's of water, that's about a thousand vortex tanks. This is the water that we have for a whole year and with which we have to endure for all purposes, that means for agricultural production, for households, for forests, etc. And if we take the fact of this scientist, who claims that 40 or more percent of the water doesn't fall at all on the ground with treetops, and we take the fact that we have 71 percent of the agricultural land plowed and there we grow intensive production, that's a class next to the class, so that something similar happens on agricultural land, we can say that maybe 40-50 percent of the water from those 50 billions. Cabs won't hit the ground. It's in the fumes again within a few hours, and the airflow will largely take it away from our territory and probably fall into another part of the world. And the 50 percent of the water, the 25 billion, if it rains and hits the ground, everything is so thirsty, the forests, the agricultural crops, etc., it's so thirsty that the water is immediately absorbed by the vegetation, so we're not restoring the bottom water today. Even though the winter was very rich in snow, we were very happy with the snow, so today unfortunately there are reports that in 70 percent of the springs of the lower waters we did not fill the water and that we still have hundreds of villages where water is imported by tanks. According to unofficial reports, at the end of last year we had about 1,500 municipalities out of 6,500, where we imported water because the local wells were without water. So we can actually see that something is wrong, that basically the water requirements in connection with the fact that we drove the water out of the country for a hundred years, that it caught up with us and that we reap the fruit of our work, our work. And I repeat, I am an ordinary person, I am not playing at anything, I am even a shy person, I do not like to perform here, but I say that the biggest problem of the Czech Republic, far the biggest problem of the Czech Republic is that water is not really water, water will not be. And I'm afraid our children will have water at all. I consider this to be the biggest problem, and I beg you all very much to address this problem. [[10.40 hours]] And I would like to call on the ministers, I would like to call on the government to do a simple balance sheet, or call it what you want us to do, just take a piece of paper and calculate the water collections by the individual sectors. I don't think it's a hard calculation. We know how many woods they're gonna drink. We know how much agriculture has water requirements. We know how much water our households take. I often hear, and I often talk about it, that it's a waste of water. Of course, it's a waste of water. However, a few numbers, please. Water consumption per day and per person in the Czech Republic is 88 liters. In Germany, Austria 150, the United States even twice as much - 300 liters. 88 liters per person and per day is about 400 million ccs per year, which will take our households. I'm not saying it's not enough water, but it's only one percent of the water that's going to attack us. About one percent of the water. Of course, as a conservative person, I'm in favour of saving up wherever we can. On the other hand, when we look at the last two reports on the state of water, I have the reports, I got them here from the Department of Agriculture, signed even by Mr. Jurečka, so we find out if we look at the individual years since 2015, so maybe 2015 was very dry, 2016 already says that it was 97 percent aqueous, roughly attacked 52 millimeters of water. But what's completely crazy, what's completely crazy from my point of view, it's - I'm going back to my school years. When I went to school, we were taught that water, which will attack and chomp on the Czech Republic, goes into three parts. One part goes to the ground, the other part goes to the fumes, the third part goes away. That's how they taught us. Plus minus some difference. However, when I look at the official report of the Ministry of Agriculture on the state of water over the last few years, I am completely shocked by it - and I already knew it, as Mayor of Police, I knew it from one gentleman, a lifelong hydrologist, who pointed out back to me about five years ago that the biggest problem in the water is that we have raised it over the last decade, in the last decade, the exhaust of water. We just lifted the water out for thousands of different reasons. And in these two reports of the Ministry of Agriculture on the state of water, it is said that since 2015 we have raised the fumes, namely I will take the data for 2017, when it attacked about, there was about 95% aqueousity, so in the fumes, please went to incredible, really incredible 82 percent... Forty percent of the water we have at our disposal went into the fumes of all kinds, just physical and plant. We lose 80 percent of the water we have at our disposal with fumes. That's just crazy. I think, personally, I believe that this is, of course, related to the aspects of agriculture that we've warmed up the country, the landscape. And until we somehow prove it - and I don't know how, until we cool the country down, we're just lost. When we look at the official data, the other day I read it, I read it every day and I enjoy it so much, I'm a lifelong federal fisherman, so the water bothers me even more because our ponds are drying up, our tanks are drying up. Where are the years, please, when we are at the end of winter, five, eight years ago, when our water companies prayed and dropped hundreds of millions of cubicles of water so that we could have a reserve for flooding from melting snow. We're sitting at the table tonight, figuratively praying that the tanks will swell up. I was just looking at the data on the Internet. Do you know how much water we have for Pleasure today after such a big winter for snow? 50 per cent. I'm in the region where I'm closest to Faith and Letovice, the vortex already has about 80 percent of the water today, letovice still has 50. The power supply dried up last year. That's just completely alarming. So the vapor of 82 percent is just horrible. And if we don't cool the country down, I think we're just gonna lose in this. The other day, I read some interesting readings, and they looked at some kind of thermal camera when it's a hot day in the summer, so what's the temperature of the air? About 26 degrees above the water. It's 26 degrees above the water surface. It's okay. Above the forest, which is still vital, which has not yet dried and has water and cools the landscape, about four degrees more. Over the mowed lawn, over the mowed lawn, it's 40 degrees. 40 degrees above the mowed lawn. You see, the grass doesn't protect the soil anymore, and the sun's just heating up the soil for us. But above the cut field and the harvested field, above the asphalt surface, it's 50 to 60 degrees. Then we can't be surprised that we're actually where we are. When we look at the fact that we had that over the hundred years we were so many millions, so many hundreds of thousands of hectares of originally wet swamps or bows when it was a hot day in the summer and there was a temperature of 15 degrees, and we dried it up, plowed it. We have intensive farmland there today, after five months we harvest it, we actually have an exposed field, and we have 50, 60 degrees, so we can't be surprised that it used to be 15 or 16 degrees, today it's 50, 60 degrees, so we can't be surprised that the overall climate is actually changing. We call it climate change. And I'm a simple man, I have no basic education. I'm saying it's not climate change when we've changed the landscape. It's our work. We changed it, we destroyed the landscape. I'm ashamed of it. I'm sad about it. I'm not making any political ideology out of this. I'm an ordinary person. But please, all of you, I'm gonna put my hands together, let's do something about it until it's too late. I'm a realistic person, I've never made a fake capital out of anything, and I'm not going to. But I personally see that the water, the water, is crazy, the state. Let's see the world. Let's see the United States, California. The United States' grain belt is drying up. The agriculture took the moisture. Let's look at Australia. In Australia, I read it, and I looked for the reasons, so I found that there's basically a huge flood going on. The irrigations were so crazy, they broke the ecological balance. And Australia is coming back today. The UK dried up last year. It's basically drying out the entire mainland. Europe. And unfortunately, we can't make excuses here. Unfortunately, we are very unlucky that according to all available information, the Czech Republic is one of the three countries of Europe most at risk of drought due to water capacity. We don't have the Alps, we don't have the glaciers, we don't have the lakes. We have a few tanks. Just for your information, if we look at the volume of our surface waters, if we include all the flows, tanks and ponds, it's 8 billion cc's. Last year, because of drought, it was only $4 billion. If we look at the Department of Agriculture report, we'll find that the available underground water supply is a billion cc's. A billion cc's. And it's smaller every year. When we look at the total collection - now be careful to listen to me carefully, I first said that households will collect 400 million cc's of water, but water companies will produce a total of 1.4 billion cc's because they produce for the food industry and for other purposes. And those households only take 400 million cc's of it. So I just want to say that... and if we look at the billion 400 million cc's of water taking half the surface water, we know that Prague takes 90 million cc's from Želivka and another half of the Republic takes from underground springs. That means some 600, 700 million cc's, and now we see that we only have a billion cc's of water under us, which we can use, and we take 700 million cc's of it for annual drinking water production. And today we see that even after the winter, when there was a lot of snow, almost 70 percent of drilling doesn't respond. 70 percent of wells don't react at all to the melting of snow, which was relatively enough, so it's just desperate. So that's what I wanted to point out. And please, I've heard a lot of things here. I've heard a lot of things here. A culprit is sought, a culprit is sought in the woods. Please, there's no culprit. We're all guilty. Let's not point each other out. We just changed the landscape like this. Nor do I make any political struggle about it, who has ever been in power, who has ever simply done meliorations and regulations, etc. Oh, please, it's about water. It's really about water. And as long as we don't change the landscape, the water's just gonna dry out the woods. We can't save them. I was listening to the man on TV the other day, and I realized again the huge spread of aspects that have everything to do with everything. There was a gentleman who spoke beautifully about the borderlands, I didn't even realize that, and he said that when World War II ended and a political decision was made to move the Němec, 2.5 million Němec moved to Germany - of course it was right in my opinion. However, the Němec have been doing shepherding there for centuries. Agricultural pastoral activity. That means there were no woods on those mountains. There were cattle grazing on those mountains. And of course, all of a sudden, we moved 2.5 million people, and what about the territory? So we started planting massively there. Those are the numbers that show us the huge increase in those forests over the centuries. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] And I can't agree - maybe I'm wrong, I'd be happy to be wrong. I, while we were sitting - here I have to look at Mr. Faltýnek, thank you for the visit to Prostějov, and Mr. Vojáček was sitting next to me. A very respectable man who has a huge task to do something about these woods. And I'm an hour and a half when we were flying and we saw the tragedy -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u27	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I think we're discussing a very serious matter. I have three other factual points here. And please, so that the person to whom the word has been given may actually say his speech in such a way as to understand it. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u28	When we were flying over Telčí and over the Třebící and we saw the millions and millions of dry trees, the thousands of hectares, the whole hillside, the whole slopes dry as this table, I asked Mr. Vojáček how he looked at it and if it wasn't about water. I have noted many opinions that today is generally expected, perhaps right, that we will reduce the monoculture of spruce from 52 percent in favour of deciduouss. Please, I have seen a beautiful article in the newspaper in November that describes the situation in the lumber forests. Those are Novomlýn's tanks. Lužní lesy, that is 12,000 hectares large enclave, historical, where mainly oaks have always grown. Now, in recent years, as in general in our forests, there has been a huge dramatic drying of oaks, leafy trees. And the gentleman who writes the article, and he's certainly an expert who understands it, so he writes about a situation that has changed over the last 100 years. And he describes the hundred years on that enclave 12,000 hectares of lumber forest. And he writes that a hundred years ago, the forest was loosed, there were oak trees growing, there were gaps between them, there were cattle grazing, and there were other oaks. So there was relatively enough water. Over the hundred years, these lumber forests have grown completely, and they're starting to dry out. It's probably possible that there's water running out again. When we were at the scientific workplace of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences last year and this year with our agricultural committee, I am always careful to know which scientist is at the level of water, which scientist is at the level of forests, then I go to them and ask them a whole series of questions. I remember last year asking scientists at the Academy of Sciences whether they already know in general which forests take more water, whether conifers or deciduouss. Last year, those scientists weren't able to answer me. I asked that question again this year -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u29	I'm gonna interrupt you one more time, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the House again for peace! Other discussions that do not concern the Forest Act, please to the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u30	This year I asked that question again, and the other scientist, I apologize for not remembering the name, he was a very clever gentleman, telling me by himself that, in his opinion, and that surprised me, the leafy man takes even more water in the summer than conifers, which may be true. I'm sorry that officially our scientific elite doesn't know this. But then I ask, I ask all of us, I ask the ministers, the government, if we think we're going to lower the monoculture of conifers, especially spruce, from 52 percent in our forests to less, in favor of deciduouss, and if this were to be true, that the deciduouss take even more water and take it from deeper depths, because the spices deeper than the spruce, I guess we'll all recognise that, that's long ago explored, so I ask what the result will be. Will it really have such a longing expected result? I'm going back to that gentleman, Director General Vojáček, who was sitting next to me on the plane for an hour and a half, and I'm so glad I could attend, thank you for this visit. I asked him if he thought that by really strengthening the number of leaf leafers, the desired result would come. He wiggled his head that he doubted that he didn't know, which, of course, was a serious answer, and I take it, however, he replied to me that as the spruce of his disease, so today there is a beech bark, so that we don't think that deciduous trees are a miracle, a panacea, and that they will save us from the calamity that it is. I don't like long shows. I have to end by saying that from my perspective, as I have been looking at this for 50 years as a fisherman, as a citizen, as the mayor of the town of Polička, I simply repeat that water is and will be the biggest problem in the Czech Republic, and I fear that we do not have to win this fight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u31	Thank you, Mr Martin. We now have factual remarks in order: Jan Zahradník, Stanislav Juránek, Jiří Běhounek, Josef Kott, Jiří Kobza. Please give a factual remark to Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u32	Mr Vice-President, I would just like to respond to what my colleague, a friend, Professor František Vácha, said. I would remind you that scientists at the Zurich Institute have found that there are currently about 3 trillion trees on the globe. And a worker at the Thomas Krauter Institute told Independent that there are now 400 gigaton emissions in those three trillion trees. If we could plant over a trillion new trees, these trees would consume anthropogenic emissions from the next ten years or so. According to Krauter, global mass deployment actions would have a much greater impact on environmental protection than the construction of wind turbines or a vegetarian diet. He further said that everyone could be involved, which is great in his view, and trees generally make the environment in cities and in nature happier, improving air quality, water, food. I can give the legacy to my colleague Vách so that he can lead his scientific disputation directly with this honored professor from the Zurich Institute. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Stanislav Juránek's factual comment now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u34	Thank you. I have just one point of fact, and I have one point for the rapporteur who read at the beginning, through the President, when it was read at the beginning that it would not affect public budgets, so please, here it will have an impact, but at the beginning it was read that it will not, so it will affect public budgets. That's my only point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u35	Thank you. Another is the factual point, Mr Jiří Běhounek, who is ready. The rapporteur, Josef Kott, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u36	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I am only the colleague of Martin, who provoked me to this performance. I would hate for us to end up all farmers, foresters, but also hypermarket builders, those who do roads and other creators of what has been presented here. I bow deeply to his knowledge in numbers, and since he mentioned the Vysočina, I want to say to him that we have been doing this for six years and we do not know the way out of it, because, as in the legal opinion of one thing, lawyers have six different opinions, and experts cannot agree on this. I believe this is a very special situation. I fully support the Ministry of Agriculture in these steps, because emergency situations must have extraordinary measures. This law is only a step towards moving forward. I am convinced that we have the will to discuss it in the committees and to adopt it very quickly, because although the current law is very good, individual adjustments can shift further management in the woods and thus save them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Josef Kott's point of order is now in effect. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It's just a reaction -- basically he's already summarized it here, Mr. Governor Běhounek of the Highlands. Indeed, the situation is not about excluding foresters and farmers from the landscape, because I think they belong there, and that they are the ones who, to some extent, create space for us to contain water in the landscape and make sure that the waters flow away as little as possible. It is necessary to realize that we are actually the roof of Europe, that rivers spring here and they all flow outside the Czech Republic. Watercourses are not so strong that we can continue to work with them. I appreciate what Mr Martinů has said here through Mr President that this is a problem for the whole of Europe. I think the Czech Republic is facing this and is trying to solve the problem. It's not a question of two or three years, as Mr Běhounek said, but it's a matter that's been under way for more than ten years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u39	I thank Mr Josef Kotta. Now Mr Jiří Kobza's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to a very well-founded speech by my colleague Martin, because he mentioned South Moravia and the puddle forests where I grew up, and in my long life I had the opportunity to follow the development of the landscape there. So I just wanted to clarify a few facts. Lužní lesy v obluží stood mainly on the regular floods of the Moravia River. Each spring spilled for two months, water rose two meters in the valley, after two months it fell again, natural lakes remained in the woods. The fact is that then there was a field that was by far the most fertile in the area. Unfortunately, this system was hit by a fraction of the regulation of the Moravia River, which actually led these seasonal floods away, and the water that flows away is still missing in the landscape. And unfortunately, I'm afraid the only way we can do this right now is to start thinking very seriously about how to prevent these torrential waters from draining in the spring, so that they stay in the landscape, so that they can be used to store them somewhere with a system of cops, dams, and allow them to liquefy long-term, because we probably won't have another source of water, as has been said here. Now that I was on my way to work, I saw how the dam in Vrané was being dropped, which is preparing for spring torrential waters again, and so it reminded me of the need to look for solutions, how not to drop the water, but to hold it and allow it to stay in the countryside. In that sense, I miss a certain correlation between forest law and water law. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u41	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. The motion to return or refuse has not been made, so we will deal with the motion on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a guarantee committee. I'm sorry. Is there interest in final words? I didn't give room. He's interested, so before we make any decisions, let's give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u42	Hello again. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to thank you first of all for the debate that has taken place here, because I think it is very important to discuss this issue carefully, and that is why I said that we would discuss it on the Committee on Agriculture, and that is why I agreed and I recommend that we extend the deadline. As far as funding is concerned, I'll take it one step at a time. So a new concept will be submitted by the end of July, because the current Wooden Book is ending, so I'm assuming we're going to be dealing with funding for that next period. So it will be presented and I assume that by the end of July we will have it on the table, including increased sales of the Forests of the Czech Republic. That means it won't be in the transport site anymore, but it'll need to be done on p.e.c. etc., it'll be combined, which is also a change in funding. I would like to thank Mr Juránek for his contribution and also, I think that the reproductive materials he mentioned need to be addressed, it is a matter of foresters. I want to assure him that there will be a platform for this new law so that we can get all the comments. As far as Mr Jurečka is concerned, I thank him for the things, but I must say that it is a pity that these things have not been resolved five years ago or four years ago. And as far as logging is concerned, I want to assure him that the fact that the 14 million barkwood is now being mined is a sign that we're dealing with this, but I'm looking forward to the debate, so I think it's all going to happen. As far as Mrs Krutáková is concerned, yes, we are counting on the answers. We'll talk about those ten years of practice, etc. Thank you for that. And the last one about Mr. Martin. So I want to assure him that I'm dealing with the water. There will be a law, a water law that we will present in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, and I think it will be a good means for us to start dealing with water retention and water management at all. It will be presented in a very short time. So thank you and please support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u43	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur also wishes to speak with the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to make the right point, as my fellow Member Juránek commented here - I was talking about, of course, having an impact on the state budget, but on the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. The fact that I said that the other budgets wouldn't be affected will, of course, affect the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. And to what extent - the minimum amount there is CZK 40 million. I, too, would like to thank you for the debate and we agreed from the plenary that not a guarantee, but a second committee that should have it for discussion should be the Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u45	Thank you, and as I have already announced, the proposed guarantee committee is the agricultural committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It doesn't, so we can proceed to the vote. In the meantime, I've called in the MPs. There's a motion to check out. I've just checked you out, please sign up with your voting cards again. Thank you. We are voting on the Commandment of the Agricultural Committee as a Committee of Guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 292, 160 Members voted against no one, for 160 Members. The Guarantee Committee shall be the Agricultural Committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose a commandment to another committee. Any of the Members suggesting that? Yes, the rapporteur and Mr Kobza. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u46	I would like to confirm again what we agreed that this material should be discussed by the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u47	Yes, thank you. Mr Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Since the issue of water and water management goes beyond the borders of our state, and this also applies to neighbours in neighbouring countries, I propose that this law be imposed on the Committee on European Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-003-024.u49	Yes. Is there anyone else suggesting another committee to deal with this press? It's not like that. So we are going to vote now on the commandment of the Environment Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 293, 162 Members have been voted in favour of 162 Members. We have ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on the Environment. Another and final proposal for the commandment was made to the Committee on European Affairs. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 294, 163 Members voted in favour of 149, against 77. The motion was not accepted. Thus, the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee and the environmental committee will deal with this proposal. There was a proposal in the debate to extend the deadline by 30 days, i.e. 90 days. It's with the agreement of the plaintiff, the Minister. So we will now also vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of extending the deadline? Who's against it? In the vote number 295, 163 Members registered, for 147, against no one. The deadline was extended to 90 days. I'm done discussing this point. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Before I open another point, let me remind you that we have point five, insurance, social security, second reading at 12 o'clock. [[11.10 hours]] But now I'm starting to discuss the item number.
