ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u1	144. Government bill amending Act No. 167/2008 Coll., on the prevention and correction of environmental damage and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 173/ - Third reading Mr Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec are already taking his place at the rapporteur's table. The rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on the Environment, is Mrs Dana Balcarová. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 173/2, which was delivered on 7 December 2018. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 173/3. For the plaintiff, the Minister is interested in speaking before the debate is opened, and I am giving him my word. Quiet in the hall, please, especially on the left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u2	Thank you for the floor. Yes, especially on the left. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear colleagues, I wish you good morning. Let me really just briefly refresh your memory, those of you who did not pay particular attention to this press. The main reason for its submission is to address the infringement situation or response to the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission with the Czech Republic, because it concluded that this directive is not sufficiently transposed into the Czech legal order. I would like to stress that, in response to this, the Ministry of the Environment has, in fact, worked very closely with the European Commission, but above all, we have only modified and changed the provisions of Section 8, which concern the regulation of proceedings, the imposition of preventive or corrective measures and not other things, because we are actually responding exclusively to the complaints of the European Commission. A number of objections to this amendment were raised in the first and second reading debate, on the one hand, the proposals for a significant extension and, on the other hand, proposals for rejection or a substantial narrowing and tightening of the conditions. I would like to say, for the Ministry of the Environment, that all these proposals are actually aimed at either going significantly above the transposition obligation and above the demands of the European Commission, or, on the contrary, we would in principle increase the transposition deficit that the European Commission is accusing us of today, and we would be heading to the court with a likelihood of a certainty. I would like to stress again that the concern that has been raised here that this amendment could provide non-governmental organisations with tools to block construction in the Czech Republic is indeed odd, because the Environmental Damage Prevention Act applies to activities that have already been carried out, to projects that have already been implemented, and its application cannot intervene in any way in the authorisation of buildings or other projects. I would like to emphasise once again that no case of such serious environmental damage has yet been identified in the Czech Republic which would require the imposition of corrective measures under this law. The reason why this is the case is that in the Czech Republic, specific cases are followed according to the constituent laws and not according to this law. This is also the answer to why this law is used much more in Poland or Hungary than in the Czech Republic. I guess that's it for the introduction. More possibly even in the debate and in response to the amendments tabled, where I say straight ahead that the Ministry of the Environment does not support any amendments tabled and, of course, not a proposal to reject this amendment at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u3	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. At this point, Mr Jan Zahradník is the first party to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to reiterate my amendments that I have tabled before they are decided by the vote. Minister Brabec mentioned the relatively serious fact that we already have the law in our legal system. It is Act No. 167/2008 Coll., which has not yet been applied once, that is quite the correct statement, and that is why, and I remind you that so far all the problems that arise in connection with the possibility of causing or correcting environmental harm have been resolved by the constituent laws, the Act on Air Protection, the Act on Nature Protection, the Water Act, and I do not know what other laws in which there has always been any instrument in which environmental harm has been suffered, their activity to stop them and to force them to correct or pay the consequences of their miserable activities. There's no doubt about it. Whoever commits or is about to commit any environmental damage must be effectively prevented from doing so, and if he has already committed it, the damage must be corrected at its expense. There's no doubt about it. The question is to what extent, however, the pressure of the European Union, which the Minister referred to by the word infringement, and the possibility of bringing an action before the court, and in the event of a court ruling in our favour, also the payment of the relatively drastic fines that we would be subject to, I understand that it is and that we must do something. That's why this law is here. [[9.20 hours]] I have tabled three amendments. In particular, the first proposal concerns, and I think that this is the gross of the entire law, which is proposed so that, by who can draw attention to the environmental damage, it may give the competent authorities a notice of the injury and in the sense of the request for redress, so far only the persons concerned, i.e. those concerned by the unfortunate activity, the neighbors of the factory or the people who are therefore, as the original law says, affected by the injury. Here, at the initiative of the European Union, there is a proposal that would include as those persons who can submit the submission, any non-governmental organisation seeking to protect nature. Our law says this in the words that it may be a legal person of private law whose subject matter is the protection of the environment under the founding legal act and whose main activity is not business or other gainful activity. Thus, exclusively non-governmental organisations active in environmental protection. In this case, I suggest that, if we decide to allow these organisations to participate in the submission of environmental harm, so that it is those who have a three-year history so that it cannot be an ad hoc organization, which, for some reason, someone who simply does not like the activities of an undertaking which is already built, set up, who wants to spoil its activities, so that it can file an ad hoc organisation, will put it in wine, that it does so in the interests of the environment, and will keep asking for information, will be involved in all proceedings and will be in the business of the undertaking, and will simply spoil the entity. I propose that it be necessary here to require proof of the organisation's three-year history, that it actually exists here for at least three years and that it actually takes action to protect the environment, not only an activity consisting of setting up and simply filing a complaint against an undertaking. So it couldn't be these ad hoc organizations. I understand that the ministerial servants here are accusing my proposal of not allowing access to these ad hoc organizations. On the contrary, I am trying to stop these organisations from doing so and prevent them from doing so. And the second part of my proposal is that I propose that these organisations that want to submit these submissions can prove that they have transparent accounts. This proposal wasn't born out of nothingness, but it's a proposal I found in a commentary procedure between the proposals submitted by the Ministry of Regional Development. I think the officials have understood quite correctly that there are a number of organizations in our country that have complaints like this, a lawsuit founded by a pretty decent business, and they wanted those organisations to have to prove that their accounts are really clear and that there are no ways that would suggest that they are doing their business in the sense of obtaining some unfair means of doing so. I still have one important comment on my first proposal, on this point § 8 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b). Why do we really highlight those environmental organisations? Why can they be the only ones who can serve them? What makes them so significant in this sense? Do they have a patent on reason? Are they among their members who all have to prove some environmental education? Are these people who have had some history in the field of environmental protection, any experience? And if my proposal doesn't pass, it won't be. It'll be ad hoc, people coming along to make their suggestions. Why maybe it can't be some other people staying in some other society who might also notice that there's some environmental damage going on here - like conservationists, heritage collectors, collectors of things simply, philatelists, they might also notice that there's environmental damage somewhere. Ministerial officials here argue in favour of my proposal that there would be unacceptable, unjustified discrimination against non-governmental organisations that would not have access to the rights which are proposed for non-governmental organisations to anchor that this would be contrary to the Aarhus Treaty and would be a disproportionate restriction on the conditions for non-governmental organisations to participate. Well, that's true, if we give that right only to the environmentalists. Of course, we will then limit other NGOs that operate in some other area and which will not be able to submit these proposals. The second proposal concerns that the persons referred to in this paragraph shall: Without undue delay, the competent authority may request non-governmental organisations to be informed in writing of any proceedings initiated for the imposition of preventive measures for a period of one year. I suggest that only those NGOs should have this option, if that is the case, on the basis of which the investigation will be carried out, so that it cannot be entirely any environmental mischief, but only those who made the request have put some work into gathering the information which led to the initiation of the investigation and which, of course, have the right to be informed of the course of the investigation. Well, not all without exception, but only those whose submission, let's say, has been successful. Third, again, paragraph 7 states that if the proceedings for the imposition of preventive measures or corrective measures have not been initiated at their request, the persons referred to in paragraph 2 shall be those referred to in point 2 of this Article. (b) parties to such proceedings if they declare in writing their interest in being those parties within eight days. Well, that once again allows anyone to become party to the proceedings, not only who will successfully submit the complaint, who will successfully justify why it is served, who will successfully justify that his information is correct, true that it is not some bullying submission that should prevent the entrepreneur from doing business for any simple reason, but only those who have actually demonstrated that they are serving it legitimately. Therefore - and also the European Commission's directive does not explicitly say such a thing. Although it is here that the persons referred to in Article 12, these are the mischiefs, have access to a court or to another independent or impartial public authority, which is competent to examine in a procedural manner, etc. under this Directive. Of course, we all have that, don't we? Every citizen has access to the court and does not need to be favoured in this way. So I'll sum up my performance like this. I think that, in this form, this law is harmful to our Republic. I think that we should reject it, then informally instruct the Minister to renegotiate those conditions with the European Union, so that we do not give such an exceptional mandate and quite a great deal of power in the hands of the European Union. And that's why I propose rejecting the law. I suggested it at second reading, so the proposal will be voted on as the first proposal in a moment. [[9.30 hours]] And then, of course, I tabled the three amendments that I am asking for your support. We can talk a hundred times about how the European Union ties our hands and how bureaucratic the European Union directives are, how we should face them, how we should defend ourselves against the bureaucratic influence that falls on us from the European Union. Now we have a chance to stand up to it, even if it's such a marginal law, which, I suspect, none of you care very much. Finally, the committee, and the rapporteur will tell you in a moment, has made it quite clear that it is not in favour of my proposals. I have to admit, I'm sorry, but there's nothing I can do. That's all I can do. So the Ministry rejects them, and the Committee on the Environment, as a guarantee committee, has opposed them. Unfortunately, I failed to convince my fellow members of the committee that they should nod to my proposals and rather managed to convince the Ministry that the infringement is so close and the fines that we have to close our eyes and vote it out. It puts a great deal of power in the hands of environmentalists. I agree with the Minister that this will not be about the possibility of preventing the implementation of any new intentions, but about the possibility of spoiling the activities of some institutions, businesses that work and which, under this pretext, environmentalists will be able to bully. Therefore, I suggest and I ask that you support my proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u5	Thank you, too. Next, Mrs Balcarová is enrolled in the proper debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to the Environmental Damage Act has been given to us in the Chamber of Deputies, with the fact that it is not desirable for it to be changed differently than with regard to the participation of the associations. Because that is the main reason why the European Commission had reservations. The law has never been applied, and I think that what we have done now, that we have better anchored the participation of the associations, will not help the law, because it will no longer be used, for the reason, as the Minister also said, was also said by Mr Zahradník, that environmental damage is adequately treated by other component laws that can prevent environmental damage or possibly impose some corrective measures or fines. I must say, I do not agree with this view. That is why I have tabled my amendments, and I would like to set a specific example here, so that it is clear that there are cases where the law does not protect environmental damage, where there is no law that could be applied. I was going to land one amendment. They say the soil is well protected, and it is a component law. Agricultural land is protected in the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Soil Fund and forest land is protected in the Law. But I ask: where is the protected land, other land and construction land? There's no law for that. That is why I tabled an amendment to protect this land as well. I can give you a specific example so that you can imagine what I mean. It could be large-scale measures that are directly in or around the municipalities, they could be industrial areas, they could be communications. So let me give you an example where the pollution of the city's intravilion can be contaminated by the fallout of heavy metals from a nearby factory. It could be cadmium from the glassworks, for example, or it could be arsenic from extraction. In such cases, when soil damage occurs, there is no legislation to encourage the culprit to take corrective action or to compensate financially for such damage. And it is also obvious that people's health is at risk in such soil damage. Because when this soil is contaminated, then, in the case of building activities in the city or children's games on public playgrounds, transport causes secondary dust to inhale and eat together with the food of this contamination, that is, heavy metals. So my amendment to land is heading in this direction, so that even in such cases soil damage can be dealt with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u7	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone, I don't report, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. The plaintiff is interested. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u8	Thank you for the floor. It's really only very brief. I really believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the criticisms that have been raised here from both sides, and that is so good, that the debate has been very correct on the committees, that the criticisms are not really realistic, or that the impact cannot be as the two petitioners of all these amendments say. On the one hand, it is precisely because we have indeed gone to the very limit in negotiations with the Commission, in negotiations with experts from the Commission, when we have actually tried to convince ourselves that the existing legislation is sufficient. There were several negotiations, so it was not so that we would automatically accept the Commission's requests. But it's true that it didn't work out, and this is really the narrowest amendment to correct the deficit. I do not agree with my colleague, the Zahradník, that there are new rights. Those NGOs really do have them, and they really have them under that directive, not the interpretation of the law. That's just a real fact today. And I am convinced that there will be no overuse or abuse of this law after his amendment. I think that we should save ourselves the fights in the good sense, or the debates with the European Commission on these matters, on the issues of legislation which, of course, await us and which will go to the same edge, see the amendment of the Fourteenth, the Construction Act, and so on. I don't think this is the case where we should volunteer to talk about a, let's say, trial, because it would be very likely to happen and is relatively close to it. But I'm not threatening that, I'm saying. Because I dare say that I know where the manoeuvring space is that we have in dealing with the European Commission on NGOs and its rights and obligations. On the other hand, I would not agree with the Chair of the Committee, Mrs Balcarová, because if there were, for example, any serious infringement, such as any emissions of cadmium-type substances, arsenic-types and so on, it is quite possible. It is, of course, also possible from the point of view of the Czech Environmental Inspection into any component, because it means that it has crossed some authorised emissions somewhere and has some serious or adverse effect on human health and it is convenient. And her second amendment, which concerns some extension to other species, is indeed a significant extension of the obligations under the directive, and we are really limiting ourselves today to what the Commission is accusing us of, and we are only changing that. So I would like to ask you to support the original one, and for this reason, I repeat, we will not support any amendment as the Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u9	Thank you. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u10	Dear colleagues, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on the Environment of the 15th meeting of 12 December 2018. The Committee as a guarantee after the second reading of the draft law recommends that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the following order in the third reading of the draft bill. First, a motion to dismiss. Secondly, a proposal for legislative technical adaptations if they are presented in the debate and in the third reading. I'm just saying they weren't. Thirdly, proposal A1, Mr Jan Zahradník's amendment. Proposal A2, proposal by my colleague Zahradník. Proposal A3, proposal by my colleague Zahradník. Proposal B1, proposal by Dana Balcarová. Proposal B2, proposal by Dana Balcarová. Finally, vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u11	Thank you. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby, and we'll vote for this procedure. I'm asking if anyone's interested in performing for the procedure. Does he have an additional proposal? It's not like that. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? This is vote number 24, registered 178 Members, for 172, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I will therefore ask the rapporteur to take us through the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we would be the first to vote in favour of rejecting Mr Jan Zahradník's colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u13	I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion to dismiss the law. Who's against it? Voting number 25, registered 179, for 20, against 130. This proposal was not adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u14	We would also vote on the proposal A1 by Mr Zahradník, who concerns the definition of a party to the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u15	The plaintiff's position? [[Newsletter: Not recommended. Dissenting.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 26, registered 178, for 46, versus 106. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u16	Proposal A2 by colleague Jan zahradník concerning the local jurisdiction of the associations. Opinion of the Committee: Not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u17	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 27, registered is 179, for 21, versus 127. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u18	Proposal A3 of my colleague Zahradník, which concerns the automatic participation of associations. The Committee on the Environment does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u19	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 28, registered is 179, for 20, against 128. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u20	Proposal B1 by Dana Balcarová concerning the extension of the law in the field of land. The Committee on the Environment has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u21	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 29, 179 Members registered, 36 against 100. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u22	Proposal B2 by Dana Balcarová concerning the extension of the scope of the law in the field of protected species. The Committee on the Environment has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-001-144.u23	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 30, 179 Members registered, for 35, against 109. The motion was not accepted. And if I am looking right, we have dealt with our amendments and we will vote on the law as a whole. I will make a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 167/2008 Coll., on the prevention and correction of environmental damage and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, pursuant to House Press 173, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 31, 180 Members are logged in, for 137, against 20. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the resolution and the bill have been approved, that I conclude the discussion of this point and I thank everyone. I'm opening another point.
