ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-009-033.u1	33. Government bill amending Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on veterinary care and amending certain related laws (veterinary law), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 435/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Minister Dostálová will state the proposal. I beg you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-009-033.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention the Government's amendment to Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care. The submitted amendment adapts the EU regulation on official controls introducing new legislation on official controls in the field of veterinary care. In addition to the adaptation of that Regulation, the aim of the proposal is to adapt animal health conditions to insect farming as livestock when it is intended for human consumption or for the production of processed animal protein, to lay down animal and public health requirements for undertakings which process and place on the market insect products intended for human consumption, to anchor a game-seeker's certificate and a bee-seeker's certificate, to require the operators concerned to bear the publication of information necessary for the protection of human and animal health through leaflets or posters, to include specific measures of official veterinary conclusions to ensure animal products. Following a discussion on dog reproductions, there is a tightening of the notification obligation of breeders holding three or more bitches over 12 months of age, as well as an increase in penalties for infringements of this administrative obligation. At the same time, a circle of entities not subject to this obligation is being specified - animal shelter, hotel or guest house for animals, armed forces, security forces, military police or municipal police, breeders of guide dogs or assistance dogs. Further measures are prepared in this context as part of the proposal for an amendment to the Animal Protection Act against Abuse, which has already been discussed in the Working Commissions of the Legislative Council of the Government and will soon be included on the Government's agenda. Following measures to combat African swine fever in Zlín, it is proposed to specify and supplement the content of the emergency veterinary measures imposed by the veterinary authorities, to establish the competence of the region corresponding to the competence of the municipality, to participate in the provision of exceptional veterinary measures, to clarify the possibility of granting compensation for costs and losses incurred as a result of the implementation of exceptional veterinary measures imposed by the control of any of the dangerous diseases and diseases communicable from animals to humans for the users of the chasing and persons managing agricultural land. Part of the bill is also an amendment to the Act on Administrative Charges, which in particular complements the administrative fee for the issue of consent for the disposal of horse carcases by the breeder on his own land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-009-033.u3	I thank you, Madam Secretary, and please make the words rapporteur for first reading Mr Pavel Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-009-033.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madame and gentlemen, the Minister has shown very perfectly what is going on in this amendment to the veterinary law. So I would just like to point out that this is a implementation amendment that also responds to some issues that have been moving the media environment in recent months or a few years, and now I am thinking about the multiplication plants that the Minister has mentioned here, or the emerging new trends, for example. insect breeding for protein production as well as human consumption, but also responds to the challenges that are caused by e.g. and African swine fever, experience in its control and disposal and other and other matters. So I will limit myself only to making reference to the Minister's speech and, in agreement with the Minister of Agriculture, I will propose an extension of the time for committee discussions by 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-009-033.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Radek Holomčík came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-009-033.u6	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say four things about the amendment to the veterinary law that we are discussing here. What I would like to assess very positively, and the rapporteur has already indicated, is that Czech legislation is starting to take insects as food and its breeding as something that should fall under veterinary law. I think if I say this a little lightly, in the future, a lot of people will appreciate it when there are less separates and more insect proteins in the sausages. I think it's a new-type food that has great potential. The Czech Republic has the potential to be one of the world's leaders in this regard. Not to mention that insect breeding is actually associated with relatively small, if none at all, or if any environmental burden at all. What doesn't seem so positive to me anymore is a change that concerns the notification obligation of dogs keepers. That number is a reduction from five to three. And I think that if it has been announced that this amendment will somehow address the issue of multiplication, this change will not solve it. The problem isn't in three or four dogs. The problem is ten, twenty, and larger numbers. [[16.40 hours]] What is another such thing that we will want to edit at second reading is that in the bill they do not distinguish neutered and uncastrated bitches. You'll probably find it hard to start a breeding house with five or three neutered bitches who just can't have puppies. Another thing that's probably less important, but it might concern someone. It says that if there is a reduction to less than three bitches, then the breeder must report it within seven days, which means you will be able to lose the dog. Maybe I don't exactly have it, but I know that for a lot of people, a dog is a member of the family, and I think it's pointless to burden people in a difficult situation with this duty right after seven days of death. And the next thing you know, it's just gonna go up. I get three bitches, I report them to the vet, then I get another 300, and no one knows that. That's not in the law. But these are all things that can be edited in second reading. That is certainly why I welcome the rapporteur's proposal to extend the deadline. I would also mention two things that are related to the vet and not directly related to this law, but I think it is important that they be heard. The first is that I am very sorry about the attitude of the Ministry of Agriculture to the detachment of slaughterhouses, which means to allow some smaller quantities of cattle to be slaughtered in the vicinity of pastures or breeding. A number of indications show us that this is a relatively interesting potential especially for smaller breeders, but not only for them, at the cost of minimum costs that would be associated with it. The vet would logically have to recruit a few veterinarians to go around these workplaces, but cost estimates are somewhere around ten million a year. If we take the potential that this method of making essentially a new range of meat would have in our country, some estimates say that the added value would correspond to the burden. And we would give farmers and, in fact, consumers a new product range, which, especially in terms of terms of double food quality, could be interesting. The last thing I'd like to mention here - I'd like to do a little bit of veterinary work here. I've been talking to a lot of farmers. The vast majority of them praise the activities of the veterinary administration. Some even say that the veterinary administration works a number of levels better than any other organisation that somehow oversees farmers' activities. If the veterinary administration is criticized, it is most often criticized by animal rights defenders or animal defenders before abuse. I don't envy this vet, because in the vast majority of cases, what they're accused of isn't their fault. They are accused of having trouble intervening, having trouble confiscating the abused animals. In smaller animals, dogs, cats, there is a nonprofit sector and actually some existing network of shelters is able to cope mostly. Not always, but mostly. But where there's a big problem, it's in big animals - cows, horses. Veterinarians come to the scene, they find abuse, and they can't actually take the animals away because they just have nowhere to put them. I think this is something we should talk about - I again welcome the proposal to extend the debate by 30 days. Because if there's a new Civil Code that says an animal is no longer a thing, but it's a sentient being that deserves some greater protection, I think that as a state, we should be able to provide that protection, and that's why we need some infrastructure. That will certainly be a point that I will also reflect in some way during committee discussions. Otherwise for the pirate club - we do not have a problem with this bill except for the complaints mentioned here. Let's let him go to second reading. I will personally support the proposal to extend the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-009-033.u7	I thank the honourable Member for his speech. I have no one else enrolled in the general debate. I'm checking to see if there's anyone from the scene. No one's checking in. I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? Not interested. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I'm gonna go get the MPs from the lobby. We will vote on the commandment to the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 116, registered in 176 Members and Members, for 143. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Is there any other proposition from the diaper? I can't see, so I consider this closed. We will deal with one more vote, and it is a proposal to extend the deadline for discussion by 30 days. I've started the vote. Please vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 117, registered in 176 Members and Members, for 142. The motion was accepted. I note that this press has been ordered to the Committee of Agriculture as a committee of guarantee. No other committee has been ordered. The time limit for the hearing has been extended by 30 days. Thank you. We'll go to the next press that's
