ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u1	39. Government bill amending Act No. 62/2003 Coll., on the elections to the European Parliament and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 336/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 We interrupted the discussion of this point right at the outset on 25. 1. at the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the proposal of Mr Jakub Michálek and we adjourned his further hearing until 31. 5. 2019. It was on the basis of resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 466. And I would like to point out that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, will be mentioned. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u2	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, let me briefly mention the draft law amending the Act on elections to the European Parliament. This printing is available under number 336. The proposal serves for the national implementation of the amendment to the European Act on the election of Members of the European Parliament of 13 July 2018 and introduces, inter alia, the obligation for Member States to take the necessary penalty measures to ensure that no one can vote more than once in the same elections to the European Parliament. Following this, the Czech Act on Elections to the European Parliament newly sets out the relevant offence for which it will be possible to impose a fine of up to CZK 10,000. Other changes contained in the proposal are legislative technical modifications, which primarily reflect the introduction of offences into the related passages of the law. The discussion of this proposal on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies has been suspended and therefore it has not been approved before this year's elections to the European Parliament. However, this amendment to the European Act on the Election of Members of the European Parliament still needs to be implemented into Czech law, so I would like to ask for further consideration of the draft law and its approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u3	I am now asking that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jiří Strýček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u4	So, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I'm basically just going to review what the Minister said here. We opened this item at first reading on 25 January 2019, interrupted it by 31 May 2019 with the fact that it got on the House program now as a fixed point. Generally speaking, the implementation of the elections to the European Parliament is essentially regulated by the Act on the election of representatives in the European Parliament. In addition, the electoral procedure shall be governed in each Member State by national rules. In the Czech Republic, it is Law No. 62/2003 Sb., which basically implements all the European regulations in the Czech legal order. This submitted government proposal, as has already been said, implements into the electoral law the requirement to impose effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions in cases of double voting in elections to the European Parliament. The penalties introduced are up to CZK 5,000 for attempting double entry into the electoral record and up to CZK 10,000 for the double vote. It is appropriate to mention here that the electoral adjustment, the system of making and keeping the electoral list for elections to the European Parliament is now set up in the Czech Republic so that, in essence, there should not be a multiple vote based on the illegal and active deliberate registration of voters in two lists. The proposed sanctions are therefore designed to discourage voters from voting twice in cases where a voter has dual citizenship and is automatically listed as voters of both Member States. That's about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u5	Well, thank you. I'll read two more apologies. Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 14:00 to 15:00 for working reasons, and Mr Ladislav Okleštěk apologizes between 14:30 and 19:00 because of illness. I am now opening a general debate. With priority rights, I have the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor. And he'll be ready... Like this. I have two factual points here, but factual points are not responding to anything in the debate. That is why I will give the Vice-President the first word. Then two factual points. And then Mr Dominik Feri would prepare himself. So, Mr. Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u6	Thank you, Mr President. So we have an amendment to the European Parliament election law that looks like it's actually a regular implementation Euronovela, how many of them are coming. However, it is not the usual Euro-Law, as we know it, because it is not a directive that is already decided and which we must implement. This is an act that will only come into force after most states have agreed to it, and I don't think we're in time at the moment. This thing has two mandatory parts that we should implement. Resp. We have to implement one of them, these are the offences, as the Minister has properly presented here, and there is no problem. It's all perfectly okay. However, the second mandatory part of the act, which we will probably agree to by approving this law, although I am not quite sure, I have tried analytically to find out, but unfortunately no one has been able to clearly interpret it, is a compulsory electoral clause that will be introduced for states that are large enough and have large circuits and choose relatively. Which means that the clause is very precisely aimed at Germany and Spain, where they happen to have parties that are not part of the great coalition coming into the European Parliament, and that large coalition of the European Parliament is missing it. That's the mandatory clause, two to five percent. As pirát, we have always fought against a mandatory clause, whether in the euro elections or elsewhere. We think there is no point, and there is no point in the European elections, where the coalitions and the factions are assembled at the European Parliamentary level, so there is no reason to build mandatory clauses. After all, in some states, the constitutional court rejected the mandatory clauses many times. And this is the way the European Parliament is trying, virtually. the majority in the European Parliament, former, has achieved that they can overcome this decision by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, we will not agree to this law in its present form, or we will look for some way to express our disagreement with this part. [[14.40 hours]] And the third thing I would like to mention is that part of this act was also a recommendation for states to introduce a correspondence choice, or another choice for their citizens. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic is one of the last countries that does not allow its citizens to make a correspondence choice. It seems to me that this is how our citizens are discriminated against by the citizens of other European states in their electoral law, so I have some amendments prepared on this matter. Indeed, 24 or similar numbers of European states allow their citizens to vote at least in embassys in foreign countries outside the European Union to vote remotely to vote correspondently. This is not possible for our citizens, and I think we should go this way. After all, I know that there is an activity involved, but I do find the opportunity of this European Parliament election law as a good opportunity to remedy this situation and allow our citizens to work and study in America, the UK, when the UK leaves us, New Zealand or anywhere else in the world, so that they can participate fully in the European elections at least in such a way that they can attend their embassy, if we do not give them the opportunity to make a correspondence choice. I would hereby announce the veto of two clubs, namely the Czech Pirate Party and the TOP 09, for the 90th hearing. Then I look forward to the next meeting, because, of course, at second reading, we would be reading the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u7	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared by Mr Ivan Bartoš. Excuse me? You're pulling back, okay. Mr Ivan Bartoš also withdraws. I will now ask Mr Dominik Feri to speak before the general debate and Mrs Pekarová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I applied to the debate about four months ago, so I have successfully forgotten what I wanted to talk about. But the Minister has said here that he insists that this draft be discussed in the form in which it was presented, that is, in an accelerated discussion. That's passé, that's right, that means I confirm the veto and we want to discuss it in the standard way. Colleague Adamová will come forward on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u9	You're right, Mr. Ambassador, it's four and a half months ago before we got to this point again. I shall now ask for Mrs Pekarová's performance, so far the last in line. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the main and, in fact, the only amendment to the draft law presented is the explicit introduction into the Czech legal system of the substance of the infringement consisting of voting in one election to the European Parliament more than once. A fine of five to ten thousand crowns can be fined for this offence. The draft law is the implementation of the Council's decisions to be secured by the elections to the European Parliament in May. For this reason too, it was proposed that in accordance with § 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies agreed with the bill in the first reading. Since that reason has passed, we are open to discuss the proposal in a proper legislative process. The veto has already been mentioned here. I think that it is therefore possible to discuss the proposal subsequently so that we can submit amendments to it. A total of eight articles are governed by the Council's decision, and only one of them is implemented by this amendment. The next two articles do not need to be implemented into the Czech legal system according to the petitioner, the other two articles are currently being applied and the implementation of the three articles wants to be left to the future political decision according to his words. This also applies to Article 4a, which allows Member States to introduce correspondence votes for elections to the European Parliament. The explanatory memorandum states that the introduction of alternative forms of voting in the Czech Republic must be subject to discussion. I therefore believe that this should not be the case here. The TOP 09 has been pursuing the introduction of correspondence elections for the second term. Our last proposal, under which Members from ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL and STAN are also signed, was returned to work at the end of last year. So we have completed the bill, we have prepared the comments, and today we have already announced that we are going to re-submit it. This week, therefore, the proposal will be re-submitted. As far as correspondence elections to the European Parliament are concerned, I believe that this amendment is part of the proposed amendment. If we implement the Council's decisions and are not pushed by deadlines now, let us implement it in an exhaustive manner and do not go the way of salami methods. Therefore, together, as has already been said here by Vice-President Pikal, we will put forward an amendment to this amendment, which will introduce the right correspondence choice for European elections. At present, 24 countries of the European Union are allowing correspondence voting. According to a survey by MEDIAN last October, 72 percent of Čech would have allowed people living abroad to vote by post. 79 per cent would allow those who are abroad for a transitional period. There is great support for the public, and yet the right to vote, which is generally one of the fundamental rights and is enshrined in the law of the highest power, both by the Constitution of the Czech Republic and by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, and is understood as individual, when everyone has the opportunity to decide whether to take part in the elections, to become a guarantor and a tool to protect the exercise of this right and a part of the electoral law that would comply with such principles, should therefore be a structure that allows them to actually participate in the elections, not to create procedural and territorial barriers for its application, but these barriers still exist here. There is a financial, territorial and time barrier for Czech citizens living abroad who want to participate in the elections. If they want to vote at the representative office, they often have to travel several hundred kilometres, take time off at work, pay for this trip, of course, and so on. These barriers make the exercise of their right to vote very difficult, but in extreme cases they make it impossible. That is why I believe that this amendment should go through the ordinary legislative process, and we should debate the possibility of introducing correspondence elections in committees and in second reading, adopt a consensual amendment which, in accordance with the Council's decision, implements a correspondence option in the Czech rule of law for elections to the European Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u11	I'll read the apology. Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes until the end of today's day, and between 14.30 and 15.30, Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Běhounek cancels his apology because he is already in the hall. Are you applying, Mr Strýček, for a general debate or for a final ruling? [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Yes, I'll get to that right away. I'll see if anyone wants to speak again in the general debate. Yes, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will speak in the general debate, so we do not need to limit you, you have a choice. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I wanted to thank Minister Hamáček for the fact that we agreed, in February or when we discussed this, on some consensual solution so that the rules for elections would not be changed shortly before the elections. I wanted to thank you for that. I also wanted to comment on the issue of elections abroad, especially in European elections. To me, it seems like a big mistake that, at a time when we are allowing elections from abroad to be made, we do not allow this in Europe, where it makes the most serious sense. I think there's an opportunity to correct this mistake and the discrepancy in our electoral system, and we should take advantage of it. I would very much advocate that we allow people abroad, whether in the short term or in the long term, to participate in elections in European elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u13	In general debate, Minister Hamáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u14	Thank you. I will only respond very briefly to the debate. I understand, of course, that every political party sees the issue of elections a little differently. There are different opinions on whether or not the elections are to be correspondence, there are different opinions on electoral systems, etc. So, of course, I cannot prevent any of the Members from filing various bills or amendments. I just want to point out that the Ministry of the Interior has been conducting consultations with individual political parties for a few months, say, a fundamental change in our electoral laws, the electoral law, and we are just trying to find a compromise across the political spectrum that will involve, for example, correspondence elections. We're looking for a way and a consensus on which type of options to make correspondence choices possible and how, and therefore if we don't want to change those choices by some kind of salami method, I would consider it best to wait until the end of this process. [[14.50 hours]] We plan to present the proposal in the autumn, or the consensus that we arrive at, to the government and then to the Chamber of Deputies. I say I can't stop anyone from doing his legislative work, but I would like to point out that there is quite a fundamental discussion here with all the political parties on how he should be and what the new form of elections, including the election of correspondence, should look like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u15	Thank you. And I'll look around. So Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u16	I just want to confirm, of course, that this discussion is ongoing when the Minister mentioned it. I think she's very well guided, and I thank you very much for her. Of course, there is a much wider spectrum of questions. It is precisely because, in the past, several attempts have already been made to address this broad spectrum of issues, which have then been lost, that is why we are coming up with this initiative in order to solve at least one question. But, of course, when this government proposal comes in and it contains these things, we don't pressure it to be necessarily this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u17	I will look around the hall to see if there is any interest in speaking in the general debate. I do not see any interest, so I am ending the general debate. And since there were vetoes of two MPs, and they were Pirates and TOP 09, it is therefore not possible to discuss the proposal at first reading. That means I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] Yes, the rapporteur, Mr Jiří Strýček, is interested in the final word. And the minister is interested in the final word? [[No.]] He doesn't. So, rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u18	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of two vetoes of two political parties, I ask you to release this law to second reading. And as a guarantee committee, I'd like to propose a constitutional committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-007-039.u19	So it's the Constitutional Committee. There. Now, the Minister said that he was no longer interested in the final word, so we will continue the discussion. And I don't have a motion to return or refuse, so now we're going to deal with the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. So first of all, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. Both the Organizing Committee and the rapporteur have proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee, and I ask if any of the Members have any other proposal for a guarantee committee. I don't see any other suggestion. So we will proceed to the vote. I'm gonna put in a gig so we can get to the conference room. I think we're in enough quantity here. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of being a guarantee committee in the Constitutional Legal Committee? Who's against it? Voting number 989. 180 Members are registered, 144 against 0 for them. The motion was accepted. And I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees. I don't see a suggestion. So this discussion of this proposal ends at first reading. The next proposal will be
