ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u1	34. Members of Vít Kaňkovský, Radka Maxová, Jan Bartošek, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Olga Richterová, Alena Gajdůšková, Marek Výborný, Marian Jurečka, Stanislav Juránek, Jiří Mihola, Ondřej Benešík, Vít Rakušan and Hana Aulická Jírovcová for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on granting benefits to persons with disabilities and amending related laws, as amended, and Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended /house print 267/ - second reading Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who is present and who I beg to take the floor, shall present the motion as the appellant. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can discuss this bill. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u2	Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, let me remind you of the aims of Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the benefits of people with disabilities, which was created in close cooperation with the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. This proposal follows up on our MP's amendment to the same law, which we advocated during the last parliamentary term and which was successfully approved at the end of the last parliamentary term in autumn 2017. While discussing the last amendment in 2017, I mentioned that it was not possible to introduce some other changes that I see as necessary and on which at least in material terms the composition of the Chamber of Deputies agreed at that time, and I must say that it also resonated in the Senate. I am thinking, above all, of the fact that there are some groups of people who suffer from diseases that seriously restrict the mobility of the person, but this is not a problem of the carrier or musculoskeletal system. For the sake of clarity, the law currently only affects people with severe visual impairment, severe hearing impairment, combined hearing and vision defects, people with severe carrier and musculoskeletal impairment and people with deep or severe mental retardation. Only for the mobility allowance can some other persons with another severe illness be able to achieve it if they are granted a ZTP or ZTP/P card. The Law on Benefits to Persons with Disabilities grants two types of contributions. The first is the mobility allowance, which can be regarded as a classic financial benefit, and the second type of contribution is the contribution to a compensatory aid, which is aid which is not covered by public health insurance, has a slightly different character. And here it is no longer a classic financial benefit, but a contribution from the State to a specific compensatory aid which aims to mitigate the social consequences of the disability of the person and serves to promote its social and social inclusion, which is precisely the difference between those health aids which are covered by public health insurance. It should also be said that these compensatory aids are subject to 10 per cent of the cost of the compensation aid. The amendment presented today deals with the second of these contributions, i.e. a contribution to compensatory aids, whereby the State grants a disability contribution to a specific aid which will improve its quality of life in his health, especially in terms of social and social inclusion. The proposed amendment aims to add three groups of diseases to the other part of this law, although they do not have severe disabilities in the carrier or locomotive system, but their mobility is significantly impaired by their serious internal diseases. Specifically, patients with severe heart disease, severe pulmonary disease, or severe lower limb vessels. All these diseases at an advanced stage significantly reduce human mobility, in some cases even worse than those with a carrier or musculoskeletal disorder. It must also be said here that these people can already reach the first type of contributions, which I have already mentioned, for the mobility contribution, but not for compensatory aids. And here it has to be said that these people are often able to take only a few steps alone for their severe internal disability, often they do not get out of their apartment, and without these compensatory aids they are only dependent on staying in their apartment. From this point of view, the mobility allowance already mentioned is more or less useless to them. This is why we want to bring these three groups of patients into force in the Act on granting benefits to disabled people so that they can benefit from compensatory aids. The second ambition of this law is to increase the maximum limit to some costly compensatory aids, which are a lifting platform or a sloping lifting platform. Here it is necessary to realize that these are really highly expensive aids, which, with a mandatory 10% participation, quite significantly burden both the patient himself or the disabled and his family. I must say that we have had quite a talk about this part of the change on the guarantee committee. I know that a proposal will be made for this part to be removed from the scope of this amendment. I must say that there really are various reports from the regions here. Unfortunately, the prices of these compensatory aids are not moving regionally in the same way. Firms are aware that they have a majority in some regions. I will leave this, of course, for the debate by my colleague Dražilová, who will submit an amendment to this part of the amendment, and it will, of course, be for the debate in the guarantee committee and then for the vote. However, I must say that I, too, was surprised by the differences in some regions in the cost of aids. [[11.40 hours]] As I promised at first reading, we started discussions with professional companies immediately after the end of the first reading, or even before it, or we actually continued with them, because they had already been intensely involved in the preparation of this amendment. Here I would like to commend and thank the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for providing us with an expert apparatus. We have met with all the representatives of the professional companies involved, and we have prepared a broader amendment, which has modified the diagnosis and/or the boundaries of newly adopted groups of patients, so that the workers of the Czech Social Security Administration are clearly given who will be newly introduced into the law. And I have to say that there has also been some narrowing, because, for example, in the original proposal, the group would be quite broad and, of course, it would have more significant budgetary implications. So we discussed the amendment on the Social Policy Committee. He, I think, recommended by all the votes for approval of the Chamber of Deputies. I am convinced that, with the adoption of this amendment and here at third reading, we are fulfilling the fact that the newly classified patient groups are actually drawing compensatory aids effectively so that only those patients who are actually benefiting from it are entitled to it. Finally, I have an ambition to present today in the second reading, in my opinion, both the number of patients and the budgetary implications of a minor amendment. We have been approached by a group of patients, which are patients with loss of both upper limbs or malfunction of both upper limbs. At the moment they do not have the opportunity to draw a contribution to the motor vehicle, which is discriminatory from our point of view, or mainly from their point of view is discriminatory. Here it needs to be realized that it may seem illogical, but these patients are not able to climb a tram or a bus separately because they do not have a grip, that is, without the help of the other person they are not able to use mass transportation and, of course, they often have a problem leaving their homes. From this point of view, I will present in a detailed debate an amendment that should be made to this narrow group of patients, according to calculations it should be about a hundred, a maximum of 200 patients who would be enrolled each year, and I think that it is only possible in the first run, so the budgetary implications in this regard are not large and would be eliminated in this regard the discrimination that is currently taking place here. Colleagues, colleagues, thank you for your attention. I would then very much like to ask you to support this proposal, under which representatives of other political groups are signed, so that we will, of course, approve it at third reading even after examining the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u3	I thank Mr Kaňkovský, who introduced us to this proposal from the point of view of the appellant. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee, and it was also addressed by the Committee on Health. The Committee's resolutions are available to us as House prints 267/2 and 3. The rapporteur for the Committee on Social Policy was Mrs Vrecionová, but Mr Jan Bauer will introduce us to discussing the proposal in committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy of 7 February 2019: "The Committee on Social Policy recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to this proposal, as amended by the amendment adopted." At this point, I would like not to read the whole one-page motion for a resolution, or, as has been said, you all have this adopted proposal from the Committee on Social Policy at your disposal in the system under No. 267/3. However, if I have just one more word, I hope that I will not embezzle the Rules of Procedure and the position of the rapporteur of this material, allow me just one brief remark, which has also been made on the Committee on Social Policy. It was said that the subject of this regulation is the extension of the disability circuit, which despite its seriousness has not yet been taken into account in the law. It's okay from there. The second area is the proposed adjustments: the increase in payments for some of the more expensive special aids, which I think is also okay. In the explanatory memorandum, you all have information that these proposals, unless decided otherwise, will have an impact on the state budget of approximately CZK 80 million. The Government has adopted a neutral position on this parliamentary proposal, but I am a little sorry that, on seven points in the explanatory report, it has indirectly ripped up this parliamentary proposal, but we will see how we deal with it. But, and now I'm getting to my rather systemic remark. Just for your information, the payment of this benefit, this allowance, is decided by the Labour Office, according to a single criterion, which is according to the level of income of this applicant, or according to the person considered. And really systemicly I am very sorry that there is a really big paradox in practice, and I have recently been really contacted by many people who have some degree of disability or are in a wheelchair, and it really means in practice that those who are actively trying to return to the labour market, who are looking for work, so paradoxically by this only one criterion, by earning money, receive a smaller contribution without in practice meaning that their demands or their requirements, so that they can go to work at all, are smaller than those who are not looking for work. For this reason, our parliamentary club wanted to prepare an amendment, however, when I entered into the system, which proposals are available at the moment, I am very pleased - and I assume that my colleague Richterová will still be discussing this in detail - that an amendment has appeared which addresses this problem. This is Mrs Olga Richterová and Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá proposal, and I would like to say that I am very pleased that this amendment is likely to appear at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies in a few moments' time, because we clearly agree with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u5	I thank Mr Bauer, who has introduced us to the Committee on Social Policy. Another committee dealing with this proposal was the Committee on Health. The Committee rapporteur was Mr Petr Pávek, who is not present. I would ask a member of the Health Committee to take the floor by introducing us to the committee. Anyone on the Health Committee. Yes, thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u6	Thank you. I would read to you the resolution of the Committee on Health from the 34th meeting of 9 January 2019 on the proposal by Members of Vít Kaňkovský, Radka Maxová and others on the provision of benefits to disabled persons and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, House Press No. 267. "After the opening word of MUDr. Vít Kaňkovský, representative of MPSV ČR MUDr. Alena Zvoníková, representative of MZ ČR profesor MUDr. Roman Prymula CSc. . and intelligence report Ing Petr Pávek Committee on Health recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the proposal by Members of Vít Kaňkovský, Radka Maxová, Jan Bartošek, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and others to the Act amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on granting benefits to persons with disabilities and amending related laws, as amended, and Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, House printing 267."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u7	Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová, for introducing us to the Committee on Health. I can now open a general debate, which I have done. Mrs Richterová is the first to be included in the general debate, and Mrs Dražilová will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I am very glad that we have finally managed to get this item into the discussion of this second reading. I am very happy for the work done in negotiations with the Ministry. And I think it's going to show that this is a rather consensual issue. My colleague Kaňkovský actually made a proposal to include persons with anatomical or functional loss of upper limbs. Me, too. I too have been given specific examples of how difficult it is to live without functional upper limbs or anatomically simply when one does not have the hands at all, and that is the case where we should give these people the right to a contribution to the purchase of a motor vehicle. So I'm assuming that we're going to have a little more discussion about this on the committee. But I really want to point out that this is not a small subject. It's very important for the few people involved. My amendment number is 2378. I'm still going to sign up for it in a detailed debate. But what I want to talk about most is what Mr Bauer has already sent, and this is really a situation which, I think, is a pity that it is with us, and it is an amendment that I submit with Mrs Andrea Brzobohata, it is a topic of how to functionally support people with disabilities, so that they are motivated to participate in life in society and not really trigger a legitimate sense of injustice today, that if I am entitled to social support as a disabled person, I am entitled to the full amount of the motor vehicle allowance, but if I go to work, I receive a significantly reduced contribution. So the guy who goes to work, goes on health, social security, tries, so then he's basically being punished for his efforts, demotivated. On the other hand, of course, our system offers ways of getting around this unfortunate situation a little bit. You can go to the spa, be on sick leave. For people who are entitled to a motor vehicle allowance, there is usually a very easy indication for sick persons. And the situation is that our state is already paying the maximum contribution to the motor vehicle to most people today anyway. The average amount of the figures from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is 197 000 of the maximum of 200,000. So, really, almost everyone is getting almost the maximum contribution today. Except, and that's the gros I'm putting on, they just have to cheat a little bit, and they feel really bad about going to work and trying to, you know, go to the other group that doesn't go to work. It seems to me that this is exactly a case of something where the budgetary impact will be really zero, rather positive for the social and health insurance contributions that will take place. And it is mainly in line with all modern trends. It's often people after injuries. In short, it is in the company's interest to encourage our involvement in the normal life of society. Of course, I have consulted with many of you on this proposal, and I understand the argument that if anyone has significantly above-standard revenues, those really could be justified by the increased level of co-financing. That is why I am putting forward a compromise, along with Mrs Brzobohata, of course. To maintain co-financing for those who really have a really high income, and thus to maintain the principle that they are now used to when assessing at the employment offices, only by increasing by a figure of 8, so as not to solve the amount of income eight times but sixteen times. Let me recap. It doesn't make sense for a working person with a disability to receive a lower car allowance than the one who is at home. I think the principle that work is to be paid off is also true in this area. At the same time, commuting to work wears out the car. This is another aspect that someone who regularly uses the car really needs to replace it after seven years. Another thing is that today is the average contribution of 197 000 from the maximum of 200,000 to the purchase of a car, or almost everyone has a way of achieving the maximum contribution. And by adopting Amendment 2383, we will just say yes, the one who tries will receive the same support from our state as the one who may not have the option, or has decided and is at home due to his disability. Once again, it creates a great sense of injustice and tension in a community handicapped. And I think, given that the budgetary implications are really zero, it is appropriate to consider the support. Whoever you have any questions, please don't be afraid to come to me. I'd be happy to explain anything to anyone. I think it's really just a technical change. And once again, I thank the rapporteur for this proposal. I think it really will make life a lot easier for thousands of people, not just those sick people, but also their families, if the bill passes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u9	Mrs Dražilová will also speak in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u10	Good noon. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, allow me, as has already been suggested here, to present to you my amendment to this House press. I agree with my colleague Kaňkovský's proposal, which concerns the part of the disability extension, which I am working on saying: heart, lungs, blood vessels. Indeed, these are diseases that are not visible and are very serious and that are really lacking in the list of disabilities. However, I do not agree with the part of the proposal relating to increasing contributions to the acquisition of oblique and vertical lifting platforms, where this amount should rise from 400,000 to CZK 500,000, or by CZK 100,000. This proposal is justified by the fact that it is no longer possible to purchase platforms for an amount lower, that prices range from CZK 550 000 to CZK 600,000, and are therefore unavailable for applicants, because they either need to obtain a sponsor's gift or cooperate with some foundation, because their price does not fall and the trend will rather be the opposite. I really cannot agree with this statement. I've visited several employment offices. I have statistics from the Directorate-General of the Labor Office that I would like to show you here. In practice, the fact is that there are companies that are able to produce these platforms and install them for about 350 000 CZK. I had statistics submitted for 2017 and 2018. A total of 329 platforms were paid in 2017, with an average of CZK 324 000. In 2018, it was 363 platforms and their average price was CZK 343,000. I thought it might be Prague, where the prices could really be higher, but the average price of the contribution in Prague in 2018 was even the lowest of all, namely 288 623 CZK. [[12.00 hours]] I cannot forgive myself for the fact that there is a really huge lobby of companies that directly attract customers at trade fairs that work with doctors and have contacts with the disabled, who cooperate with the applicant so that they even visit him at home and, on the basis of their power of attorney, offer to give him everything. No wonder the prices are rising. I would also like to comment on the fact that their price does not fall and will rise. In my opinion, the development trend will be what we allow it to be. And I don't really think we can get into a situation where companies dictate what the state has to do. That is why I tabled my amendment, which basically, in simple terms, concerns that the amount of 400 000 remain unchanged and I will sign up to it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u11	Thank you, ma'am. That was the last performance in the general... It wasn't. Mr Kaňkovský is still reporting in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u12	Good noon. Just a little while longer. I thank all the speakers for presenting their amendments and for supporting the largest part of this amendment. I've only had a short time. As far as Mrs Richterová's amendments to the upper limbs are concerned, that is where we met, except maybe by legislative means, we each have a slightly different treatment. As far as the second part is concerned, I agree that real work should also be paid out to disabled people. I will just go back to the past when I was talking about the 2017 parliamentary amendment, which was actually approved at the time when the House didn't work, when I was defending it in the Senate, so at the time we were the very property conditions and how it should have been for people who are disabled, but who have returned to work, addressed, unfortunately, that was not the will to approve this change, but at least managed to limit some of the senseless testing to social conditions in families. It also managed to promote an increase in the mobility allowance, which had not been validated for several years, and also reduced the time to buy a motor vehicle again from 10 to 7 years, because many of the disabled did not acquire a new vehicle, thus the ten-year period in the age of the car park was too long. So much for history. I'm glad the discussion got heated around here. Of course, on the guarantee committee between second and third reading, we'll still be discussing this in some way, but I think it's appropriate. As far as my colleague Dražilová is concerned, I actually came from the data I received from the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, and I am glad that she got the statistics. Unfortunately, some companies actually have the attitude that if they see a gap, they're trying to pawn the prices. Some of the rare cases are indeed documented, they are known to me as a doctor, and I can also prove the words of my colleague Dražilová that some - and I want to stress some - companies are very unserious about this. I have also experienced, it has been several years, very hard pressure from some companies, because I am an orthopedic surgeon to prescribe a patient, or to write him a statement that he needs some expensive tool. And then when we talked to the family about it, we found out that they wouldn't even be able to get the lifting platform into the apartment, but the company was putting a lot of pressure on the family, and then some tabloid media threatened to blur me there. So here with this proposal by Mrs Dražilová after the analysis she has obtained, I think I will have no problem, because we really need to behave effectively in this regard as well. So much for me to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u13	Thank you. Have a nice noon and now I'll look around to see if I have any more applications. I don't, so I'm ending the general debate and I'm asking for final words. Mr. Ambassador, are you interested? You're not interested. I will ask the rapporteurs - but the rapporteurs are also not interested. So I am now opening up a detailed debate, because here I have no proposals to return the law to the guarantee committee, etc., so I am opening up a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I would be the first to request a speech from Mrs Richterová and to prepare Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I therefore subscribe to Amendment 2378 on the ground that people with anatomical or functional loss of both upper limbs simply have a very difficult movement, are unable to carry loads, grab handrails in public transport, and therefore, for these reasons, the contribution to the purchase of a motor vehicle should also be granted to these persons. The second amendment, number 2383, together with my colleague Andrea Brzobohata, gives a brief explanation again. A person who works, contributes to the system and is disabled should be entitled to the same allowance for the purchase of a motor vehicle as one who does not go to work. Work's just supposed to pay off. And by making the average contribution almost maximum, it is evident that budget costs will be minimal today, but we will make it clear as the House that we support people to be active and that even if they need to have an accident and an accident, we want to motivate them to return to work after all their difficulties. So that is Amendment 2383. Once again, if you have any questions about him, I'd be happy to explain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u15	Thank you. I'll read one more apology. Mr Dolínek apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 12.50 am to the end of the day for working reasons. I will now ask for the speech of Mr Vít Kaňkovský and Mrs Dražilová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u16	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, as I have already announced in the general debate, I would like to formally sign up for my amendment under the number of House document 2379. This is where we meet Mrs. Richterová in a matter of fact. I have processed this amendment with MPSV legislation. This concerns functional and anatomical losses of the upper limbs. In the meantime, during the discussion, I was asked in the foyer if we had so many patients who lost their upper limbs by accident. Of course it's not. This also applies to patients who have a congenital defect of both upper limbs, and it also applies, of course, to people who lose their function during life from a neurological point of view. So much for a refill. So once again, I am signing up for this House document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u17	Thank you. I'll read another apology. For working reasons, Mr Daniel Pawlas apologises within 14 hours. And now, lastly, I call on Mrs Lenka Dražilová to present her amendment to us. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, have discussed my amendment in detail in the general debate. So I'm signing up for my proposal number 2698. Very briefly. The statistics of the authorities of the work I have submitted really show that there is no need to increase the amount of CZK 400,000 at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-21-ps2017-030-12-005-034.u19	Thank you. I do not have another application for a detailed debate, so I conclude a detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. There's no interest in final words. So I do not have any proposals that we should vote on, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. [[12.10 hours]] I have now noted that there is an agreement between the management of all the MPs that we would have already interrupted, virtually. They closed the 30th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'd rather look in the O.R., everyone's nodding that it's true. So we have two more votes - I respect this agreement, of course - first of all, the elimination of the remaining points returned and rejected by the Senate and then the elimination of the remaining, I mean the unnegotiated points approved by the 30th meeting. I will arrange for Members to come to the Chamber. [[He's waiting a while.]] I'll read what we're going to vote on. The first vote will be if you agree to take out the points returned and rejected by the Senate. These are points 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11. I'm opening the vote. Who's up for elimination? Who's against elimination? Voting number 1073, 149 Members registered, for 90, against 3. The motion was accepted. And the final vote. We will vote on whether you agree to eliminate the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 30th agenda. I'm opening the vote. Who's up for elimination? Who's against elimination? Voting number 1074, 149 Members registered, for 91, against 4. The motion was accepted. I hereby conclude the programme of the 30th meeting and end the 30th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a nice weekend.
