ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-005-115.u1	115. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Protocol extending and amending the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on scientific and technological cooperation signed in Prague on 27. 4. 2018 /house print 171/ - second reading I ask that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-005-115.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the justification for the proposal for ratification of the Protocol extending and amending the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on scientific and technological cooperation. This agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America was signed in Prague on 6 September 2007 and is currently the basis for broad research cooperation between the United States and the Czech Republic. This agreement defines the basic framework and rules for the creation of follow-up specialised arrangements, so it is of great importance because, for example, on its basis, an agreement has been drawn up between the MIT and the United States Department of Energy on cooperation in civil research and development in the field of nuclear energy. This is a concrete example of successful Czech-American scientific cooperation. But this is not the only example. Individual cooperation between Czech and American universities and research institutes, including supplies of materials and equipment for research infrastructure, which we have here nearby - ELI Beamlines - is also linked to the existence of the agreement for several billion crowns. Last but not least, the agreement is implemented by regularly announced public competitions to support research projects in cooperation of Czech and American institutions. For these reasons, I would ask you, or I suppose, and I consider the extension of the agreement to be very desirable. The Agreement is the basis for significant international cooperation, in particular by means of joint R&D&I projects, the priority focus of which is laid down in Article 1 (3) of this Agreement. The importance of the agreement suggests, among other things, an increasing interest in bilateral cooperation between Czech and American entities, and thus directly proportional to the number of bilateral projects supported in international cooperation programmes. I think that there is no need to speak further about the priority of Czech-American scientific and technological cooperation, but in general it can be concluded that the extension of the agreement is fully in line with the foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic. The proposal for a Protocol extending and amending the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on scientific and technological cooperation was submitted by the US Party, proposed an extension of the Agreement for a further 10-year period and technically proposed an amendment to Annex A concerning intellectual property. The other provisions of the original Agreement remain unchanged. The agreement and the protocol are in accordance with constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, with obligations arising from membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, with commitments taken over under other international agreements and with generally recognised principles of international law. The Government agreed with the proposal to negotiate the Protocol by its resolution of 11 April 2018 and the Protocol was signed in Prague on 27 April 2018. The Protocol was recommended on 20. 6. 2018 to agree to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security of the Senate of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-005-115.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mr Vít Rakušan, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as House Press 171/1. We do not have the rapporteur here, so please one of the members of the foreign committee present here to present and justify the committee's resolution. Mr Zaorálek will speak for the Foreign Committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-005-115.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I can therefore say that the Foreign Committee has properly discussed this government proposal for ratification of the protocol concerning the agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States on scientific and technological cooperation. The resolution we adopted, if I may read, reads roughly as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Protocol extending and amending the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on scientific and technological cooperation signed in Prague on 27. 4. 2018, empowers the rapporteur to report on the results and submit the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies." So this is what I'm doing for the rapporteur now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-005-115.u5	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a debate where no one is registered in writing. No one's reporting from the site either, and I'm done with the debate. Is there an interest in the final word? It's not. We can proceed to the vote on the proposed resolution. Is anyone interested in hearing the resolution again, or was it enough as the Member read it? That's enough, so we're gonna vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 78 registered 145 Members, for 117, there was no one against. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you, honourable Member. From today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Patrik Nacher apologises from 9:00 to 13:00 for the reasons of the meeting in the electoral region. Initiating item discussion
