ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u1	318. Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the growing anti-Semitism I would ask that Mr Jan Bartošek take the floor. And once again, I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. In recent years, this Parliament has spoken out against various modern forms of anti-Semitism. This monstrous ideology, as we know, has learned enough from history and instead of proclaiming straightforward hatred for Žid, both for individuals and ethnicity, it takes on itself mostly different forms of representation to enable the spread of its ominous message. Her favorite transformation of the last ten years has become a wannabe criticism of the Jewish state, Israel. Here, let me stress that Israel, of course, is critical, can and must be criticized as any other state in the world. But here it is important to emphasize - just like any other state. Not incomparably more, as is the case with Israel in the vast majority. One of the most common forms of anti-Israeli anti-Semitic activism is then in recent years hiding behind the letters BDS, or BíDýeS, an English abbreviation for Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions, i.e. in Czech Boykot, download investment and sanction. It is undoubtedly an attempt to isolate Israel not only economically, but also in all other ways, and to damage it as much as possible. It is certainly no coincidence that whenever we see images of anti-Israeli demonstrations from countries of Western Europe or the United States, we almost always encounter a poster with BDS written on it, and possibly some other one that urges the physical destruction of Israel. In this case, I am pleased to say here that the fact that there is a very low level of anti-Semitism and its various speeches in the Czech Republic continues. One of the lowest, both in Europe and on a global scale. In line with this fact, the BDS campaign still does not have any significant effect on us. But there are also individuals who are trying to initiate it. They mostly move on the radical edge of society, and their real impact is therefore relatively slim so far. There is no way that we should fall asleep on proverbial laurels. First and foremost, there are other generations that have no direct experience with criminal regimes that are more prone to accept radical rhetoric. We are an integral part of the European Union and, as such, we have our share of European responsibility and, of course, global responsibility. A few days ago, we commemorated the anniversary of the beginning of World War II, which brought with it in addition to the endless series of other crimes and sufferings as well as the Holocaust, i.e. the systematic killing of a particular ethnicity in order to completely wipe it out. Even this horror of its time began with only individual manifestations of anti-Semitism that eventually grew into the system, and we all know the rest of the story. I am very well aware that this comparison, which I have mentioned, is highly incorrect and does not correspond to the current reality. However, I used it so hard to commemorate one fundamental fact: every, even a small, evil, when left to be, always tends to grow uncontrollably. I would then like to make a motion for a resolution in a detailed debate, just as I have agreed to ask that Mr Janulík become rapporteur on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u3	Thank you. With priority rights, President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u4	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Let me also state the position of the SPD on this point. Allow me to take this opportunity to support the proposal tabled here. Our club and our SPD movement consider the State of Israel to be an example of a country that clearly and strongly defends its national and security interests. Our relations with Israel in all areas should be partnership and allied. Today, Israel faces similar problems and threats to European countries, but unlike European countries, it has full sovereignty to face these threats. I am talking here about the threat of globalism and, above all, the threat of aggression on the part of some Islamic countries and movements. Of course, anti-Israeli activists supporting globalism and multiculturalism projects consider the State of Israel unacceptable in its current form. Unfortunately, it is not an exception that anti-Israeli activities are very often supported by European Union funds. I and the SPD consider this draft opinion to be correct and we will support it on all points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u5	Thank you. I am initiating a general debate. At the moment, Mr Leo Luzar is the first to be registered. I see Mr. Veselý reporting from the scene.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u6	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are getting a political point on the agenda. A political point that is presented outside the consultation, outside the information, with one of the political clubs wanting to use the atmosphere and mood to enforce their name. I think it's wrong. But I understand what makes it possible for colleagues on the people's side. We don't have the text you want to get through. No one gave it to us. We're not familiar with him. We did not have time to consult him or modify him or ask for changes in this text. That's why, in the first step, I consider this to be a bad procedure. In the second step, I would like to draw attention to the laxity of this proposal, Mr Bartošek, through the President. After all, we ourselves are involved in the labelling of other states in the same way that you are now trying to defend against the State of Israel. Let's remember the russophobia, the sanctions we're trying to defend and impose on this country. And actually for the same reason that we take it that way, because there's a group of people that let the State of Israel see Russia very negatively and say, and so well and need to give them sanctions, they need to be economically forced to do so. And for giving yourself dots and putting in your reasons that you see within Israel. I see the reasons not only within Israel. I can see them even within the Russians that they put in there. But the result is the same. And on the one hand, we applaud, and on the other hand, here from the microphone you are offended by the fact that there are people in Europe who say, and we impose sanctions on Israel - according to the fact that the UN does not respect the directive, that it does not respect the laws of occupying a territory that does not belong to it. He's occupying the territory - alerting. Which was also an argument in Russia that he was occupying foreign territory. But it doesn't matter there. It's a problem here. So the flattery here in this proposal is obvious. If we talk about anti-Semitism, then let's really talk about it. Let's talk about moods, exclusion from the society of certain groups of people, and not just about origin, race, religion. Let us also discuss political views and others that separate people from society. And then let us look for a resolution capable of taking these matters. And I believe that this House in a vast majority, if not all will adopt such a resolution condemning any discrimination that might appear on our streets, in our media, perhaps even in this House. But what you said in the beginning is really, and I repeat again, some political flattery. I understand that Israel is close to you. But try to measure the same metro against all nations. Try to condemn the same methods and practices of the economic embargo as someone is trying to apply to Israel and to other states, because President Zeman is already clearly saying that economic embargoes do not lead to a goal. Yes, they don't lead to the target. And I'm going to use his words here because imposing an economic embargo will affect the citizens, not the establishment we're fighting against. It affects those it touches. That's why I think what you're saying is a fancy policy. And if you show me and present the motion for a resolution that I really don't have. And I can't comment on it, I'd be happy to argue with you over individual things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have one point of fact here. Mrs Richterová? [[No.]] Or maybe it's just wrong... [[That's right.]] So I'm interrupting. President Kalousek with priority rights, then Minister Zaorálek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u8	Thank you for the floor. Just short notes on my foreman. Mr Luzar has offended that, once again, we have a political point on the agenda. I would like to assure him that every point we are discussing here is political, because all proposals are subject to our political decision. And I cannot imagine how a top political body, which is the Chamber of Deputies, makes its decisions differently than politically. He's doing them politically, too. And so every point is political. So here's to the 365 points that are on the House of Deputies' agenda, we have one more political point. There's no need to be offended. I really don't think it's flattering or purposeful effort to become visible from the translator. Mr Bartošek has spoken from the soul of many of us who are in this Chamber of Deputies. We will simply consider the text and either support it or reject it by our own political decision. Frankly, I would be really surprised if the KSČM parliamentary club was going to support this proposal. His long-term views on the State of Israel are completely consistent, and I think we'll all survive. However, the Chamber of Deputies has a vote on this proposal. And I would like to express his support. I don't think he's flattering. I don't think anyone wants to make themselves visible. I just think that the Chamber of Deputies should support one of its closest foreign partners, which the State of Israel undoubtedly is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u9	Thank you. Let me read you a few apologies. Mr Josef Bělica apologizes between 19 and 21 o'clock for work reasons. We'll see. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes between 9 and 13 o'clock for medical reasons. And Mr Stanislav Juránek apologizes for health reasons until the end of this week. A point of fact - President Kováčik. Minister, you have to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask your assistance, Mr President, the honourable colleague Kalousek, not to prejudice the decision of the KSČM club. And to all of us - I know you know this - but only gently reminding us that at the beginning of the State of Israel was also very decisive in your view of Communist Czechoslovakia. Nothing is completely black or completely white. And our decision and our expression in the use of freedom of speech, I will remind you, is also bound by the fact that we want it to be measured in the same way to everyone. And we respect the State of Israel as a state that is a member of the United Nations is an ally of the Czech Republic. After all, I have been to Israel several times, and I know that to this day, Israel and its citizens and its politicians are very grateful to Czechoslovakia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u11	Thank you. And there are several other factual points that have provoked the performance. So first, Mr Lubomír Volný, then Mrs Černochová. All factual points. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u12	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that I personally support the State of Israel in its fight for its own security, I support the transfer of our embassy to Jerusalem. But at the same time, I would need to ask Mr Bartošek through Mr President and ask for more information on the wording of the resolution, because I really have no idea what to vote on, and the organisation he referred to, because I personally know nothing about it, I don't know what its objectives are, I don't know who founded it, I don't know who its members are, I don't know who it is, I don't know who it is, I don't know where it is. And since I'm an open-minded Democrat, I have a lot of people around me that I normally discuss their personal decisions with, so I know that there are people around me who are trying not to buy Mr. Babiš's products, I know that there are people around me who are trying not to buy products from Russia, I know that there are people around me who are trying not to buy products from China, I know that there are people who are trying not to buy German cars. So I would need to know if the organization that Mr Bartošek here is talking about is genuinely racist, anti-Semitic, or if it is an organization whose members simply promote their political views and political goals by not wanting to invest in the state of Israel, they do not want to buy Israeli products and call on their democratically elected legitimate political representatives to support them in their efforts. Because if this is an organization that is recognised internationally as racist, xenophobic, anti-Semitic, I will not have a problem supporting this resolution if I become acquainted with it. If this is merely another political activist movement at the level of the Million Moments of Hate, then I really have no idea why I should oppose the political, legitimate political views of some people on the action of the State of Israel, which, as the appellant has said, is not implausible. [[Time warning]] Thank you for this information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u13	Thank you. Another factual point, Mrs Černochová, then Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond to my previous speakers from the Communist Party, especially to my colleague Luzar, but also to my colleague Kováčik. He mentioned the United Nations here. And that may be where the dog is buried, my colleague, through the President. Because, unfortunately, it is the United Nations, which, though in its establishment charter, if I simplify it, had a completely different imagination, a different function. It is an organization that works together - its organization, such as UNESCO - doing international politics, which is the stumbling block. And that's wrong. It is not only the European Union, but it is a UNESCO that Hamas and Hizballáh do not consider terrorist organisations. Fortunately, in this regard, the United States' vetoes took place. I would also like to say to Mr. Luzar, who will at least be able to respond to me. [[The President is asking for peace in the hall.]] You see, my colleague, through President Vondráček, do you know the difference between Israel and the Soviet Union? Israel never occupied us or sent us a friendly army.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u15	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Luzar, Mr Kalousek is disturbing his point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u16	I'd take the liberty of asking the Palestinec how they feel about the occupation, and they'll... [[Voice from the O.R.]] You don't care about Palestinec, I understand, we're just playing on Czech soil and we don't care about foreign misfortunes. But you should consider that a little bit, because, of course, it's a nation, and it also has human rights. As far as the UN Council resolutions are concerned, let us also say that when such resolutions are adopted, that means that it has been adopted by supporters of both views, both by the United States and by the Soviet Union, by the way, by Russia, and it has been discussed. And these are UN resolutions that should be binding in international law. They're not. Okay. But that wasn't why I wanted to get out. I wanted to respond to my colleague Kalousek through you, who rightly named us politicians. But to be a good politician, my colleague, I need to get acquainted with the materials. Just as the law is purely political, I need to get it, I need to be able to discuss it, I need to get acquainted with the expert opinions of people who deal with this matter in detail so that I can express myself clearly as a politician. If you're telling me to leave all this because there's some current topic that there's an organization that I don't even know, I've heard that shortcut for the first time that something's going on here, that there's a resolution that no one's ever been given, so forgive me, this is not politics, this is politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u17	Thank you. Another factual point, Mrs Černochová. No? It's jamming. In that case, with priority rights, Minister Zaorálek was served. Then the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wish you good day. It didn't make me say anything about this. There are several such neuralgic points in the world. One is precisely the point on which it is a resolution. I would just like to point out here that I have always considered it right for Czech foreign policy in this area to make a balanced policy such as Václav Havel, who, when he visited the area, treated Jásir Arafat, I repeat, dealt with Jásir Arafat, and treated Israel's political representation as well. And this, which was accepted from the beginning, that we were actually partners on both sides, this gave the Czech Republic a chance to play a fairly significant role in this area. But it was based on the fair approach to both sides. And I can tell you that it was a policy that I've devoted quite a lot to. It even worked so that when I visited Jerusalem, I ran over from Jerusalem to Bethlehem and Ramallah and continued the conversation with the Palestinian Party. And now that I can tell you more, I've basically been passing messages from Prime Minister Netanjahu to Abbás and ministers to each other, wondering how difficult it was for them to communicate with each other, and actually working as a mediator. And I can assure you that from the Israeli side this role was not only acknowledged, that they accepted it, that they welcomed it, but that I may even be able to suggest what I never spoke publicly about, that here in the Czech Republic I organized meetings that are still unknown between the Israeli and Palestinian parties. This is perhaps proof for you that both parties wanted this role of the Czech Republic. But if you want to play such a role in diplomacy, then you really need to proceed very balancedly, caringly weigh every word so that both sides respect your role. That is why every word of the resolution is extremely important so that it is fair and that no party feels that the rule of equal treatment is violated. So I say that the role of Czech diplomacy in this area will only work if we are anxiously fair to both sides. And if we don't do it and we're one-sided, we're just gonna have a smaller part. And I'm convinced that it's not like we're gonna be less friends of Israel, you know, like we're gonna lose it. Because I am absolutely sure from these personal negotiations that Israel has wanted such a fair role more than to adopt every week the resolution we support it. So that's why I think it's right here to suggest that such a thing that I attach to such a weight, every word to discuss it by the foreign committee, that the foreign committee invites experts when I know that they want to do it even, because I have worked with that foreign committee until recently, so I know how it works that they want to deal with just how to formulate such a text in a way that allows Czech diplomacy to continue the tradition of the role we have there. I do not want to deny Parliament the right to speak freely, sovereignly, because that is an inalienable right of parliament. But diplomacy is a difficult thing to do. Do you understand? Diplomacy is an area of activity that cannot even be transparent. And I'm saying it hard. If diplomacy is to be transparent about everything, it will not exist at all. It's just that diplomacy is so complicated. Often when someone is a foreign minister, they can't even tell you things completely openly here, because it would destroy what they're doing. [[10.30 hours]] That's why I think it's worth letting the foreign committee know that he's been honest about it, and I was driving him, so I think I know that we've been trying to do these things honestly to get him to have the opportunity to discuss this and to have the opportunity to stand up to it. That's just my position, which I feel I'm obligated to give or recommend here. Looks to me like it's the right procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u19	Thank you to Minister Zaorálek. Now the rapporteur will take the floor and I have a factual point. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor. I still have a factual comment by Lubomír Volný, so I will ask, in fact, first of all, the rapporteur, yet. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to see some non-attached members from the movement. Uniform and alternative for patriots to support the proposal of their previous speaker to discuss this point on the foreign committee. I would also like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr. Janulík, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It reminds me of the story that we meant well, but it's gonna turn out like usual. It seemed so clear and easy. It's just that I'm at the Margo of my colleague Luzar, the call on the same subway, I hope he doesn't take it badly, it's far-fetched. At least from my point of view, of course. Because no one else has to suffer the Holocaust, so the same subway can be discussed. I understand that diplomacy through the mouth of the Secretary of State must be cautious. We're not diplomats, we're the legislature, so we don't have to, at least I think we don't have to follow his rules. Although, of course, we have to consider too, but here it seems to me, at least I had the feeling at first that it was very clear, because if someone is using UNESCO, which I consider to be quite obvious, basically political things, it completely misses the original intention that UNESCO was set up with. The fact that I stand here that, of course, the result of being the leader of a group of friends of Israel is here, if I am not mistaken, to date 55 of the 200 Members, so we are the strongest group, so it seems logical to me that it is not that we are adopting resolutions every week, certainly not, but if it is such a flagrant, so it seems logical to me that we are going to express ourselves in some way. I understand my colleagues say that because they don't follow the situation, so maybe they don't have to get into it too much, I understand that, too. But whoever's orienting it has been observing the change in tactics for years and the slight kicking and the slight progress in quotes within the limits of the law that is constantly directed against the State of Israel. And I'm sorry, I've heard a reservation here that anti-Semitism is not the same as anti-Israeli. It's mixed with me. If anyone is against Israel, from my point of view is anti-Semitic and that it is wrapped in different things, that it is supposed to look like a boycott, that it is perhaps economic and it is not political - no, it is always politics and it is always just anti-Semiticism, but it is simply in a different coat. However, it turned out the way it did. I am of the opinion that he could, I suppose, discuss this next week with the Foreign Committee, so that when we meet here next September, we can also comment on this by voting. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u23	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Janulík. I have here Mr. Veselý's application and two factual points, Leo Luzar and Pavel Bělobrádek. And a proper application, Mr. plaintiff, okay. So now Leo Luzar's point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u24	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. It's really far-fetched. I'll confess. Because mixing the UN Security Council with the UNESCO organization is indeed a possible misunderstand of the fundamental meaning of these organizations. You can't see it like that. And if we are to abide by international law, and I am glad that this international law applies since the end of the war, then we should respect it. And we've been witnessing some serious violations of international law lately. I'm stressing, on all sides. I'm not and I'm not illusioned that they wouldn't try to bend the international law of different parties. But that's what these resolutions are about Izrael. And the question is whether we're going to ignore them and say they made the wrong decision then, that's wrong, and we're going to break it or not. This already depends on every legislator, how he will look at it and what signal he will send to society, what he considers important in international law. But what touched me internally is the concept of a holocaust. It's like one victim is smaller than the other victim. It's like one life laid out for another is less valuable than another life. And here I want to remind you, because today we are witnessing what is happening around Russia, Marshal Koněv and others, that they have given their lives here for our lives, the Slovan, millions of Rus. And yet there is russophobia, and you yourself have said, colleague, through Mr President, that you see it the same way. Anti-Semitism against Israel, that's too bad. And I see anti-Russianism against Russia, it's bad, too. And from this point of view, I think you're wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u25	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for your point of order. Mr Bělobrádek's point of fact now, then my colleague Černochová, Volný and Válek. So colleagues properly logged in Veselý and Bartošek will wait for factual remarks. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I do not know that Georgia or Ukraine would seek to destroy the state of the Russian Federation. I don't know if they'd attack her. That's the first thing. The second thing is that I would like to apologize here to Minister Zaorálek, because at the time he was visiting Palestinian territories, I was in a way harshly condemning it and did not know the details. So I want to apologize with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u27	I thank my colleague Bělobrádek for keeping time on the point of fact. Now Mrs Černochová's factual comment, Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Sorry to keep you, but if Mr Luzar's fellow Member can't work with information, I have to read it to him. UNESCO. History and organizational structure of UNESCO. UNESCO is an international professional organisation of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation based in Paris. The UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization of UNESCO was founded in 1946, not long after World War II, meaning a large number of human casualties, suffering and unprecedented losses on mankind's world cultural heritage. In 1972, the International Convention for the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage was unanimously approved at the UNESCO General Conference in Stockholm, which implies an obligation for the Contracting States to ensure the designation and protection of cultural and natural monuments. Can you tell me, Mr Luzar, through the Vice-President, where this creation act mentions that this organisation will deal with international policy, that it will judge what the State of Israel should or should not do or should not do, or should not do, the autonomous territory of Palestine?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Lubomír Volný now, then Mr Válek's colleague. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to reiterate once again that I personally support all actions by the State of Israel which aim to ensure the security of its existence and the security of its citizens. On the other hand, I cannot agree with some colleagues' views that whatever is anti-Israeli is also anti-Semitic, because, for example, I support President Trump. Am I pro-American or am I anti-American? Because for some people I am pro-American and for some people I am a fascist who opposes the fundamental principles of freedom that rule in the United States. Am I pro-Israeli to support the Likud Party? Or am I anti-Israeli when I support the Israeli Green Party? Because the political situation in both the United States of America and Israel, as in every representative democracy, is constantly changing and evolving. So, yes, let's support a fair approach to the State of Israel, support its efforts and fight for its existence, the security of this state and its citizens, but at the same time, let's really measure each of the same subway, because excessive protection of the State of Israel will instigate anti-Semitism. It's always like that - it's too bad for everything. Let's be rational, objective, let's talk about it. For the last time, I would like to say that I am really sorry that we did not have the opportunity to get to know the text of the resolution before this meeting, because we would have saved a lot of time and it would have been easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Vítězslav Válek also with a factual remark, will prepare Leo Luzar and then Pavel Žáček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u32	I am terribly sorry, co-workers and colleagues, for the urge, but I must, because I wanted to thank the voters for the opportunity to be here. It is a unique opportunity to hear some speeches by Mr Luzar through the President, because the combination of slavonicism, russophobia and holocaust, hear it Orwell, will write another chapter in 1984. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Luzar also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u34	Thank you. I'm glad that my words finally attracted the attention of someone, that he thought and listened. Unfortunately, he wasn't listening properly. Perhaps it would be worth it if he read the screenplay in context and looked at what the previous speakers said, which I responded to, and not just my words. And this concerns, by your means, even my colleague, Černochová, who correctly described UNESCO as defined, but did not understand that the UN Security Council is a slightly different body, with a weight other than UNESCO. And if UNESCO is interfering with politics, you're right. I too condemned their decision and voted against UNESCO doing this. But let us remember that over the state of Israel are sanctions of the UN Security Council, which says and reproaches something to Israel, and it does not do so, so maybe there are these things and these responses in the world. And mixing it together is really a problem, and it can't be done like that, because UNESCO is one of the United Nations bodies that I have a specific, clear goal in the field of culture and heritage care. But the UN Security Council is an executive body that can even decide to deploy troops on foreign territory entirely under international law. Let's see the massive differences in the seriousness of the organ itself. And we've completely turned away from the basic debate that's been put here. And I repeat, I just consider this to be a kind of flattering thing, because we're not familiar with it, we don't know what it is, it's presented immediately, it's not discussed, and now that I've had the opportunity to read these points, yes, there are points that I can sign immediately, I have no problem with that, because there are clear signals of anti-Semitism, and I deny that and I deny that, here these things, because, yes, I am aware of the historical context and I know how this nation suffered. But what's being shown right now is politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Pavel Žáček's factual comment and then a duly registered colleague, Veselý. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u36	Thank you for the floor. I think it is necessary to clearly reject the view of the KSČM and to try to compare Russian and Soviet imperial policy with the policy of the State of Israel. I think that this may be political from their point of view, but certainly ahistorical, because the so-called Soviet liberation of Central and Eastern Europe also meant building a Soviet empire that brought huge losses to those territories where the Soviet army entered. We all know about this. We recently recalled, by the way, the round anniversary of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, to which Soviet politics also played a role in the creation of World War II. Not to mention Poland, not to mention the occupation of Baltic countries, Besarabia and other territories. So it is necessary to remember this and I would certainly refuse that this Russian and Soviet imperialist policy should be linked to the policy of the defence state of Israel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point of fact, Leo Luzar. So I would like to give my colleague Veselý and Bartošek a word. Mr. Ambassador, you have a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u38	Thank you. I'll try to respond to a fellow speaker. The unintended spell - 15 hours ago, I'll quote. "If the Likud party wins the election, I will not be referring to a strategically significant part of the occupied West Bank," said Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanjahu. Mr. Colleague, the great powers of certain politicians at the expense of other nations appear in every society, whatever history it has.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u39	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and therefore now Mr Veselý. The plaintiff will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u40	Thank you for the floor. Because I have a procedural proposal, I didn't want to interrupt a factual discussion so everyone could say what they needed. I originally wanted to say some very similar things that Luboš Zaorálek said. He, as the most experienced and experienced foreign policy politician we have here, said very precisely. I have come to the resolution in a bit of a rut, so I also have to take a moment to think that it is a pity that we did not have it before, that we could not discuss it. How do I evaluate this resolution? It's kind of a combined resolution. On the one hand, and this has already been said, I would immediately support some parts of this resolution, but then there are parts of the resolution that I consider to be problematic, and I think that would require discussion, and therefore I will specifically propose what has been said here several times by many colleagues, which means that I propose that this item be interrupted and referred to the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u41	Should I take that as a procedural proposal? Yes, thank you. In that case, I shall put it to a vote without debate. I'm sure the plaintiff understands that, and I'm gonna go for it. I'm gonna ask colleagues who were in the lobby so they can... The procedural proposal that has been made is to interrupt this meeting until discussion in the Foreign Committee. So the resolution will probably be part of the meeting on the Foreign Committee. So this is a matter which is because the item has been properly included, the procedural proposal is for a decision to interrupt the item and we will continue it after discussion in the foreign committee. So, in my opinion, this is a matter that we can decide. We'll make the decision in the vote number forty-four. Madame Deputy Chairman of the ODS Club, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u42	I think that, given that some colleagues have complained that they do not know the contents of the resolution, this resolution should be heard here in a procedural vote because it can also be changed in the foreign committee and I think that we will not bend the Rules of Procedure in any way, when Mr Bartošek, the resolution to those colleagues who have raised objections here, that they do not know its contents, will read, please, nicely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u43	Madam Vice-President, I cannot do this because it is a procedural proposal that is without debate. I gave you my word because you represent the head of the club. I think this would be a bend to the Rules of Procedure by now. I have no objection to this, I think that this will normally be discussed in the Foreign Committee and then the resolution will be tabled and we can comment on it both in the original version and in the version discussed by the Foreign Committee. I also do not wish to bend the Rules of Procedure with my speeches. [[10.50 hours]] We will decide in vote number 44 on the interruption of the item to be continued after discussion in the foreign committee. You want to unsubscribe, I'll unsubscribe all of you. As soon as the number of applicants is settled, I'll start voting number 44. Who's in favour of interrupting this point? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 44 of 173 present for 148, against 20. The motion was accepted. I am interrupting this point and we will continue it after discussion in the Foreign Committee. The plaintiff is still reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u44	Colleagues, colleagues, thank you. I believe that this material will be discussed in the Foreign Committee. Believe me, what I have to say is that the state of Israel and the Palestinec really live in peace in the Middle East. This is indeed, I think, the aim of all of us, because peace in this territory is absolutely crucial for peace in the world and in Europe. Let's finish this. I spoke to the club president this morning. I was convinced that I gave the Communist Party, their representatives, a motion for a resolution. Sorry about that. I guess I just didn't come to you in that mess, so I'm sorry. Yes, it's behind me, I respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-001-318.u45	I thank my colleague Bartošek, to whom I have given my word off the mark because he is the President of the MP's club. We will now proceed according to the approved agenda, paragraph 215. It's about
