ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u1	313. Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the growing anti-Semitism Please have Mr Jan Bartošek and Mr Miloslav Janulík take the seats at the rapporteur's table. We have interrupted this item in the general debate on 11 September 2019 at the 34th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, pending discussion by the Foreign Committee. The Foreign Committee adopted Resolution No. 101 of 19 September 2019, which was delivered to us as House Press 389. At this point, I ask the foreign committee rapporteur, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch, to inform us about the committee's deliberations. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please be calm to hear the information from the Foreign Committee rapporteur on the meeting we have requested on this committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u4	We, as a foreign committee, dealt with this press at our last meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I ask for peace. Thank you. The rapporteur will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u6	Dear colleagues, we discussed this at our 33rd meeting on 19 September, when we had invited guests, we discussed the subject from the right, from the left, we dealt with the arguments. I am not going to read the whole resolution, because I am counting on the rapporteur to read it again, so I will not hold us back. Let me just introduce you to what has been said in this debate and what we will certainly be dealing with in some other debate. The resolution proposed is, I think, balanced, but of course, some will feel that anti-Semitism is mixed with the support of the State of Israel, which I, as rapporteur, must recognise. When it comes to the debate we had, it was mainly about the boycott of the State of Israel, it was mainly about anti-Semitism and the mixing of these things at once. There were arguments that said that the boycott of any state was the expression of a free word. It should not be reminded of things that have happened in the past. On the other hand, we know from history that the boycott itself, whether it be the Žid to the question, was bad, but nevertheless in this resolution, which I think is balanced, we must not forget that even though the State of Israel has our support, so if the State of Israel as such does not behave according to its expectations and according to how it should be, then the State of Israel needs to be criticised. All this has been said to the committee, and if the rapporteur has the floor, he will introduce you to the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u7	Thank you. Now the plaintiffs' representatives want to speak. Therefore, we should formally continue the interrupted general debate in which I have applications with priority rights. Therefore, I shall give my word to the plaintiff. I have a written application here that comes first. Mr František Navrkal, who, of course, speaks with the opinion of the Pirates' MP, has applied with priority rights to take precedence over other unspeakable applications with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Mr President Bartošek for the initiative to condemn anti-Semitism. The recent events in Halle confirm that neo-Naziism and anti-Semitism are still a living threat and that the žid are not safe in Europe, unfortunately, even in the 21st century. That is why I also want to add to the clear condemnation of all hatred of the Žid both in our country and in the world. However, what bothers me about the proposal is points 3, 4 and 5, which are quite different from the main topic when it talks about the boycott of the State of Israel. Such an effort to bring international political issues into the declaration of condemnation of anti-Semitism seems unfortunate to me. I am not saying that we should not deal with these issues, on the contrary, I myself have been active in this matter and have tried to communicate directly with the Israeli ambassador and a number of experts in the Middle East. There is certainly much more room for these debates than for this debate. Today we should try to reach a united position condemning anti-Semitism, and I fear that these points are an unnecessary obstacle. When they dealt with a similar resolution in Germany a year ago, the Bundestag had, paradoxically, harvested criticism from dozens of Israeli and Jewish academics, whose reservations were directed particularly towards an attempt to silence the criticisms of Israel's policy. You have certainly noticed that some of these academics, with similar reservations yesterday, turned to us in the form of a letter. As far as their reservations are concerned, in many ways I have to give them the truth, and this also stems from my skepticism against trying to smuggle some controversial points into our resolution. In particular, point 5 calls on the government to e.g. in the EU and the United Nations, it has refused financial support for organisations calling for the boycott of the State of Israel, yet it does not specify what is expected of the government and what is the very concept of boycott of the State of Israel. This interpretation uncertainty may negatively affect our academics, journalists or representatives of the non-profit sector. They would now have to wonder whether they would be punished for their participation in various international forums or for their critical views on Israel's policy. In addition, I believe that we are in direct conflict with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which clearly states in Article 19: everyone has the right to freedom of belief and expression, and this right does not allow anyone to suffer harm for their convictions. However, at point 5, we are explicitly in danger of this injury. That is why, through Mr President, I would like to ask the petitioner how specifically he is imagining the application of this point. [[14.40 hours]] Finally, I would like to call on you to focus on what is really important and why we are here today. Let us condemn, unitedly and clearly, any displays of hatred against the Žid and do not meditate and disregard this symbolic act of polemics about international politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u9	Thank you. And now to do the right thing. So, with priority rights, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura, after whom the plaintiffs' representative, President Bartošek, will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, almost half of Europe's young Žid, according to a new European Union survey, are considering emigrating, leading them to fear and concern for their own safety. It is the enormous increase in anti-Semitism, for which young people are afraid to carry religious objects on European streets or openly report to their Jewish origins. Kantor's Center published a separate report in May, according to which attacks against Žid increased worldwide by 13 percent last year. The steepest increase in anti-Jewish attacks was in Western Europe. Most in Germany, where there were 70 percent more compared to the previous year. We used to associate anti-Semitism with some neo-Nazis. First of all, however, we should say that the largest number of anti-Semitists is among Muslims. For example, the European Union coordinator for combating anti-Semitism, Katharina von Schnurbeinová, said - and I quote: As far as anti-Semitic prejudices between the Muslim community are concerned, we know that they are two or three times higher than in the majority population. End of quote. It's got logic. And even in the Czech Republic, as we know from public sources, Muslims prayed and may still pray for the destruction of the State of Israel. Hate towards Israel is a link between Muslims and other factual anti-Semites, European liberals and European so-called. ultraleft. Here I would like to remind you that our SPD movement has always been pro-Israeli since the beginning, because we consider Israel and the Izraelec to be our true ally in the fight against Islamic terrorism and as a country and nation, which has been very close to Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic since its birth. And in a large number of topics, he should be a role model for us. Israel and the Jewish nation of Israel show that even a small ten million nation can resist the multiple outnumbers that are actually surrounded. For your information, the Bureau of the SPD, for example, already on December 19, 2017, called on the Government of the Czech Republic to move the office of the Czech Embassy to Jerusalem, because we consider Jerusalem as an inseparable capital of the State of Israel. Fortunately, in the Czech Republic, anti-Semitism is not a big problem except that it is taboo and basically comical to tell a Žid a Žid, only a Žid dares. Like Cikán, Cikán call themselves Cikán. This does not mean, however, that hatred of nations or other groups disappears. Sun cafe hates and spreads hatred against everything associated with Okamura, Babiš or Zeman. Ladies and gentlemen, Churchill said after the war that the next fascism would be marked by the fight against fascism. And today we are witnessing the mass spread of hatred against groups of citizens who have different opinions. These views are suppressed and their carriers are dehonested. Freedom of speech has disappeared, freedom of opinion has disappeared, another opinion, and their authors are labeled negative attributes instead of democratic debate on the substance of the matter. It ends with people being on the street from the so-called. Sunmen, or truth-tellers, attacked only for their own sakes. That's how fascism begins and begins. The SPD has experience with attacks on its members or sympathizers. Personally, I hardly perceive such displays of hatred against myself anymore, but sometimes I do not stop wondering. It has already happened to me that even the owner of a pharmacy in the centre of Prague refused to sell me drugs because I am Okamura and I have different opinions than he has. Ladislav Jakl was physically assaulted twice, and my coworker and child on the street threatened "lovers " of truth and love by hanging him and several times physically assaulted him. Here we see in practice the idea of democracy in the rendering of so-called. Sun-lighters pushed by mainstream journalists. These people should be aware that such antagonizing people against one another and inducing hatred against one's opponents may one day turn against one's own. And that's not good. Without realizing it, in the fight against alleged hatred in society, the media and politicians produce - I mean mainstream media and mainstream politicians - hatred real, on all sides. There's real danger here. Of course, the frustration of some citizens in a situation where migrants have more cultural and political freedoms than Evropan does, on the other hand, really leads to extremism in Europe's population. The best cure for all these hates is freedom and equal fair access to all. Because ethnic and other hatreds most often create a sense of injustice and injustice when the laws apply only to one and not to all. If we have banned Nazism in Europe, I miss why Islam's more dangerous ideology is allowed here. Let us stop the Islamisation of Europe, and the attacks on Žid and other Evropan will cease. Let us speak the truth about Israel and Palestine, and there will be no hatred of the Žid as well as of today's so-called. liberal society. Let us allow free competition of opinion and let us not strike and label, and will cease to hate fed only for political calculus. I know it's hard for someone, because emotions just belong to people. And believe me, I too will seek greater empathy and understanding of my political opponents. The perspective of our country and our nation is in cooperation, not hatred. Whether this hatred is spread against Israel, Russia, the US, or against competing political views and citizens who share them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have some factual points here, but perhaps it is just a remainder of the vote, so I will ask my colleague and colleagues, just in case: Mrs Šlechtová - she did not make a point of fact. Mr Kalous - neither did he. Neither did President Kováčik, nor did Mr Kohoutek, and Mr Martínek - he made a point of fact. It's okay now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u12	I would just like to briefly apologize to Mr Churchill's relatives for putting a statement in his mouth that he never said. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u13	Thank you. President Bartošek will now speak with priority rights as a representative of the appellants. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. First of all, colleagues and colleagues, let us say that you were willing and supported the inclusion of this item on the House of Deputies programme. I would also like to thank the foreign committee for the quality of the discussion and the comments that were made at the committee's meeting. In the same way, I would also like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which participated in the preparation of this resolution and some of its wording, and we have agreed on it. I originally had a slightly different motion for a resolution, but after reading the draft of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I agreed with it and I agree to vote on this form. I believe that Israel is our strategic partner and ally in the Middle East. We can see the growing waves of anti-Semitism in Europe, early October in Germany. And I believe that in such situations it is necessary to define clearly against these phenomena and to confess to our partners, with whom we have an alliance, and with the State of Israel in many sectors, not only in the field of science, but especially in the area of security. [[14.50 hours]] I believe that if the State of Israel did not exist, the situation in Europe would look completely different. For this reason, too, I believe that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give a clear and understandable position in condemning any form of anti-Semitism, including those directed against the citizens of the State of Israel. I am also convinced that we must define ourselves against some things, because the forms of boycotting the State of Israel take different forms, often sophisticated, intelligent, perhaps even more dangerous. For this reason, it is necessary not only to define itself against this behaviour, but I would also like the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution when we will call on or ask the government to oppose the financing of such organisations that are acting against the State of Israel. Israel as a state - and this has been said here - if it behaves indecently, it is full of the right to criticise it. That, of course, is legitimate and all right. What is important is that Israel is taken the same meter as all other states. I will mention here, I will read the motion for a resolution, as my colleague Bžoch said in his speech, and I will only refer to it in a detailed debate. "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. strongly condemns all manifestations of anti-Semitism against individuals, religious institutions, organizations, as well as the State of Israel, including Holocaust denial; II. rejects any questioning of the right of the State of Israel to exist and defend; III. condemns all activities and statements of groups calling for the boycott of the State of Israel, its goods, services or citizens, whether in the territory of the Czech Republic or in international fora; IV. Calls on the Government, both at home and in international relations, to strongly oppose all forms of anti-Semitism and the boycott of the State of Israel; V. calls on the Government to reject financial support from the sources of these organisations for such movements, organisations and associations that call for the boycott of the State of Israel in the European Union, the United Nations and other international institutions; VI. Recommends to the Government, both at home and within the European Union, to intensify anti-Semitism prevention activities and to promote greater security for individuals, organisations and institutions that could be targeted by anti-Semit attacks.' As was said on the Foreign Committee, a request was made as to whether the individual points could be taken I to VI vote separately. I agree with this request, and after voting on the motion for a resolution, I would ask that we vote on individual points separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u15	Thank you to President Bartošek. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Vojtěch Filip, has also signed up with priority law. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u16	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, I will be brief. My colleague Bartošek is making it easy for me. I just wanted it to be voted on on a single basis. On Saturday I had a chance to speak with the Chair of the Communist Party of Israel at an international meeting and she too is very critical of individual steps of her own state. When we formulated our position on Turkey's aggression in Syria together, I think we have very much agreed, and the interests, for example, of Turkish, Israeli, as far as states are concerned, are certainly different in this matter. But it is precisely from the point of view of international law that this UN resolution, the decisive one, is that there will be two equal sovereign states, the State of Israel and the state of Palestine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u17	Thank you. We are now continuing the debate with the speeches of those Members who are enrolled. Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný is the first to speak, after which Mr Luzar will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u18	Thank you, Mr President. My performance will have a few points. The first thing I would like to start with is that I would like to reacquaint all Members with the text of the letter and the call that everyone has received with certainty in their emails. I hope this isn't some Russian counterintelligence or Russian troll action. Mr Joe Feinberg Grim, Markéta Hrbková, Magdalena Křížová, Carolina Sidonová, Pavel Sterec and Vít Strobach are signed under this letter. And these people also published this article on the British newspaper that they are all members of the organization Jewish voice of solidarity. Now I'm gonna read the lyrics to the article. The Jews of the association on the platform of the Jewish voice of solidarity turned to members of the PSP of the Czech Republic so that they would not support the opinion on the growing anti-Semitism submitted and recommended by the Foreign Committee on Tuesday's vote. The text of the opinion contains a number of controversial wordings in which the critical attitude towards Israel and the related civil activities are improperly mixed with anti-Semitism. Although the proposal does not mention it directly, the Parliament's forthcoming position is focused primarily on the international solidarity movement with the Palestinians and on the boycott of the State of Israel, the withdrawal of investment and sanctions - a movement known under the English abbreviation of the BDS, which was the original part of this resolution. The resolution is based on the assumption that the boycott of the State of Israel or any challenge in this direction is part of anti-Semitism. We think that's absurd. First, because the clearly declared motivation of BDS activists and sympathizers is the emphasis on respect for the human rights of Palestinec and other minorities, not the attack on the Jewish people, individuals or collectives. Furthermore, because the criticism of a particular state or regime or the activist political pressure on it cannot, in our opinion, be seen as a display of hatred for people living in that state, the signatories point out in a letter to Members and point out, for example, the recent call for boycotting Turkish goods in connection with the current situation of the Kurd, which are also not regarded as an expression of racial hatred for the Turk. The letter also points out that boycott is a nonviolent method of civil pressure from below and that support for the right to boycott, which belongs to freedom of speech, has in the past expressed a number of foreign and international organisations and high-ranking political actors, among other things - that could interest all liberal democrats in this room - Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, American Civil Rights Union and many others. Four dozen Jewish organizations around the world have also expressed their discontent with cynical and false accusations of anti-Semitism in connection with movements such as the BDS. We know that although the views on the roots and solutions of the Middle East conflict may vary, there is a consensus, openness and an effort to be objective without unnecessary and purposeful defamation in the debate, they conclude their letter from the Jewish voice of solidarity platform. It was created quite recently and its statement, highlighting the attitude of solidarity with oppressed Nežid and non-Jews as well as the attitude of critical thinking, can be found on their Facebook pages. Now the text of the letter itself. Madam, honourable Member, as: The Jews of the association on the platform Jewish voice of solidarity want to express their opposition to a number of wordings in resolution 101 of the Foreign Committee of the PSP CR to discuss the opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the growing anti-Semitism that the House has on the agenda tomorrow. In our view, this document mixes Israel and the Jewish community in the first five out of a total of seven points in an impossible way, targeting anyone who criticises the State of Israel more sharply as a potential anti-Semite. [[15.00 hours]] We are aware of the burning issue of growing anti-Semitism in Europe and the necessity to combat it. After all, the recent murderous attack on the synagogue and the Jewish cemetery in Halle, Germany, by the sympathizer of neo-Nazi ideology right on Jom kipur's holiday, is evidence of how extremely dangerous these moods are. However, we do not believe that political pressure against Palestinec rights activists, namely those who call for a peaceful boycott as an instrument of civil political pressure on the State of Israel, is involved in the fight against anti-Semitism. Although not specifically appointed in the Foreign Committee resolution, it is particularly the BDS movement. The resolution is based on the assumption that the boycott of the State of Israel or any challenge in this direction is part of anti-Semitism. We think that's absurd. First of all, because the clearly declared motivation of BDS activists and sympathizers is the emphasis on respect for the human rights of Palestinec and other minorities, and not the attack on the Jewish nation, individual or collective, and beyond, because the criticism of a particular state or regime or the activist political pressure on them cannot, in our view, be seen as an expression of hatred for the people who live in that state. The most recent case may be, for example, recent calls for boycotting Turkish goods to deal with Kurd - challenges that some would hardly consider anti-Turkish hatred. The three requirements of the BDS movement - termination of occupation, full equalisation of Palestinec living in Israel and recognition of the right of return for refugees - are evidently based on the generally acceptable requirement of equality and their motive in no way is the destruction or threat of the State of Israel, let alone hatred of the Jewish nation. Surely it is not necessary to agree completely with the demands of the movement, but there is also no reason to exclude them from the debate in advance. Similarly, this is true of the chosen boycott method seen by the BDS as an extreme, but effective and still non-violent way of making a citizen's contribution to the pressure to improve the situation of Palestinec after other non-violent means have failed. We do not need to accept it as our own, but we do not deny others the right to express this way of civility. Finally, it shows how absurd it is to identify the BDS with anti-Semitism, as well as the broad support of this movement among liberal-minded Žid both in Israel and in the world. The movement itself was supported by dozens of Jewish communities around the world, including the major American organization Jewish Voice for Peace or the Israeli platform Boycott From Within, which also joined the challenge of Czech Members. The rights to boycott as a civilly expressed form of protest protected by freedom of speech were also defended by the respected international organization Amnesty International, the head of European diplomacy Federica Mogheriniová, Dutch Foreign Minister Bert Koenders or the respected American Union for Civil Liberties. In 1982, the US Supreme Court found politically motivated boycotts and calls for them as activities protected by freedom of expression. Thank you for the attention you paid to this letter. We believe that, although the views on the roots and solutions of the Middle East conflict may vary, freedom, openness and an effort to be objective without unnecessary and purposeful defamation is to be discussed, and that you will contribute to this freedom in your own voice. With respect for the Jewish voice of solidarity already appointed by Joe Feinberg Grim, Markéta Hrbková, Magdalena Křížová, Carolina Sidonová, Pavel Sterec and Vít Strobach. If I read a name in the wrong way, I'm sorry, it was definitely not an intention. This position of part of the Jewish community represented by this organization The Jewish voice of solidarity reflects precisely the position of Members of the Unite movement, who will by no means vote in favour of this resolution if the above points are passed on each vote. Unfortunately, we ourselves live in a country where the Constitutional Court has confirmed that racism and political discrimination are legal means of expressing its political opinion in that country. The Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic allows you to racistly identify your client as a member of the Russian Federation and allows you to carry out a hateful survey of his political views on him, and if his political views are not identical to yours, then you do not have to provide him with any service. It may seem strange to you, you may not have noticed this situation, but, yes, if you are an entrepreneur who is otherwise not allowed to discriminate against anyone, you may in the Czech Republic, racially and xenophobically, refuse to serve anyone you identify as a member of the Russian Federation and who does not have the same political views as you. It's a shame, it's a disaster, I fundamentally disagree with it in this case, but on the other hand, I think the hotelier in question has the same right not to take Russian gas, if he doesn't like it, not to ride Russian petrol, has the right not to buy Russian food, has the right not to buy anything from Russia, has the right not to invest there if he doesn't want to. And that's the basic difference. So we really cannot support anything in this resolution that would go against at least part of the Jewish community's views to make people who merely express their political opinion considered anti-Semites. I would like to draw particular attention to this, in particular, to my colleagues who consider themselves to be liberal democrats, because this is the view that their liberal colleagues share in the State of Israel. This is one point of my performance. The second point concerns the growing anti-Semitism in Europe. Just like I chose a server for my first performance, where my colleagues could verify whether it was a pro-Russian server, or if Putin was paying for it, the server is called British Leaves, so for the second part of my performance, I chose a server called Watchdog, so I would like the same check. And it's an interview of the hlídací in the middle of last year with the director of the Jewish Museum Leo Pavlát. One of the questions was: Is it really that anti-Semitism is on the rise in Europe? And the answer from the director of the Jewish Museum was: "According to the information available, yes. " Now comes an interesting list of countries: in France, Belgium, Holland, Great Britain, Sweden, newly in Germany. In the first half of 2018, 10 percent more anti-Semitic attacks were recorded in Germany compared to 2017, when there were 1,453 cases, on average four daily. The increase is much greater now. It's also linked to the immigration wave. And I would like to discuss the resolution against the growing anti-Semitism in Europe so that we can be honest and honest with each other. The growing anti-Semitism, not anti-Semitism itself, really there are people who hate the State of Israel who hate Žid who have a pathological relationship with them, and they are people who have always been here in Europe. But the number of these European anti-semites is far from growing. Neither does their aggression. They're still just as aggressive. What is growing is the number of anti-semites that we have successfully imported into Europe. That is why anti-Semitism is growing in Europe. I did not find any of this in this resolution. The next question of the probably pro-Russian Watchdog server to the director of Mr Pavlát's Jewish Museum was: "Is it true that anti-Semitism is growing in Europe because of immigration from the Muslim world? " This cannot be deduced from the figures given by the German analysis, but data from Great Britain is needed. There Jewish organizations set up CST, Community Security Trust, a service to guard Jewish communities and monitor anti-Semitic incidents. And this source states that anti-Jewish attacks are involved in a disproportionary number of Muslims. The European Muslim community has a major problem with anti-Semitism, and if we, as most of us, do not realize this and we are cowardly to admit it, then the žid will be even more persecuted in Europe, because their numbers in Europe are constantly growing thanks to illegal immigration, and with the sense of impunity that the Muslim community is gaining for these attacks, it will be much harder to carry out some integration work among them. We can get into the same situation as the English police, which apparently covered up mass rape of English girls by Muslim gangs after a decade because they were afraid of being accused of racism. So let us be bold and not be afraid to name the causes of growing anti-Semitism in Europe. The reason for the growing anti-Semitism in Europe is the immigration wave from Muslim countries. [[15.10 hours]] On the last point, when I propose an amendment to our resolution, I have again selected a few disinformation servers from which I will quote to you: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man On the outskirts of society. Israel is not only hard on African illegals, the Falaš live in isolation. Radiovaticana.cz - Israel decided to expel the South Jihosúdánec seeking asylum. According to SIR, the decision of the Jerusalem Court also concerns other Afričan on Israeli territory. Then I've got a little bit of 2013 news, by the way. Saudi Arabia expels 4 million migrants. Quite an interesting message, although it doesn't belong here. == sync, corrected by - In protests at the Gaza Strip border, Israeli soldiers shot one Palestinec, 50 others injured. == sync, corrected by elderman == Israeli soldiers shot another Palestinian child. Lists of reports - Israeli soldiers in Gaza shot three Palestinec, including an 11 - year - old boy. Hospodarske noviny - Israel called the death of Palestinian children playing football a tragic incident. He won't punish the soldiers. Echo24.cz - Armed Palestinec tried to penetrate Israel. Soldiers shot four of them. Lidovky.cz - Palestinec protested at the Gaza Strip. The Izraelec killed six of them, including two children. My favourite ČT24 again. Thousands of Palestinec demonstrated at Gaza's borders. Several people died, dozens suffered injuries. ČT24 again. The Jewish state is seventy. The bloodiest day since the war in 2014 has claimed dozens of Palestinian victims. Israeli soldiers shot 55 Palestinec in new protests in the Gaza Strip. The Palestinian authorities have informed about this. Between the dead, according to Reuters, there's a 14-year-old boy and a wheelchair. Another 2,700 people are injured, most of which have been shot. I think that might be enough of those major disinformation servers in our republic. I would like to say that I will then request in a detailed debate on the addition of a point that will be... I might need some advice here. I would like to add to paragraph 2 - The Chamber of Deputies rejects any questioning the right of the State of Israel to exist and defend - the following sentence: "The Chamber of Deputies appreciates and respects the willingness and determination of the State of Israel to defend its borders, citizens and independence and the means of death and agrees with the uncompromising implementation of Israeli immigration laws." Because this resolution, which is proposed in this Chamber of Deputies, is first of all toothless, second of all unnecessary and third of all unsolvable. Because here, my dear colleagues, together with us, we will either support Israel as it is, that is, Israel fighting and Israel in the name of its own existence and killing. Because sooner or later, in the opinion of many members of the Jewish community here in Europe, we will be in a similar situation. Based on the second immigration wave going on, I'd say it's gonna be sooner than later. And it's up to us here in the House to think about whether we're going to act like the English police and retreat from violence from the ranks of positively discriminated communities, or we're going to call things real names and prepare ourselves for such an active defense and such an uncompromising defense that the state of Israel has had to show many times in the conflict with Muslim radicals. And not only with these Muslim radicals, but also with illegal migrants. I do not say this often, but perhaps we could take an example from Saudi Arabia, which, as you have noticed, does not hesitate to denounce millions of legal migrants from its territory uncompromisingly. So if we are not willing to support Israel hard today, which is fighting for its borders and will not be blackmailed by women and children who Muslim terrorists send to its borders as living shields, we will not thank it here for this determination and for these actions, so sooner or later, playing with certainty, we will become victims of our own cowardice. Thank you for your attention and I wish us all a lot of courage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I assume you have suggested that we complete paragraph 2 of the proposed resolution of the Foreign Committee. You will sign up for this in a detailed debate. I will then ask the rapporteur to propose a way to deal with this by voting. Mr Luzar is next in the general debate. Mr Kobza will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u20	Hello, Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not going to be too long today because I think this is a pretty serious subject that should take place on a factual level of debate rather than in some debate, let's say, emotional. Here I would like to recommend an elaborate to everyone, from which I draw that there are quite a lot of independent scientific materials concerning relations between Izraelec and Palestinec, about the emergence of the State of Israel, about the possible emergence of the state of Palestine, but most importantly what preceded it. I myself drew from the material, which is the thesis of the Institute of World History from a seminar on the latest history, which is called the UN Resolution on the division of Palestine and the end of the British mandate. I highly recommend reading this material because after studying the history, you will understand what is actually happening there all the time. And it's not black and white. It's not about the way the promoters here are trying to introduce us to this material and give it to us that it's just a one-sided, black and white vision of the world. Colleagues should not only go to Israel's embassy for information, but they should also go to the Palestine Embassy to hear the two opinions that are being expressed, the specific things and the specific conflict that is being waged on this territory. I want to remind you that in 1947, the UN dealt with this problem and decided to create two states on that territory - the State of Israel and the state of Palestine. While one has been fulfilled and asserts all claims and rights that should belong to him from being a separate state, he denies the same to the other State which arose under the very same resolution. In other words, there is an unsymmetrical approach of the state towards the other. And this is the problem. Of course, it triggers a reaction. And these actions and reactions are constantly repeated throughout history, and it is forgotten how this phenomenon originated. That's why I don't want to lean on either side or side because I think it would be unserious to both the Palestinec and the Izraelec. Both of these nations are interested in having their own state and operating in their own state. [[15.20 hours]] When I return to the motion for a resolution that we have here, one thing stopped me. And I confess, from this point of view, the resolution in the introduction states that it was adopted after the opening act of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Aleš Chmelař. Here I would welcome the presence of the Foreign Minister to take his own position on the motion for a resolution, because I do not consider it to be a good one. I don't think it's the emancipation or the saying that whoever criticizes the State of Israel could be anti-Semitic. This is not the way to treat this problem with this trivial term. Here is indicated a certain direction of reasoning and an effort to protect the State of Israel. And I see the State of Israel as, for example, the state of its representatives, Prime Minister Netanjahu, who laughed at the UN resolution that Israel should withdraw from the Golan highlands and from the occupied Arab territories, a long-standing policy that the European Union is pursuing and that is promoted by the entire peace world through the UN. He even completed this policy by wanting to gain this territory permanently in the event of success in Israel's elections. Not only to occupy, to permanently assign it to Israel, and therefore to break all agreements of international law. And these are the individual steps that later open Pandořin's locker of all the problems that we often see and live in the world today. And only at random can I historically recall the problem of Kosovo, the problem of Crimea, the problem of Taiwan, but also the problem of Catalonia in Spain. These are all outbreaks of unrest in the modern world of the 21st century, which is due to the lack of respect for international law, and unfortunately the representatives of the State of Israel are here at the top of this procedure. And now I'm not questioning their reasons at all, their arguments. We're just talking about international law and we're talking about finding a reasonable way out of these matters. This resolution, which has seven points, is, in my opinion, misspelled, poorly articulated as a result of what it means. I will propose amendments to this resolution in a detailed debate, and I will try to justify them very briefly in a detailed debate. I want to stress once again that something terrible is anti-Semitism. Anti-Semitism led a modern European society to wipe out six million Žid, to build concentration camps, and to try to resolve the question to paraphrase the atrocities that were carried out in the 20th century. However, we must not forget that the state is not only citizens of the state who deserve respect, but also the state's policy, and the state's policy can be that way, but also that way. And we could say a lot of these examples even in modern times, and we could now blame ourselves for who is pursuing what policy, who is implementing which policy, but to prevent the criticism of the policy, if any. I consider it wrong to try to criminalise or reject, in the form of a resolution, the expressions of civil discontent and inability to deal with it. What other choice does a person have if he wants to stand up to a large corporation, whether a multinational company or a state, civilly stand up rather than express civil discontent with the need to buy specific goods? Even in Czech history, we have experienced many activities and many calls by citizens not to buy specific goods because... But we have also experienced state-supported and praised events that say: buy Czech goods, support Czech farmers. And now I'm asking, isn't that a bit of a parallel to this process to show some sort of attitude in civil society? And here in this resolution, this is something that is forbidden against a particular state. And, of course, those who approve the State of Israel's progress will continue to buy Israeli goods, continue to buy Israeli weapons, but we should also look at this from the perspective of civil society. And civil society has the only way of getting out and profiling against such a policy, namely this civic dissatisfaction. And I consider it right, unlike the petitioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u21	Thank you. Mr Juříček apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 16.15 to 18.30 for working reasons. Mr Benešík's point of order is next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I think there's been a lot of thoughtful things going on here. I have to agree with many of them, and I also have to say that to a large extent I agree with some passages, perhaps a little surprisingly, which President Okamura said here. However, I think that everyone should work in their territory, and in this context I would just like to draw attention to three things. He's the former secretary of the SPD who's been convicted of mine. for anti-Semitic statements. He is also a supporter of the SPD, who has defended the SPD event, and then we have the only terrorist act in the Czech Republic that has also been committed against the citizens of the Czech Republic by a supporter of the SPD. So I'd like us not to just talk here, but to try to keep things from happening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u23	Thank you. Mr Kobza will now speak in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to ask you a question about the previous speaker first. I do not understand his comments on the relation to the anti-Semitism in question. But maybe he'll explain it to me. As has already been said in previous contributions, a number of statistics, a number of data, a number of opinions have been mentioned here. I'll try to restock it. The SPD movement clearly condemns any flat-out or distribution of people, we condemn anti-Semitism. We divide people into decent and less decent. I would like to return to the question of the link between the increase in anti-Semitism, particularly in Western Europe, in connection with the huge increase in migration from Muslim countries, because immigrants can be divided into legal ones who like, naturally and willingly integrate into society that has provided them with asylum and protection, respect our customs, work, pay taxes, and then there are immigrants that we could use to use the term Benjamin Kuras to label them as colonists who come along with our European culture being inferior, and try to impose theirs on us. In addition to the sense of superiority and anti-Semitism, political, ethnic, religious wars bring revenge and blood feud to our homes. And such immigrants are unacceptable to us, for example, precisely because their share in the growth of aggressive anti-Semitism in Western Europe is clear and undisputed. We do not have similar problems here in the Czech Republic, and I am sure that this is a historically good cohabitation with the Jewish community, and mainly due to the limited participation of the Czech Republic in the immigration wave from Muslim countries to Europe from recent years. The proof of this is how popular the destination for Izraelec is Prague, where it feels safe. This was confirmed by several Izraelec I had the opportunity to meet recently. I do not want to primarily address the link between anti-Semitism and developments in Israel and Palestine, because now, after the election, the situation is unclear and tense, and I think it is not even a mere issue that we should be discussing here. I will therefore stick here in Europe, where we are at home and for which we are responsible and where, especially in the western part, there is an increase in anti-Jewish sentiment on a scale that we certainly cannot accept. There were a number of statistics, and here I have some that the survey created in cooperation with the Institute for Jewish Policy Research revealed that 80 percent of respondents considered anti-Semiticism as a fundamental problem in their country, Western Europe, and 44 percent of them experienced at least one anti-Semitic incident on their own last year. [[15.30 hours]] I'd like to go back a little bit in the past. Soon we will commemorate the sad fourth anniversary of the attack on the Bataclan Club in Paris with nearly a hundred victims. What we didn't talk about was why Bataclan was chosen for the attack. It was because the owners of the building were žid. And when Charlie Hebdo was murdered on January 7, 2015, he directly followed the attack on kosher deli in the eastern part of Paris, where the Muslim attacker held a hostage, which then shot four. He held them hostage there so that the attackers from Charlie Hebdo, who were hiding, could leave. The common denominator of these and other attacks is that the perpetrators were immigrants, whether they were first, second, or third generations. And it's just the tip of an imaginary iceberg. These violent attacks, as far as possible, are the product of the massive illegal immigration that the European authorities are currently trying to legalize, and they are no longer talking about redistribution, but about resettlement. We are given a number of declarations on how we are to accept more and more migrants, how we are to save them from everywhere, etc. But they all have one thing in common. They basically open the doors of Europe, which is defenseless, open wide. And the people who come here are the last people who want to build Europe. They're coming to control her. And anti-Semitism is just one of the accompanying phenomena. After all, let us see what is happening in the Czech Republic. We've had three brutal immigration attacks on our citizens recently. And what does the Home Secretary have to say about that? Nothing, because he's not here. Will what Sadiq Khan said in London mean that we should get used to this violence? We need to realise that these are crimes that would not be here without migration. And our citizens wouldn't fight for their lives in a hospital. Here, anti-Semitism is projected with a certain hatred of Christian and Western civilization itself. So we can boldly say that we are in the same boat with the Jewish community, and we must very strongly reject all this, we must call on our security forces to act. And we have to defy nonsense, like the regime of patience, that an immigrant who commits a crime here, so after serving his sentence, it's impossible to denounce him, he can stay here and be free. The numbers of attacks that are motivated by anti-Semitism are growing year on year in Western Europe. And it's just a question of when we're going to have a similar development here. In Germany there were 1,646 anti-Semitic crimes. Great Britain, France, recorded a large number. But the only country that experienced a decline in these actions was Hungary, which, as you know, is very effectively preventing migration. I, therefore, to conclude my contribution to the debate by clearly proving that the increase in anti-Semitism in Europe is directly linked to migration. It is therefore not possible for us to fight anti-Semitism without fighting illegal migration, because it is only our authorities that are allowed to decide who to let in and who not. It will not be decided by a Řek in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u25	I thank my colleague Kobza. And before we go any further, I note that I have here one factual remark from my colleague Jana Černochová and the preferential application of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Vice-President Okamura. Before I give the floor to a point of fact, I will ask the House for peace so that each contribution has the same environment. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to take a factual point to respond to Mr Leo Luzar, who here has confessed his admiration for Palestine. I would like to ask him, or, in general, a representative of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, if they could work out the unfinished business that concerned, if you remember, the explosion of the so-called. The Palestinian Embassy. So did the huge amount of illegal weapons held by the Police of the Czech Republic. It was a very huge case, which was also dealt with at the level of diplomacy. So I'd just like to ask that we really say things here as they are. And if colleagues from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia here are singing Palestine - I understand. They were the ones who recognized this so-called. Stop. On the other hand, we have the right to have a different opinion. And here it really happened and there is a flagrant violation of Czech legislation. And not just those, but international treaties, because of course the weapons were brought here illegally. At least the Vienna Convention and other treaties were violated. So if you want to negate some Bartošek's resolution here, do not use this type of argument that actually sounds ridiculous to the Palestinec. The ODS will support the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, Mrs Černochová. There are three more factual points. My colleague Minister Petříček and Tomio Okamura will wait. I, however, before a factual remark Ondřej Benešík I will read further apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Petr Venhoda from 17.45 to 19 a.m. and from 16 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes. Now, then, Mr Ondřej Benešík, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Leo Luzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. There was a statement about the Institute of Bearing, which has existed in our legal order since 1992, on the basis of international agreements to which Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic later acceded. So it's not a new institute, but it's old, and it got into the law in 1999. As you know, it was during the reign of Prime Minister Miloš Zeman, today's president. There is a great debate about this institute, which is only very marginally, but still related to today's topic. And I would like to invite you, all the Members who are interested in this topic, to the Thursday meeting of the subcommittee on migration and asylum policy within the European Committee, where we will discuss and discuss this matter with representatives of the Ministry of the Interior so that it can be actually explained so that the proposal that the Ministry of the Interior will bring to the House can be discussed and so that we can express ourselves accurately. Because I, after consulting experts from the Ministry of the Interior, have come to the impression that many colleagues have made a very unprofessional statement about this and are using, at least from the information I have from the Ministry of the Interior, misleading arguments. So you who are interested in this, please take advantage of this option. Only one can perform in plenary. Experts who are not politicians who are not Members or members of the Government may also appear on the subcommittee. Please take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Now Leo Luzar with a factual remark. Mr Lubomír Volný and Václav Klaus signed up in that order. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By means of you to my colleague, Černochová, who called on me to respond or respond. I would like to make it clear here that the state of Palestine was created in 1947 by the UN resolution. In 1948, until those February events, this country became a communist country, or a socialist country, if you will, depending on how you view the world's development. In other words, UN Resolution 181, which says that the territory of existing Palestine is to be divided between two states, the State of Israel and the State of Palestine, is 1947. So I wouldn't bring this history here. Second thing. When you say yes, there have been some problems with the Palestine embassy and with the weapons explosion, or finding weapons that you think have been placed there somehow - I don't know, you've used different terms - so here I want to say that this is the example that I'm talking about here. This means that when you try to globalize a state, but you use these arguments as if every Palestinec was responsible for what happened within the framework of its national constitution. That's exactly the problem that generalizes the thing itself. After all, every Palestinec does not mean that he is responsible for the decision of his own state or the mistakes of his own state. Like every Izraelec, he is not responsible for the mistakes of his State of Israel. And now if you're using this, let's remember the role of the state. That is why I also disagree with the fact that the State should be removed from this criticism, as proposed by this resolution here. It is entirely justified to criticize the state, and it is also entirely justified to seek ways against the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Lubomír Volný, Václav Klaus will be prepared, then Mrs Černochová, once again. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank you for the first time - I hope not for the last time - Mrs Černochová in this House for not being afraid to criticize Palestine and that today we can criticize Israel without accusing anti-Semitism, criticizing Palestine and the immigration wave without fear of being accused of Islamophobia. However, I would like to ask Mrs Černochová, by your means, Mr President, to support my amendment to the resolution. I repeat the amendment, he says: "The Chamber of Deputies appreciates and respects the willingness and determination of the State of Israel to defend its borders, its citizens and its independence and its means of death and agrees with the uncompromising implementation of Israeli immigration laws." I would really expect the support of this amendment from someone who is as hard and uncompromising as you, my colleague, through Mr President. And I would also expect you, as a member of the Civil Democratic Party, a party that very often puts itself in the role of defenders of natural human freedom and responsibility for your own decisions, so I would expect you not to support those parts of the resolution that call for the boycott of Israeli goods, investments and services. Because we here in the Chamber of Deputies have no right to do that. We have no right to dictate to citizens who or what to boycott and why. So I beg you not to support this part of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u33	I also thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, then Mrs Černochová, Langšádlová and Leo Luzar will be prepared. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u34	Hello. In fact, I would like to respond to Mr Benešík by means of you. Not the undignified first performance, where he was drawing attention to some completely pointless things, but to the second remark, where the Social Democratic Ministry of the Interior defends more or less. Go to the seminar, of course. On the other hand, today's press release was published by attorney Suchý, who deals with the institute of patience. The situation, of course, is, as always, somewhat more complicated. That means we have a lot of things in our legal order for a long time, but something is always moving, often under pressure from European structures. So also, when the invitation was here, I also appeal to you, read it carefully, because the matter is not that simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Langšádlová. You have your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to respond in my factual remark to Mr Luzar's colleague by means of you. I was not talking about the UN resolution, I was talking about the recognition of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, which took place much later than in the same year. As for the weapons, I would like to inform my colleague Luzar here that even the so-called embassy - because it is not an embassy in the true sense - has apologized for the fact that the police have actually shown that illegal weapons were found in her bowels, which may not have been used, but were there anyway. After all, the so-called ambassador of the Palestinian or Palestinian Autonomous Territories, who opened the vault there, died there. So the weapons that were illegal were actually found there, I insist. So I didn't use a word other than a word that was actually available from public sources - illegal weapons - and was violated by the Vienna Convention. Here, if you look up old articles, you'll find information that the police found illegal weapons in the building, the Palestinec apologized for holding them. They say the weapons came from Czechoslovakia and were never used.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Helena Langšádlová and one more comment by Mrs Luzar. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u38	Thank you for the floor. In the introduction, let me invite you to the subcommittee on migration and asylum policy, where I believe that we will explain and explain the fact that the information, as it spreads from some directions, is not entirely true. Get to the point. I would like to thank my fellow Members who have initiated this resolution, to thank colleagues who have discussed this on the foreign committee. And really, we could say that how it is possible that we have to repeat here again that we are opposed to any questioning the right of the State of Israel to exist and defend as if it were a matter of course. But it's not. The situation in Europe and in our country is changing, and I believe that we are to declare these things again, because Israel is a democratic state, it is our close ally. And the history of Europe, when anti-Semitism, hatred became so great that it led to the death of many millions of people, should teach us that it is necessary in time and fundamentally to oppose any manifestations of anti-Semitism and to warn. That is why I think it is important to adopt these resolutions as tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Leo Luzar's comment, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared again for another factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u40	Thank you for the floor. Through you to a colleague of the Černochová. I don't want to drag it out, but she used the term illegal weapon found. Yes, those are the 2014 headlines when this thing happened. Of course, they all also say that an investigation and further police investigation will be carried out. The explosion that occurred - and in 2018, if I came across the last article, they are already talking about old weapons from the 1970s, 1980s that come from the gifts of the then Czechoslovak state representatives to Palestinian officials. I draw from open sources as well as my colleague. And the ambassador who opened an old vault that he didn't even know was there - it just happened. There may be some official opinion of the Home Office from the investigation into this old case for both of us, so we can be clear and we can't attack anyone who isn't responsible, and besides, he died there. And I guess it wasn't really his fault, it was his coincidence. I wish I could. [[15.50 hours]] On the other hand, I would like to remind you that weapons are given as a whole to statesmen and between statesmen normally, and I wonder how the President of the United States, Donald Trump, will dispose of the weapon he received from the Czech Republic, and whether he has officially signed it and whether he has it there and whether his successor will find it in that vault, illegal, CZ 75, which he received with a gift. So let's respect those words and not use strong arguments about things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Lubomír Volný's factual comment and then the still waiting Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u42	Thank you. I'm sure it's my last day, too. I would like to say that there are various things in the embassy in some countries where one specific ideology is mostly known. Some of them have grenades exploding and illegal weapons piled up, and others have murders, neighborhood journalists. The next thing I'd like to say right now is my personal challenge to you through Mrs Langšádlová. I would like to ask you, my colleague, to study publicly available data from all the servers that I have quoted here, which clearly shows that the growing wave of anti-Semitism in Europe in recent years is clearly in correlation and in the context of the growing Islamisation of Europe. The more so-called. refugees from Islamic countries, the more anti-Semitism will grow in Europe. So I would like to ask you to take all steps as a constitutional official of this country to protect not only the Žid living in the Czech Republic, but, if possible, in Europe from another wave of Islamization in Europe that threatens them, because it is undoubted, it is clear, it is indisputable. This growing anti-Semitism that has appeared here in Europe is not the work of the original Evropan. The anti-Semitism of the original Evropan is on a permanent level. It's sad, yes, we have racist, anti-Semitic among us, but this is anti-Semiticism and crimes against extra members of the Jewish community. So thank you for never actively supporting this again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, in a proper application in the general debate, Mr. Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly to Mr Luzar. Of course, I welcome this resolution, this resolution, because anti-Semitism is a growing problem in Europe and no society is definitely immune. So I think this is a clear signal from the Chamber of Deputies that we perceive the problem of anti-Semitism, and we are ready to fight it on both domestic and international terms. I would also like to inform Mr Luzar that we clearly distinguish between the legitimate criticism of the State's actions by the State of Israel and the boycott of the State of Israel. I think that the Czech Republic has long claimed to recognise all international law relating to the situation in the Middle East and the Middle East peace process. Our long-term position is that we see the creation of two states, the State of Israel and the future state of Palestine as the only possible solution. In this regard, we are aware of all the UN resolutions affecting this issue. However, this does not give any reason to support, like the European Union or the Czech Republic, the activities which are aimed at the boycott of the State of Israel. However, from my point of view, the core of this resolution should focus on the issue of anti-Semitism as a problem that is on the rise. Thank you, and I hope Mr. Luzar sees our position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u45	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček. Now one more apology. Between 16 and 18 o'clock, Mr Pavel Juříček apologizes for reasons of work. I ask if anyone is reporting to the general debate because we have exhausted the general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. We will continue the debate in detail. Let me ask you about any final words after the general debate. Mr Bartošek is interested in the final word after the general debate. Please. The rapporteur, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u46	Colleagues, colleagues, thank you for the debate. I want to say here that this resolution contains a truly pan-European, global dimension, as it has been said here, and for this reason, I believe that the Czech Republic is to oppose the speeches of anti-Semitism in the international field, so that everyone knows that such behaviour as it can be seen in some European countries is totally unacceptable in our country. What I want to say is that Israel is currently the only country in the world that is systematically exposed to global boycott efforts. From this, it could be concluded that Israel is the worst country in the world with regard to human rights, and it is necessary to punish it and that Israel is creating the biggest problem with human rights. When you look at a number of other states, it is clear that this is not a problem for the State of Israel and it is not true. It follows that the only intention of what is happening is to boycott the State of Israel. It is important to remember that there are many examples in practice, and it can be seen in the media too, that where we meet at demonstrations, and those who call for the boycott of Israel, at the same time in the second wave often call for the destruction of the State of Israel. And in this context, it needs to be perceived. It must be noted that criticising the State of Israel, as I said, where justified, is entirely legitimate. But blocking the participation of athletes, singers is no longer a criticism of the State of Israel, but a stigmatization of people. You may have experienced some sporting events when they refused to hand over to the Izraelec after the struggle. I consider this an edge and a stigmatisation and an expression of anti-Semitism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u47	Thank you. The rapporteur's final statement. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I appeal in particular to the members of the inter-European group of friends of the Czech Republic - Israel, whom I am chairman. I appeal to you to prove your friendship, and that you'll all be here, and you should be here 58, which means you should all vote in favour, because it's not just about drinking good Israeli wine or eating some bread, but that friendship should prove it, so I would take it for granted. I would also like to say that it seems absurd to me that if our grandmothers lived like this, or even the memorials of what people who were probably deeply ashamed of themselves were doing something like the Holocaust, or Shoa, and that we are talking about anti-Semitism again today. Surely, it would seem absurd to our grandmothers or grandfathers after World War II that something like this might come about again. So I think it's just to support our resolution. Then I would like to say that what I actually said here during the last debate seems like a very cute trick to me to say that probably anti-Israelism is not anti-Semitism and vice versa. That's a really cute trick, because I think it's crystalline demagogy. It's like somebody said he was an anti-bohemist, but he's got nothing against the Čech. That's total nonsense. We, too, are not called Czech - Jews and Czech - Israel, because we are talking about the boycott of Israel, that is for me Israel and the žid are one and I consider it a nice trick, here to work with these terms, like juggle that we do not really have anything against Žid, we just want to eliminate their state. [[Nesroz.]] So, once again, I appeal to all members of the group, inter-European groups of friends of the Czech Republic - Israel, to prove their friendship, and I assume, if they are here, or should be present, that this is at least 58 votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u49	I thank Mr Janulík, who spoke with the final word, and we will certainly forgive him as chairman of the group of friends. We will continue with a detailed debate. Bartošek, who signaled this in the general debate, is the first to be logged in, so he is duly logged in. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u50	Thank you for the floor. I refer to the motion for a resolution read in the general debate, adding that the Foreign Committee resolution contains paragraph 7, when the Foreign Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution in the same way as the Foreign Committee adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u51	Thank you. Now in a detailed debate by Leo Luzar with the proposal, my colleague Navrkal will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your help to Janulík colleague, I would like to make comments. And, of course, I suppose the words he said earlier, he really meant with a lot of humor, bread and wine, or... If the members of this group really vote for bread and wine, then they should write it in their confession that they have accepted a gift from the Israeli embassy to vote as they are invited to vote. But I take it it was a figure of speech and humor, maybe not appropriate, but humor. Now allow your own motion for a resolution. I do not know if you have the text in front of you, but I will try briefly to modify the motion for a resolution: One. He strongly condemns all manifestations of anti-Semitism against individuals, religious institutions, organizations, including Holocaust denial - in other words release - as well as the State of Israel. Two. It rejects any questioning of the right of the State of Israel and the state of Palestine to exist and defend. I'm taking the liberty of not voting because I don't agree with her. In the fourth, it calls on the government, both at home and in international relations, to act decisively against all forms of anti-Semitism. I don't agree with five, either, which is why I'm not proposing her changes. And the six in that text, as it is, is acceptable in my opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u53	Thank you. The rapporteur has certainly noted that we should be able to vote on the counterproposal. Now, Mr Navrkal, a colleague of the Volný will be prepared. In front of my colleague Navrkal, Mrs Černochová's factual comment. We are in the debate, Mr Member, and I have called on you, but before that, the factual point comes first, so Mrs Jana Černochová, with a factual remark. [[to Mr Navrkal, who is already standing at the speaker's desk]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would ask you to concentrate on managing the meeting, because I, with a factual remark, applied before Mr. Luzar's performance, and you turned me off. So please manage this House properly. I wanted to respond to Mr Janulík. I was touched by what was said here. I'm in a group of friends of Israel. I think that for Israel and for us to face some nonsense against Israel here, I am doing my utmost, so I consider myself a true friend of Israel. And I never ate any bread in the group, and I didn't drink a pint of delicious Israeli wine. That's what I go shopping for with my own resources. And I ask Mr Janulík to apologize to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u55	Madame, I didn't turn you off, I reserve, I didn't really do that, I have your record here, but I only had it after I gave the floor to my colleague Luzar. So now my colleague Navrkal and I announce to Mr. Volný. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u56	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to propose, through Mr President, that we vote individually on the various points of the resolution. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u57	Yes, that is proposed, and the plaintiff accepted it, so I assume no one will interfere with this process. So now, Mr Lubomír Volný with a proposal and will be prepared by Mr Kobza. We are in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u58	I would also like to call on all the members of a group of friends of Israel to actually show their friendship and actually show respect for the State of Israel and vote in favour of this amendment to paragraph 2 - 2b of our resolution, which is: the Chamber of Deputies appreciates and respects the willingness and determination of the State of Israel to defend its borders, citizens and independence and deadly means and agrees with the uncompromising implementation of Israeli immigration laws. [[Help from the newsletters table]] - This is clearly a pro-Israeli position, which is why I am asking the members of the Israeli friendship club for support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u59	A group of friends under the Rules of Procedure set up under the permanent delegation of the Interinstitutional Union in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Now, Mr Kobza. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u60	Thank you, Mr President. As has been said here in previous contributions in the general debate, the increase in anti-Semitism is directly linked to the immigration and Islamisation of Western Europe, where this increase is clearly statistically documented. Senator Láska has written a report on Saudi Arabia's share of radicalization of Islam in Western Europe, stating that Saudi Arabia has invested $10 billion in Western Europe's Islamization. I therefore think that the issue of anti-Semitism in Europe is a Euro-Muslim issue, and that is something I lack in the motion for a resolution. With a resolution to support the State of Israel, its rights, I have no problem, except Kosovo we support all states, but I lack a clear emphasis on the European part of the anti-Semitism problem. I would therefore like to propose that another point be added to the resolution, which would be that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic condemns all the speeches and forms of anti-Semitism in Europe in connection with migration and the Islamisation of Western Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u61	Thank you, next amendment. In a detailed debate with a factual remark, Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal. And I ask the House for peace. Before it calms down, Mr Vice-President, I will read the apology received by the President of the House. Between 5:30 and 19:00, for family reasons, Mr Julius Špičák apologizes and between 15:50 and 18:00, Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes. Just a little while longer before it's quiet. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I am simply addressing the debate under way with a little clarification. The exact name of the group is the Inter-European Group of the Czech Republic - Israel. That's not usually what friends are in official names, but everyone feels that way. Just make sure it's exactly in the stew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u63	Thank you. I'm asking if there's anyone in the detailed debate. If no one else, I ask if the will is still a final word after a detailed one. It's not like that. But I ask for a motion for a resolution and a way of voting, because the individual issues are either a change in the original resolution or an addition, and I would therefore like to clarify the procedure. [[Mr Bartošek is interested in going to the counter.]] Normally, I would ask the rapporteur to do so, but if the rapporteur wants to say so, it is an agreement between them. Well, it's pretty loud in here, so I'm gonna ask the House for some peace. And if no one objects to the President's procedure, like the President, I propose that the motion for a resolution be specified by the rapporteur instead of the rapporteur, because his remarks are both from the foreign committee and from this part of the meeting in which we are discussing this point for the second time. I think the House has calmed down, Mr Bartošek has the floor with the motion for a resolution and the procedure for approving the resolution. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As the basis for the vote, we will be based on the foreign committee resolution, i.e. paragraphs 1 to 6. The seventh point, as I said, is that the Foreign Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt a resolution in the same wording. This means: Resolutions 1 to 6 and 7 would be based on Mr Kobza's proposal, which we would also vote on separately. At the same time, we will first vote on Mr Luzar's counter-surveillance in the text. If the counter-proposal fails, we will therefore vote on the proposed resolution of the foreign committee. After agreement and agreement with Mr Free Point 2, we shall divide them into Parts A and B and we shall vote separately when item 2A is the resolution of the foreign committee and point 2B extends point 2 and, in agreement with the Member, we shall vote separately within the framework of point 2. It's a procedure proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u65	Yes, everyone understood? Since it's not the easiest procedure, I'd rather let him vote, in the vote number 121. We are voting on the procedure of voting. I'll check you out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And once the numbers are settled, we'll decide on the procedure. I've started voting number 121. I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 121, 172 for 170, versus 1. The procedure has been approved and we can begin with the first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u66	Thank you. For the record, I'll read those points so you know what we're voting on. Firstly, 1 will be modified by Mr Luzar, who releases "as well as the State of Israel" from point 1. Point 1 reads: "The Chamber of Deputies strongly condemns all anti-Semitisms directed against individuals, religious institutions, organizations, including Holocaust denial. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u67	I started voting number 122. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 122, from the presence of 174 for 59, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Now the second option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u68	Thank you. I will now read the motion for a resolution adopted by the Foreign Committee. "The Chamber of Deputies strongly condemns all manifestations of anti-Semitism against individuals, religious institutions, organizations, as well as the State of Israel, including Holocaust denial."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u69	Yes. We will decide in the vote number 123, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 123, from the presence of 176 for 170, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u70	Now item number 2 modified by Mr Luzar. "The Chamber of Deputies rejects any questioning of the right of the State of Israel and the state of Palestine to exist and defend."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u71	Okay. Thank you. I started voting number 124. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 124, 174 for 19, compared to 24. The motion was not accepted. A basic suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u72	So now the original text from the Foreign Committee: "The Chamber of Deputies rejects any questioning the right of the State of Israel to exist and defend."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u73	I've started voting number 125. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 125, 177 for 168, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u74	Now item 2B of Mr Volný: "The Chamber of Deputies appreciates and respects the willingness and determination of the State of Israel to defend its borders, citizens and independence and deadly means and agrees with the uncompromising implementation of Israeli immigration laws."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u75	I started voting number 126. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 126, from the present 175 for 8, against 14. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u76	Thank you. "The Chamber of Deputies condemns all the activities and statements of groups that call for the boycott of the State of Israel, its goods, services or citizens, whether in the territory of the Czech Republic or in international fora."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u77	We will decide in the vote 127, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 127, from the presence of 176 for 124, against 13. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u78	Thank you. Item 4 modified by Mr Luzar: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to strongly oppose all forms of anti-Semitism both at home and in international relations.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u79	I started voting number 128. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 128, out of 177 in favour of 129, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u80	Item number 4 of the Foreign Committee is unvoting and we go to item number 5 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u81	Mr. Chairman Miroslav Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u82	I apologise, Mr President, fellow Members, this has happened to me exceptionally, but now I have abstained from voting in favour of Mr Luzar's counterproposal, and I have a high opinion that I am in favour. I dare to question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u83	Okay. In that case, we will decide on the objection of Mr Miroslav Kalousek against the electronic record of the outcome of the vote. Voting number 129. Who's in favour of giving consent? Who's against consent? Thank you. Voting number 129, out of 177 in favour of 168,. [[versus 0]] Objection has been accepted and we will therefore repeat the vote in point 4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u84	It is the vote on item number 4 by Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u85	I've started voting number 130. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 130, from 177 in favour of 115, against 1. The motion was accepted. Let's continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u86	So let's say point five. It is not modified, I will just read: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to reject financial support from the sources of these organisations for such movements, organizations and associations that call on the boycott of the State of Israel on the ground of the European Union, the United Nations and other international institutions. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u87	We will decide in the vote number 131, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 131. From the present 178 for 111, against 14. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u88	Thank you. Now Item 6: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government, both at home and within the European Union, intensify anti-Semitism prevention activities and advocated greater security for individuals, organisations and institutions that could be targeted by anti-Semit attacks."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u89	I've started voting number 132. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 132. From the present 179 for 170, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u90	Now the last point, the seventh, Mr Kobza, who read in a detailed debate: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic condemns all the speeches and forms of anti-Semitism in Europe in the context of Europe's migration and Islamisation."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u91	We will decide in the vote number 133, which I have begun. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 133. Of the 179 present for 37, versus 10. The motion was not accepted. This has exhausted all the proposals, so thank you to the appellant, thank you to the rapporteur, and I conclude with point 313. My colleague Bartošek is reporting with priority rights off the mark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u92	Colleagues and colleagues, thank you for discussing and supporting this point, because we have sent out a clear signal that the Czech Republic is on the side of its allies, its partner, and it is absolutely crucial and today's turbulent world - to know where we stand, where our place is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-001-313.u93	Thank you. We will continue the negotiations with a point
