ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u1	28. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties /German press 256/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal will be made by Mr Staněk, instead of Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Jan Hamáček, stating that I have the relevant Government resolution on 23 January. At the same time, I will ask Mr Jakub Michálek to take up his seat at the rapporteur's table. I will now ask the Minister of Culture to present this press to Mr Antonín Staněk. Minister, you have the floor. [[10.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask the House for peace. If you want to discuss a subject other than the Collection of Laws, please in the foyer. I'll wait. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce a government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. The proposal belongs to a broader framework of the strategic objectives of the government in the area of eGovernment, increasing the competitiveness of the Czech Republic, democratising the exercise of public power and combating corruption. The aim of the proposal is to amend certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. It was approved in 2016 and its aim is the electronization and overall fundamental modernisation of the lawmaking process. The Ministry of the Interior is already working intensively in cooperation with the partners of the project, including the Chamber of Deputies, on the implementation of this law by means of the project eSbírka and eLegislativa. The project is co-financed by the European Union and for its full implementation it is also necessary to adopt follow-up amendments to other legislation which are the subject of this proposal. The construction of the eCollection and eLegislativa system is currently underway in close cooperation with the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. It is planned to be completed by 31 December 2020. The proposal brings in particular the necessary amendments to the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and the Act on the Constitutional Court. It also makes technical changes to a number of laws in connection with the unification of the Collection of Laws and Collections of International Treaties into one Collection of Laws and International Treaties. At the same time, this law sets out a new date of application for the entire legislation of the electronic legislative process and electronic Collections of Laws, namely 1 January 2021. Finally, I would like to point out that the similar proposal has already been approved by both the Government and the Chamber of Deputies in the previous parliamentary term and has become part of the project's technical solution. However, the original proposal has not yet been discussed by the Senate and is no longer applicable due to interim changes in the rule of law. In view of this fact, it is therefore necessary to approve a new draft amendment law to the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u3	I thank the Minister of Culture Antonín Staňek with the fact that I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jakub Michálek to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the eCollection and eLegislativa project is one of the fundamental eGovernment projects and this amendment law essentially corrects the problem that occurred in the previous parliamentary term, because in the last parliamentary term, the Act on the Collection of Laws, which has been passed, which has been passed, which has been approved, and which since the date of its effectiveness commands certain obligations to draw up or produce legislative documents in electronic form, but that amendment law has not been passed, because the amendment law is stuck in the Senate, while the Senate has demanded that the time in the Constitution, which the Senate has been required to discuss the laws. That's where it got stuck, and with the end of the parliamentary term, the law basically fell under the table, because it didn't even apply to the boat. There were still some complicated things with transitional provisions when the law of contact was under way. Anyway, the result is reasonable - the fact that the government has submitted a new change law. The law, as has already been said, also contains an amendment to the Senate Rules of Procedure, which means that the law must be passed by the Senate. Since we are pushed by the period of effectiveness that is stated in the original Law on the Collection of Laws, it is necessary to adopt this law and to obtain the Senate's consent until the original law comes into force. We have discussed the issue of electronic Collections of Laws three times within the subcommittee on the digitalisation of justice and eSummary, we receive regular reports from the Ministry of the Interior on the state of implementation, so far it looks like it is going well, and we have also been dealing with the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, which has produced some recommendations for the adjustments that should be made in, say, the adoption of the information system or the amendment law. This recommendation has been discussed by the Constitutional Committee, discussed by the Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, and we assume that this will be reflected in the changes to be read through the Constitutional Committee at second reading. Otherwise, I believe that this law should be passed. On the other hand, it is necessary to appeal to be approved, to quickly take effect, so that, of course, it can extend the period of entry into force before we are activated by the time stated in the Act on the Collection of Laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. I am opening a general debate to which I am registering Mr Marek Benda's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u6	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a little difficult to speak to the implementing law on the Collection of Laws in a situation in which the Minister of Culture represents him. With all due respect to the Minister of Culture, it is quite, quite clear to me that he will not be informed of this standard in a very detailed manner. What the rapporteur said is, of course, correct for us to go to the electronic Collection of Laws, and it is an important matter relating to the overall electronisation of the state administration. At the same time, I think that the project was prepared from the start so that it was clear and undoubtedly prepared by the government authorities, or at least the face of it. Communication with the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate ran very controversially. Perhaps during the last three quarters of the year it has started, but there are really some problems. Again, it was mentioned at the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission of this House, or the Constitutional Commission of this House and the Senate Constitutional Commission, where the senators point out that if it were to run by this proposed system, the actual time limits for discussing any amendments to the press sent to them by the House are still dramatically reduced and become virtually unapplicable. The same problem exists a little within the Chamber of Deputies. We are also discussing it very intensively with our legislation and hopefully we can resolve it, but it is about keeping both chambers in control of what they put behind the amendments to the system, so that it is not so that the administrator is the Ministry of the Interior and indeed the Ministry of the Interior is the one who decides when and in what second it is inserted into the system and what proposal is inserted into the system. This, in my opinion, is extremely important for us to be the ones who maintain control of what proposals he may wish to make, whether these proposals are compatible with the proposed bill, but at the same time that we should be the ones who decide. At this point, it's my proposal, and I want to make this proposal, and I know it's right. That's important. I think it will therefore be necessary to postpone efficiency, which is also proposed, the effectiveness of the entire electronic Collection of Laws, and perhaps we will have to create another transitional period for the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, so that we can prepare the systems here and also coordinate it with the elections and we are not in a situation where, for example, we are not in a position to do so. The new Members will come and they will be told that in two months everything will be paid, everything will be completely different, which would be in danger of being effective 1. 1. 2022 [[10.20 hours]] So I'm just pointing out that there are still problems. I understand that there is no point in leading any detailed controversy with Minister Staněk right now, and I think we can agree on a constitutionally legal committee, but it is likely that there will be a delay in effectiveness, and there are likely to be adjustments to the Rules of Procedure of both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. And we're going to have to have a debate with the Senate, because this law is typically a law, because that part of the amendment to the Senate's Rules of Procedure, which has to be approved by both chambers, and where the Senate doesn't actually have a time limit for it to discuss. And if he gets stuck and says we don't talk, then we're out of that accompanying law and we get to 1. 1st next year to a slightly absurd situation. So we're gonna have to find some common visions of the world with our senators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u7	I thank Mr Marek Benda and now Mrs Kateřina Valachová in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to speak in support of this government bill. Remind, in addition to dry paragraphs, that this is indeed a crucial step for improving the quality, accelerating lawmaking, for greater predictability, quality, but also the certainty of citizens and citizens in the Czech Republic about how the lawmaking takes place, and then increasing the certainty that the laws we have in the Collection are distributed and published in the texts accurate to how the legislative process was carried out. And we do this as quickly and as best as possible. I would also like to remind you that this is a long-term commitment also for previous governments to do so. And if I'm not mistaken, the debate's been going on for at least ten years. I can convince my predecessor that this is a matter that is also essential for the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. And it was precisely a consensus between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate that has been searching for years, and it was also the reason why this project and why it has not yet been successfully launched, and why the government will now and now try to do what I believe should have been in place a long time ago. I would also like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the House and the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Senate has acted this week and agree that the changes that we are about to discuss right now in the case of lawmaking and e Collections may also be required to amend constitutional order, and there is agreement between these committees on the fact that we would like to create an environment for it in the coming months if we need amendments and amendments to the Constitution for a more effective e Collection and enforcement of this Government Bill, so that both Senate and Senate committees are ready to do so and ready to support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u9	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Mr Marek Benda's point of fact is now, and then, with the priority right of the rapporteur, who has duly entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am really only a brief factual one for my esteemed colleague and chair of the Constitutional Commission through you. It is not intended to accelerate legislation. This is a scary mistake, please. Legislation is to be as slow as possible and in no way should eCollection lead to legislation speeding up. It is true that it is to be made more transparent that it should be more clear who ever puts what in there. That more citizens should be able to see what it looks like, what is being prepared, but it is certainly not the aim of e Collections to speed up legislation. On the contrary, I think we should slow her down as much as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. With the same factual remark, Mrs Valachová has come forward, and the rapporteur will certainly have something to react to. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u12	I will not argue with Marek Benda about words through the President. We are sure to agree that, above all, it is about improving the quality of the legislative process and its foresight and transparency. And I'm sure we'll keep a closer discussion on how it is with the speed of legislation. And if we want to move forward in this way, we'll leave it up to the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jakub Michálek, now duly signed up. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u14	Thank you for the floor. I need to set the record straight on the Constitutional Commission. I am not aware that there has been a resolution. Moreover, the amendment of the Constitution is not even proposed in this context. So I think the information was somewhat misleading. Because, for example, if we found out in three months that the Constitution should change, it would, of course, significantly complicate the process. I understand that the Senators would like more time to discuss the laws so they wouldn't be in such a hurry, but we're getting into exactly the situation that we had the last time that the amendment law wasn't passed because the Senators were pushing the Chamber of Deputies to extend their time for law enforcement, and they were blocking the adoption of the Amendment Act on the Collection of Laws. And that really wouldn't be appropriate in my opinion. Let us rationally discuss how to adjust the legislative process in the Senate so that it is comfortable for senators to be able to load all the proposals that are being made at the last minute orally for plenary, so that it is properly incorporated there. But if the government's aim was to change it in connection with this Constitution, then we need to completely override the process of approving this law, because of course these things are connected. Those deadlines are connected. So the government would have to submit a change to the Constitution, or I don't know that we would, so I'd be careful to get into it this way. I would just like to respond briefly to what has been said here by President Benda. I think he described it appropriately. He also touched on the problem of the division of power that we have enshrined in the Constitution, which is reflected essentially in some matters of the chamber's self-government, the autonomy of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate towards the government, so that, let's say, there are authoritarian changes in the information system, which is fully in the administration of the Chamber of Deputies' Office, and not in the government's system, where in the most extreme case in the original version, it could in principle be that all proposals would have to be prepared on government servers, and the government would potentially have access to working versions of proposals that are being prepared by Members. Which we've been able to revise. The Ministry of the Interior accepted these comments and included them in the changes to the project that is in progress. For which I thank him, because, of course, it is a matter that is not simple, because we have a running project that has been competitive under the Public Procurement Act, there must be changes to be made. We were assured that there was also some budget for change requirements, but of course every other thing that we are going to adjust here in the Chamber of Deputies in this running project will be reflected in certain multi-work in the supply from the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u15	I thank the rapporteur for his speech. Before I give the floor to Mrs Valachová's factual remark, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Jana Maláčová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, apologizes from 11 o'clock for work reasons. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u16	As was rightly said, it was in the past that the position of the Senate led to the fact that the collection was not enforced. It is a matter that we really need to improve the legislative process and to predict the lawmaking of citizens and citizens in the Czech Republic. I considered it important as chairman of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution to tell the House what debate was conducted between the two committees. We do not need a resolution to interpret that the Senators and Senators have again made a request for an extension of the time limit for the Senate's proceedings and have just drawn attention to a certain connection with the eCollection. Through our President, of course, I agree with Jakub Michálek that this should not mean any further attempt to block the collection, but on the other hand, it is clear that there must be an agreement between the two chambers on how the collection will be brought into life. And I just want to report to the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the House of Parliament of the Czech Republic that this commission is, of course, ready to contribute to this. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u17	Thank you, Mrs Valachová, and before I give the floor to the Minister of Culture, Antonín Staňek, with priority rights, I am registering Mr Profant's application. I will ask the House once again for peace! Since my colleague Valachová was signed up for a point of fact, I did not want to take her time to make a point of fact. It really is not possible for us to work in such a noise, and leave the stenographers at least if you don't respect each other so that they can do their job! Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u18	Thank you for the floor. I, of course, appreciate Mr Benda's view, because I really am not an expert in presenting this law, but I would nevertheless like to make a few comments when I was preparing to present this law. Indeed, the amendment of the Constitution is not foreseen. On the contrary, in the context of the need to present this law, it is envisaged that appropriate political negotiations be conducted with the leadership of the Senate in order to find a common compromise. In addition, there are also more detailed substantive modifications against the original proposal taking into account the experience gained from the ongoing implementation of the Act on Collection of Laws and International Contracts and the requirements of comment points, such as the extension of the use of electronic system, electronic process and the submission of draft legislative acts, etc. I would perhaps add that with regard to the current state of implementation of the project eSbírka and eLegislativa, the Ministry of the Interior selected the winners of public procurement procedures for the implementation of the system eSbírka and eLegislativa and the verification of its data base and concluded a contract with suppliers. The supply implementation has already started and will take 24 months. The expected date of completion of the project is 31 December 2020. Maybe for the record, the budget is 482 million. So I think there's room for any comments, as they sound during the first reading, to be made and applied during the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u19	I thank the Minister of Culture Antonín Staňek and now Mr Ondřej Profant, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u20	Beautiful morning, everyone. I will return to the political level a little bit of the material that my colleagues had here, because I would like to point out that I think it is an absolute shame that we do not yet have such a thing, that indeed the laws are not normally accessible to citizens in the authoritarian version, that, in fact, even courts, etc. decide according to private software, which often carry errors, etc. And the basic question is, what's taking so long? It's not that complicated! It wouldn't be difficult if we didn't make it difficult. The project is designed wrong from the beginning, there are a few things mixed together, and thus it becomes significantly larger and, since it is bigger, it is harder to manage. I will just add that, of course, the EU has similar software, that in the Czech Republic, for example, as regards at least displaying these laws, but I consider this to be one of the most important things, that is the basis of the rule of law, so that we can read legislation, so we just work here zakonyprolidi.cz which provide legislation free of charge must parsify it complexly and our ministry is not able to do something like that, or vice versa. It had something like this and it canceled within the Public Administration Portal. That's really sad. And I think the Ministry of the Interior didn't do anything at first, then the project swelled up to have it in its current form, when it was so big, and that's why it takes so long and that's why it has to be postponed all the time. And in terms of quality, at least the technical, the project, so when we asked the Sub-Committee for the e Collection how it is, who guarantees some architectural design of software etc., we learned that most of the work is overqualified administration type of law-writing from the 1950s and that in terms of software pages, it is supplied by one company and the same company makes architecture and actually supervision of the work. So with that attitude, it's no wonder it's all getting longer, and like I said, I consider it a great shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u21	I thank Mr Ondřej Profant. A real comment by Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u22	On the other hand, I would like to return the debate to a material level. The collection is on the table right now, it's a government bill. The current government has been operational since June. As for how long we've been debating the e Collection, I've already mentioned it. It's probably been since 2011, 2010. I deliberately mentioned in my speech what I really consider to be a factual argument, why we have not managed to start the collection so far. Indeed, it affects the legislative process not only by the government, but especially by the House and the Senate as of course key actors in the legislative process. It has constitutional connotations. We can close our eyes before that, but then we'll have an e esbírka blocked in the Senate, and that's about all we can achieve. So I would concentrate on that at this point, and I am glad, or I feel it through the President, that the pirate party is interested in the enforcement of the e Collection, and I will certainly be glad if we work in the committees to set the collection so as to see the light of day in the current term of this government. That's the first thing. And as for the second thing, of course, as a coalition MP, I see the reservations that have been raised here, and we are certainly prepared to respond to them from the point of view of, say, the preparation of the launch, both in the electronic plane and in the custom plane and the project plane that my previous speaker here indicated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u23	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, and I have no application for a debate. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. This is not the case, I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? It's not like that. The rapporteur? Yes. Mr. rapporteur, your final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the interest I have received from my colleague Valachová. I'm glad you're interested in the issue. I think we should all be interested, because we're all gonna be working with that system. Who would like to participate, so you are cordially invited to the subcommittee where this is being dealt with and where we have each other's meetings. However, to my colleague Profant. It must be said that many of the things that have been said here are true that the project is problematic. He's been working on it, as far as I know, for over ten years. It was an effort to raise funds from the EU. They didn't get it, which is why it was interrupted, so it's not a project that's smooth from the start. And in some of the foundations of the project there are shortcomings in the fact that some tools, for example, already exist from eLegislativa. When we look at the AT4AM instrument used by the European Parliament, and the European Parliament is working with a dramatically higher number of amendments than our national Parliament, the instrument already exists, it is available, it could be used. Unfortunately, it was obviously too cheap and the form of the contract was chosen for half a billion crowns. However, I must add to what Mr Profant said, that the amount of half a billion is not entirely for the reconstruction. According to my information, it's about CZK 50 million to reconstruct all the legislation, because we live in a country today where no one in this state even knows which laws apply. In short, there are laws that probably apply here from Austria-Hungary, the first Republic. I know that the ODS colleagues have made some sort of proposal to change it one by one. And I wanted to remind you that the Constitutional Committee also called on the Government to deal with the eCollection project with the issue of, say, the vague amount of legislation and those regulations that are already obsolete and have come out of use. For this to be mapped at the resorts. And I know the Home Office is working on it. [[10.40 hours]] However, at this point, I believe that there is really no alternative because we already have a law that is ready to take effect, a law on the Collection of Laws, so that we can approve this amendment law by first reading, and we will focus on comparing those requirements in the second reading so that they correspond to what the Constitutional Committee and the Organising Committee have approved for Members' requests for the course of the legislative process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u25	Thank you for the final words of the rapporteur. And we'll continue. There was no proposal that we could vote on, i.e. to return the rejection, to vote on. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We can therefore vote on the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. We will decide in the vote number ninety-five, but I will first engage, given that I have asked that discussions be held outside the O.R. so that colleagues can come to the vote calmly. And if there is a steady number of entries, I will begin the vote. I have begun voting number 95, and I am asking who, for the commandment of the Committee, is constitutionally legal as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 95 from 169 for 154, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss a committee of constitutional law as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this press to other committees. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? The rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would suggest that this be ordered by the Public Administration Committee, too, because it is an information system, so it also has to do with eGovernment, which is in the spirit of the Public Administration Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-007-028.u27	Thank you, logical suggestion. Okay. Anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We can therefore decide on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. We will decide in the vote number 96, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 96 out of 170 registered for 156, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. I therefore note that this proposal was directed to the Committee of Constitutional Law as a committee of guarantee and as another committee was the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. There was no other proposal in the debate, i.e. the time limit for discussion remains 60 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you to Minister Staňek, thank you to the rapporteur and I finish with point 28. The next item is the item
