ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u1	215. Government bill amending Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests and on amendment and addition of certain laws (forest law), as amended /house print 408/ - third reading I interrupted the debate on this point in the middle of Mrs Fialová's speech. Madam, you have the floor and please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u2	Well, thank you very much. I'm just going to compare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that the Member may proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u4	Thank you. I would fluently move to my amendments at the moment, where I would like to pick up the way the forest is managed, which is currently re-laxing the hands of the foresters themselves, and de facto legitimizing the practice that is already commonly practiced in the woods, as I have learned. It makes it equal and possible to choose a passport selection system. If anyone doesn't know what that means, I'd be happy to repeat it simply. Either we keep making clearings, or we prefer one tree. We're gonna cut it down with a saw, and we're gonna approach it very economically. At the same time, we will support the age composition of various trees, keeping the moisture and standard temperature in the woods. We will not develop shavings where we exhibit our seedlings and replanted with direct sunlight and varying temperatures during this autumn. And that it is common practice, some places are visible in our Czech Republic. And my question is, if there is a negative position from the Ministry of Agriculture, why, if it is a practice, why this amendment is so much hindered and why it is not possible for foresters who want to manage it, to legitimize it and then give them this opportunity. Another proposal is the possibility to issue decrees to the Ministry of Environment in national parks. It seems perfectly logical to me when the Ministry of the Environment announces national parks, gives various measures on how to treat individual species or their landscape, why it also does not have the possibility to determine how it will be managed in national parks. Here I mention, or I'm picking up the fact that I totally respect that he has the right to make decisions about the other woods and the Ministry of Agriculture still decides. But why not put that possibility in national parks? The last of my proposals that I would mention here is the payment of damages. And the damage is that at the moment the state is paying itself to the state. I find it illogical. The moment we decided to donate the forest, actually to ourselves, the other tenants either bought the forest or rented it, which pays for, why we should pay ourselves the damage. While I would like to stress here that he was counting on us not to pay ourselves compensation for damage, employ a lot of officials, play a paper war, show how much there is, and today we can count on the increase in this administration. Why, if we have an approved national programme since 2008, the forestry programme II, which is directly counting on it, will we continue to maintain this actually illogical part in our law? I would like to quote the precise wording of the National Forestry Programme approved by the Government in 2008 and that the state forests will not be the beneficiary of compensation for the reduction of management due to the fulfilment of the public interest. State forests will number and publish the amount of economic damage resulting from restrictions on management due to the fulfilment of the public interest. If the forest use payment is introduced, this amount will be deducted. I've been given a lot of criticism about why we're giving this and why we're going to put our state forests at a disadvantage. Let us find another way to do this to relieve our state forests for the damage they have at the moment. It's written right here. But we have to make one change, and that is to accept that we do not actually have to give orders in another law itself, that the damage must be numbered. I would be very happy to support my amendments. However, I would also like some amendments to be supported, whether from the workshop of Mr Holomčík, or from a colleague Adamová Pekarová, and I would particularly like to raise the hunting law here, namely, to adopt changes as a whole. For this whole amendment. But of course it's up to you. I understand the Ministry itself, I understand all interest groups, concerns about change. But sometimes it is necessary to face up to change and look for ways to do it, and not waste time looking for sometimes absurd arguments why not allow change. A lot of them were said here today. For example, I'm going to put my ears in the office of civil servants. Let us leave this to the Ministry of Agriculture and Hunters themselves, which will be agreed by the rules, and let us not look for absurd arguments where there is no need to look for them. So, please, colleagues, let's make this Octavia Octavia the base, the Octavia outfit exclusive. For this reason, too, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I will submit a change to the voting procedure so that some of these amendments have the opportunity to go to plenary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Holomčík will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u6	Thank you for the floor. I am so sorry, and I would like this to be heard before the debate is over. In my previous speech, as I was angry, I forgot to ask for a vote that I would like to withdraw my two amendments as H1.1 and H1.2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u7	Yes, so you are proposing to withdraw your two amendments. I assume that the rapporteur has noted this, and we will vote on it when we get to the vote on the amendments. It is Mrs Adámková's turn in the debate, followed by Mrs Balcarová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the previous speakers, I can greatly shorten my contribution because everything relevant to my comments has already been said by Mrs. Magister Černochová and Dr. Bělobrádek. So only a few additional things. I would like to say one sentence at the outset. Hunting is an activity of general benefit. Hunters take care of our national wealth, and that is our animals, which is indisputable. We also know that we are currently in a very inappropriate ratio of forest vegetation and especially cloven-hoofed game. I don't think I'm going to go back to that, because you both did a lot of that, and I think it would be very good if there was really some discussion. But let's look at one other thing. If, as my previous speaker said with a smile about the markant, that is, a hearing - if there is a local agreement, so be it. But the moment we bring this to law, we have to figure out everything else. We can't say A and not say B. So we need to work this place out, eventually get back to it. If you don't mind, okay. I don't know why you're so worried, 'cause there's one thing you need to remember. This probably stems from the fact that the petitioners do not know the practice. Because, of course, many hunting associations are also trying to improve their portfolio in some way, and that means a commercial blast. The hunter who pays money for this game usually wants to take his head for further processing. So I'm sure it won't be possible. Because we would have gotten to the opposite, which means we couldn't actually sell this animal, so it would have grown even bigger. As far as sanitary matters are concerned, I still have to say that if we order this by law, which may be, please, the official who would be in charge of working with this biological material - I point out in advance that there may be a disease in the case of, of course, if the prosecutor is not, the judge is not being enforced by an occupational disease. In this case, it could be disease transmitted by tick Ixodes riinus or new hepatitis E. So we have to keep an eye on that, too. If there's practice that he wears some tails and so on and so on to show, it's different. If we rule by law, we must remember everything. In that case, we would need to put this into practice so that this department of state administration is equipped with a freezer at minus 80, my friends, and that is not a cheap thing. So once again, we have to say who should be dealing with this. I'd just like to set the shots a little bit straight. Even at the moment, of course, no one can rush into the woods and start shooting what comes to mind. That's a very naive idea. The game plans are. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] The other thing is that we need to figure out how to deal with the evidence of the game that will be hit, most often hit on the road or by the train, which usually happens -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u9	I'm sorry, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. It ceases to be heard what the honourable Member says. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u10	Thank you. Then I want to say that both the forest and, of course, the animals belonging to it must be in symbiosis. So, yes, let's look at how to regulate states, but it really needs to be said B, and therefore not to burden the state administration by having to do their equipment, so they would eventually enter other hygiene classes of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u11	Thank you. It is Mrs Balcarová's turn. After that, Mrs Krutáková. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only speak briefly because we will try to conclude this debate one more hour before. So I just wanted to ask you, please support the amendments tabled by the TOP 09 together with the Pirates and, at the same time, Mrs Fialová's amendments. And I'd like to say that the main reason is that there's nothing left to wait for. At this point, a strong law is needed to address the problems of Czech forests, the present and the future. And since the preparation of a new amendment, which should be comprehensive, should take up to three years - the Minister here has told us that he is preparing the concept, which means that it would not be quick - it really is necessary to adopt a law that will address the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u13	Thank you. Mr Pávek is a member of the debate, but he is not present. Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? No one is going into the debate, so I am ending the debate. Is there interest in final words? [[- It's not. Rapporteur: No.]] It's not. We are not in a very simple situation, because at 13 o'clock we will end the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And the vote ahead is not easy, and we will definitely not be able to make it in a few minutes. So, even in consultation with the rapporteur, we will now do this by interrupting the discussion of this point, ending the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Meet me again at 2:30. We have a fixed point. And I warn the members of the Organizing Committee that the meeting of the Organising Committee will begin at 13:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-004-215.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. For some reason, Mr Ivan Bartoš's factual comment came to my attention here, but I think that's something from last time, so I'm going to have to smash it with my permission. And now I'd like to read the apologies. Mr Radek Zlesák asks to cancel his apology. It was an apology by the end of the week, but the Member is present at the meeting. And then he apologizes for his participation in the negotiations today between 14.30 and 15.15 for working reasons, Mr Jiří Mihola. We will now continue the agenda. This is about
