ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u1	110. Members Jana Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal, Ivo Vondrák, Helena Válková, Milan Pour, Petr Sadovskýý and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on Municipalities (General Establishment), as amended, Act No. 129/2000 Sb., on regions (regional establishment), as amended, and Act No. 131/2000 Sb., on the capital city of Prague, as amended /house print 273/ - third reading Ms Jana Mračková Vildumetzová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Ivan Bartoš, has already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 273/3, which was delivered on 30 January 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 273/4. I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the start of the debate. That's right. I will ask everyone present for peace in the hall, or they will transfer their debates to the foyer. One more time, please calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, Members of the Government, we are in the third reading of the amendment to the Act on Municipalities, the Regions, the capital of Prague, which addresses the accumulation of functions, the accumulation of rewards. I would like to say that this bill, as mentioned, was presented by Members Ivo Vondrák, Helena Válková, Milan Pour, Petr Sadovský, Jakub Michálek, Pavel Staněk and other Members. The proposal is - I repeat it again - that if someone is an MP, a senator or a member of the government, and at the same time a vacant representative, that is to say, the governor, the mayor, the deputy mayor, the councillor, but also a loose committee chairman, he would receive 40 per cent of the remuneration for this post after the approval of this law. The funds will remain in the budgets of cities, municipalities and regions. I must say that this proposal was supported by the Ministry of Finance, because the funds will then be used for various requirements and projects in individual cities and municipalities. The draft law was directed to the guarantee committee, the public administration committee and regional development, which gave a favourable opinion on this bill. At the same time, five amendments were tabled, where the guarantee committee gave a negative opinion on all the amendments. I would also like to mention that the effectiveness of this amendment is proposed on the first day of the third calendar month following its publication. Finally, I would like to summarize that the proposal for this law has the support of a government that has given a favourable, supportive opinion. At the same time, it has the support of the Guarantee Committee, the Public Administration Committee. I would like to ask all of you to support this law in the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u3	I also thank you, Madam appellant, and I am opening up a debate to which Mr Benda is the first to be joined at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u4	Mr President, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I believe that this bill is nonsense. In view of the fact that its sole purpose is that the plaintiffs who promised before the elections that they would not accumulate functions could claim that these functions can accumulate because they are not paid too much for them. Otherwise, I consider it completely dubious and merely coming up to the Czech envious nature to reduce someone's income as a function which he fully performs. It is, of course, possible to determine, and this is clearly stated by the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the incompatibility of functions. Of course, we can say that it is wrong for the captains to be legislators in the Czech Republic at the same time. There are countries that have it so done. Maybe it makes sense somewhere. We can also say that mayors, relaxed mayors are not supposed to be legislators in the Czech Republic, but this is a matter of resolving conflicts of interest. If these people aren't lobbying too strongly and too clearly for the interests of their community, their region. Or we say that we will allow it, that is the solution that lasts in the Czech Republic, I even think is correct. But then this attempt to meet the moods of public opinion, which are convinced that we are overpaid in all the positions in which we are, and if we carry money here, we are overpaid and corrupt. It just seems completely dubious to me, don't be mad at me, it's really just trying to accommodate this addiction. I just don't understand why we should do this. All those people who were elected to one or the other position were aware of them. When I take the President of the Senate, present-day, Jarda Kubera, he was elected four times senator. Likewise, he was often elected Mayor of Teplice. All those citizens knew that. And they knew why they were doing this, and they thought it was right and reasonable, and they would never think that they were going to cut their salary from one or the other. I just find this approach to the world really very wrong. If you think, if the plaintiffs think, the government, the public administration committee, that there is a conflict of interest in the given functions, that it is not right for the legislator to be at the same time someone who is responsible for the municipality or the region, because perhaps here he is acting too strongly in favour of the municipality or the region. Then let's say that this is a conflict of interest, in some areas we have such things set out, and let's say that it is not possible to accumulate these positions. I think it would still be fair to say that from the next parliamentary term, certainly not during the parliamentary term that lasts. I'd consider that reasonable. [[10.20 hours]] Lowering your salary? I just don't understand why. Then we will come to the doctors who are here, who are also likely to be paid from public health insurance, and we will say: In addition to being a public official, a constitutional official, a MP, they are still paid from public health insurance for what they can - of course, in the time that remains for them - do. But since it's public money, I suppose it would be appropriate for them to only get 40 percent? Will we come to the other professions we allow? I would very much like to do this, and I would very much ask the House to reject this bill as completely unnecessary populism, which may be designed to address the promises of some, and perhaps the ideas of some, how everyone must devote 100% to the work in this House. Honestly, it's more of a bad thing for a lot of people when they're doing 100 percent of the work in this House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your performance raised several factual points. First, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Pávek, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond, through Mr President, to my colleague Benda, about the claim that supposedly some accumulaters are trying to improve their black conscience through the approval of this law. I have to say, no pirates accumulate two loose functions, and yet we support the law because we think it's good. And one thing is the voters of these people, especially in municipal elections, for which it may be particularly advantageous when the mayor then lobbies for them in the House, but the second thing is the system setting of the rules for the whole republic. You often accuse us of being too radical and wanting everything right now, and now you're saying either to allow a conflict of interest or to ban a conflict of interest. We only propose measures that reduce the motivation of the function to accumulate. We think it's reasonable, and the moment it passes, we can evaluate how it works, whether or not it actually reduced the number of power storage devices, and then we can talk about, for example, conflicts of interest. We wanted to go the first way to reduce motivation to accumulate functions, and then we can go the next way to ban conflicts of interest. But I think the way in the right direction is worth it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u7	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Pávek, will be prepared by Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with Marek Benda's argument through the President. But what I want to add to that is that if you decided to approve such a law, its effectiveness would have to be postponed for several years, so that we do not violate the principle of predictability. It is not possible to interfere with the current parliamentary term and other periods where the cumulation takes place, because the people who have run for office have run under pre-known conditions and it is not possible to change these conditions in the middle of their mandate. It is extremely important if the coalition here has an agreement that this law should pass to postpone its effectiveness for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u9	A point of fact, Mr Benešík, will be prepared by Mr Rais.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone that there is an institute of unreleased functions. In this way, anyone can serve as mayor, deputy mayor, council member, chieftain, vice-general, regional council member. The remuneration for this function is determined by the council from - to and the council may decide that the remuneration is zero, or is up to a certain amount that corresponds roughly to what is proposed here. I have a personal experience with this. When I was elected as mayor and it was impractical to replace the mayor less than a year before the municipal elections, I arrived. I was acting as mayor, but the council had me disindulged with a zero bounty at my request. Please do this and we do not need to adopt a standard that will really cause major problems, because it is precisely the case with predictability and precisely because there are a number of legislators who have their jobs paid from public sources - in education, in health care. Why doesn't this hit them, but just loosen-up officials? So I repeat, we have an institute here, let's leave this in the voters. You can perform your functions 100%, with all the powers and competences, with the entire apparatus, you just don't have to receive a reward for it. That's possible today. Please, do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u11	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Rais. Mr. Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u12	Have a good day, everyone. Of course, I'm not involved in the proposal, so I understand why 40 percent, why not 50 and why not 30. So I'd quite like to hear the answer, if it was done based on some kind of analysis, or if someone looked out the window. That's the first thing. Second thing. I believe that during the course of the game, rules should not be changed, so it should be considered to actually play the games. And the third point I have to make is that a number of positions - we know in advance that it is excluded, for example, that I am in office and, at the same time, a Member. These rules of the game should always be put forward and not simply change it during. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u13	Thank you. Another point of fact, President Stanjura, will be prepared by Mr Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u14	In a factual reminder, I will respond to the speech of my fellow Member, Mr Ferjenčík. I'm not gonna repeat the arguments of those who oppose the law that I'm against. However, at least I want to defend myself for the civil democrats. Motivating our politicians, successful politicians, is not getting a second salary. You said this law would reduce the motivation to win the mayor's post. I rule it out for the Civil Democrats. Our motivation for those who run repeatedly and repeatedly are elected by voters is to change something in their community, to try to change something in their region, to enforce their political agenda. So please, if you think that some of those running for mayor are running for mayor, those of the MPs who are running for mayor or the chief of staff or the vacant office, whether we speak only of the highest, please name them. [[Nesroz.]] Whether from a political club or personally. I rule it out for us. I'm staying back and defending my colleagues. And I would remind you that many of you, as well as many of you sitting here, used this against the campaign. And you convinced the voters - don't vote for them, they're already sitting in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm sure the rapporteur will confirm that. It's a legitimate part of the election fight, I'm not questioning it, but let's honor the results. The voters then, in many cases, I think in my club six times, decided and did not put the argument on. They voted not only for my political party, my colleagues in particular, and because they managed to do the second part of the post-election negotiations, they are the mayors today. Everyone knew ahead, but that's what they decided. And all we have to say to these colleagues today from this microphone that we congratulate them on having the voter's trust, and it doesn't matter which political parties they succeeded in municipal elections, many repeatedly, and we can really just congratulate them and where we lost to them, think about how to do it better next time to beat them. But not by changing the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u15	Thank you. Mr Birke's point of fact, Mr Adamec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll follow up on my previous speaker, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Exactly. I, too, am one of those mayors who faced pressure from the opposition in the municipal elections or those who wanted to defeat me and the social democracy in my city, that he has a job, he has two salaries, and they used this all the time, and yet, still! I, and not only me, but a whole bunch of colleagues sitting here today managed to win. And I congratulate them once more. Just as my colleague Stanjura says, by your means, Mr President. I'm sorry that the law here is basically coming from the workshop of one person who has his own problem in his county and can't solve it, and I'm so sorry, and it affects us who do 24 hours as mayor. We don't go to work for 8.5 hours a day. We do 24 hours, Saturdays, Sundays. If anyone doesn't think so, it's just the way it is! And one final point, perhaps, to the opposition benches. This proposal is not coalition, please. It's not coalition. Therefore, we clearly will not support this proposal as social democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u17	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we continue with factual remarks. Thank you for keeping up the time, colleague Birke. And now, Mr Ivan Adamec, also with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will be very brief. I have already proposed, at second reading, to reject this bill at third reading, because I really consider it a law that is completely out of bounds. Maybe let me comment on some of my fellow speakers' performances here. It's not a law on the accumulation of functions. If that were the case, I would consider it a legitimate discussion. It's a law on the accumulation of rewards. Let's call things real names. Pávek's colleague said it would be good for such changes to apply from the new term. I want to tell him that when Parliament is sitting, and it's still going on for 300 years, you can't be sure about property or life. Of course, Parliament can do anything and, in this case, it is likely to do so to a great deal of damage. I have to say, the real idea that someone is running to get a bigger salary for two jobs is completely wrong. I know this from experience, and I say in advance that at this point I am not in conflict of interest because it does not concern me. I'm a loose mayor. And I see that the pressure is the greatest where someone has a personal problem with a promise or where you have no experience, because you haven't been, your candidates haven't been so successful in the communal sphere and maybe they're here in the House, and you're certainly not going to discourage any of us who've been through it, and I think you're going to have a problem with your own political parties or movements in the future. Once again, it's not a law on the accumulation of functions, that's where I'd be for discussion. It is a law on the accumulation of rewards, it is a law on Czech envy, and I repeat again, I propose to reject it at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u19	I thank my colleague Adamc for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mrs Eva Fialová. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u20	Good morning. I would like to comment here on the arguments for cumulation or reduction of remuneration for doctors, health professionals, etc. One fact why politicians are to be reduced by the reward is that all of us sitting here and being municipal or regional politicians, so our knowledge and time we spend here, and experience is used in our normal work in municipal politics, but doctors, teachers, etc. They devote their free time to studying other things, certainly not using information from the Chamber of Deputies for their normal work. That's the main reason politicians use the information from here on in their work. That is why I support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u21	Thank you, Mrs Fialová, for keeping time. Now, Mr. Petr Beitl, a colleague of Bartoš, Ferjenčík, Michálek, Farský, Jurečka, Benda, Stanjura, Feranec will be ready. A colleague, Petr Beitl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u22	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I also have to say that this law is incredibly hypocritical and redundant. And I can really refer only to what I have already talked about here, and that is the responsibility of elected representatives who are not limited by this law, and anyone who sat in that town hall and had contracts in front of him in the morning, documents to sign, and they are tens and hundreds of documents in the week, so he knows what responsibility is, he knows how he can face attacks, and he knows that these attacks are not particularly easy these days, and they are not unrealistic, especially from the opposition and through the hundreds of documents that we dealt with here yesterday, when one is under permanent pressure and sometimes does not lie down to sleep at night at all. There was talk here, or the petitioner also talked about finances that end up in city budgets. I think it's good to hear it here. When I finished my duties as Mayor of the Statutory City of Jablonec, a city with nearly 50,000 inhabitants, I collected 56,000 crowns of pure. So today it might be 60,000. So please calculate the savings that will arise within 12 months in the billion-dollar budget of a city like this, and think about what can be done with the money and what can become a step next to a person who basically steps into that function without any experience. The law is another Egyptian blow to the councils of municipalities and cities, and it will certainly not lead to their improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Bartoš, a colleague of Ferjenčík will be prepared. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u24	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I, through the President, would just like to respond to Mr Stanjura. I'm sitting right next to him, so I'm learning from him. He is an old House matador and he says: Always listen to what those colleagues say, grab hold of it and then tell them how they said it and how it really is. So Mr. Stanjura was standing here yesterday saying that promoting his own program wasn't hypocritical. That's what the secretary said. We've been in the program all this time to fight against wage accumulation, against job accumulation, we think it's wrong, so we've been pushing for our program in the elections - logically. We had it written down, we told people. Just to the campaign. We have been repeatedly evaluated not only by linguists, but also by programme analysts, as we have the most rational campaign, communicating the facts, the campaign is positive. So if we were talking to someone in the campaign, see if it's a party that accumulates functions and her politicians are running for the county, here in the House, I think that against some campaigns that we have not only experienced in Prague, Mr Stanjura has just spoken here, so I think it is very rational, very positive, and points out the facts. Just as when we are dealing with the absence of Members in the House and colleague Ferjenčík here, through the President, I will borrow his words, he said the other day: So put it on billboards, how many you are in the House, how many people who are absent, we will put it there as we do. Well, I don't know if that says the quality of the job, or if it doesn't. There's just no offense here, but you should be proud of your job, so I think with everything. So it was just my reaction to Mr. Stanjura. We have a fight against unwanted accumulation, against hundreds of thousands of salaries, cleaning politicians into supervisory councils, so you will not approve the limit, as I have learned, so we have it on the agenda and so we are promoting it. There's nothing hypocritical about that. I think that's a legitimate way of political warfare that's decent. He works with data and facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u25	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and we are now continuing with the speech, the factual comment by Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I want to do it again, and I don't think I'm gonna drag this debate through on my own, but I'm gonna respond to the claim that these people have stood up in the election, so we have nothing to touch on their money. After all, how salaries will be set throughout the Republic, throughout the policy, is a decision at Parliament level, and yet the fact that we set some general rule that a loose mayor, who is a Member at the same time, will take less money for that role as mayor, has no bearing on the outcome of the municipal elections and those who vote in municipal elections have no way of influencing this. And that's the second argument. [[10.40 hours]] People, when they decide how to vote in elections, they have a variety of motivators to vote for someone. And unfortunately, they can't decide what those politicians are going to do in that position, that depends, of course, on those people. And they have some priority, like the programming priorities of the candidates. But I think if you asked these people if they'd like the politicians to take two salaries or just one and less half, they'd welcome the other option. It's just that they can never make that decision. Just because it's a support argument, why vote or not, doesn't mean it's the only argument that voters make decisions. That is why it is entirely legitimate to promote this at the level of the entire political sphere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now another factual remark by Mr Jakub Michálek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable representatives of the Government, fellow Members, what we are talking about here is simply whether a multi-functional will take 170 000 net, as he takes today when he has a Member's salary and mayor's salary, or only 130,000 net, so he will lose his salary by 40,000. I understand that the ODS colleagues are protesting this because some mayor's income will be reduced. I understand they're looking at it because they've secured it in the open market, so it should belong to them. However, I do not understand how it is possible that the reduction of accumulation of functions here defends the ČSSD... That the ČSSD is acting against what we're proposing here. Because the CSSD is supposed to represent workers, seniors. And now they're performing here that they're upset that they're only gonna take 130 clean ones. At the same time, the ČSSD had an intra-party referendum in 2014, where 92 percent of ČSSD members voted against the accumulation of paid public functions. [[A commotion in the hall.]] And what is the greatest peak of hypocrisy, ČSSD put it on its website with the headline Success of the intra-party referendum. So that's how the ČSSD fulfills its electoral vows. In this way, it actually despises its own membership base that when 92 percent of the members in the ČSSD approve something, the ČSSD will come out united here with the fact that they will not let them touch the 170 grand a month pure, so 130 grand is not enough. And I think that this is the peak of hypocrisy on the part of the ČSSD, which is intended to defend the interests of workers, seniors and the poor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jan Farský now. And I will repeat the actual remarks before I give the floor to my colleague Farský. Followed by his colleague Jurečka, Benda, Feranec, Krejza, Benešík, Veselý, Munzar and Birke. And, Mr. Ambassador, just a moment longer. He apologizes from 14:30 to 19:00 on account of his business trip, Mr Kubík. Now you have the floor to a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u30	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find the most disrespectful thing about this bill to be true of voters. The fact that we show and tell them that they are not actually entirely legal in their decisions. That's what bothers me. The insult to the voters. And that's what this law is. The people who ran for office, it was obvious what positions they were already in, what salaries they were taking. They could have gone to the campaign and said, "I'm gonna do this for free in your second job," and they could have scored a few extra points. But if they didn't choose this, and people elected them in free elections, they chose them, even if they had to take two salaries. And I can say it like that here, because I didn't use it in the 2010 campaign. I didn't say I was gonna be mayor on sale, but after the election, I got elected mayor-free, and that's why I gave up my salary. It was because of my conscience, for which I did not need any law, no command, no order. And I respect that there are municipalities where the mayor with his experience, insight and total limitations of his private life, all his hobbies will simply perform two paid functions for that community, if that's what his constituents want it to be, it's their will. Why should we tell voters in any community that they make bad decisions and that their decision needs to be revised? It's up to them to decide. Let's respect the voters. Let us respect the individual votes and respect them. They decide. We don't regulate them, let's not tell them how to make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u31	Thank you, Mr Farský, for keeping time on the point of fact. Before I give the floor to Mr Marian Jurečka, I will ask the House for peace. We are in a situation where there are factual remarks, and whoever I interrupt in order to settle for peace in the House, I am taking time for him to make a point of fact. If you have any discussions other than this bill, please, in principle, in the foyer. Now my colleague Marian Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u32	Mr Vice-President, members of the government, colleagues, when I listen to this debate here, I would like to propose that we return this amendment to the municipal law for second reading, because here is a discussion on the parametric questions why it is 40 percent, Mr Rais here asked about it. I didn't hear the answer here. I didn't even hear it during the second reading of how this value had just happened. And above all, and I said this in the second reading debate, my colleague Benešík, my colleague Farskýý and many others have clearly shown that the problem is solvable in practice. If the politician wants, he has the judgment, he has the peace, so he just comes in and says, "I'm going to perform that function as relaxed"?"that amount is fixed by the council, and it is settled. We're indulging legislation here with something that doesn't have to be addressed by this standard that's long overdue in practice today, because some people want it, and it's obviously hypocritical, so they're trying to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u33	I thank Mr Jurečka for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Marek Benda's point of view. A colleague, Milan Feranec, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u34	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to respond to what the rapporteur has said, Mr Bartoš, who, I assume, is not the appellant when he is the rapporteur. So I think he should inform about how it is discussed in the Public Administration Committee and not here enthusiastically shouting out how he is a fan of this law because it was on the agenda. If he is a plaintiff, then I find it completely immoral that he is the rapporteur at the same time. But I think you have to choose. [[Applause from the left side of the hall. Messenger. Bartoš yells, "I'm not a plaintiff!]] Either he's a plaintiff... All right. So he is not a plaintiff, then he should not walk and as a plaintiff with priority right to say: we do the Pirates program. So let the colleagues who co-signed this call. That's the first point. Second comment on a rare colleague, Michálek. I think the level of hypocrisy that has been shown here today is beyond the limits. That's what we're gonna be thinking, 170, 130 grand, and that's it. You guys have already played this game around the salaries of constitutional officials. I already considered it completely immoral and unsystematic and said it in vain here, and I could not be heard that it could not be regarded as an absolute amount of salary and shouted about the absolute amount of salaries here, but that we should talk about some public relations. But we're really gonna walk around here and yell, "He's got the power?" And one final point. If you ever talked in your programs, you were just talking about accumulation of functions. I've never noticed a wage accumulation in any of your programs. And this whole bill of law, as I've already said, I really think it's just a game of human envy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. After Marek Benda, Mr. Milan Feranec has the floor. Karel Krejza will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, just a moment. Gentlemen, please discuss outside this programme in the foyer, so that my colleague Feranec can use his time in peace and order under the Rules of Procedure for a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to respond to a fellow Adamec who spoke a while ago. I agree with what he says. He's right. It's not a law against accumulation of functions. It's a bill of prohibition or reduction by accumulation of rewards. I agree. On the other hand, when I listen to arguments about how it's an insult to voters, how it's a threat to democracy, I'm afraid so, I don't quite see it that way. There have been arguments from others. I've run several times in different elections, and I've never noticed anyone as a candidate saying they'd cover salaries there. None of us do. Of course not. This law is not about voters, it is not about worries, it is about whether we Members who work in the communal sphere voluntarily reduce functional benefits or limit them. It's about this. Of course, everyone makes a choice. The ODS will make a decision. The pirate will make a decision. I support Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal because we have it in our programme for a long time and I will therefore support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Karel Krejza, Mr Ondřej Benešík, will be prepared, also with a factual remark. My colleague, before I begin to measure your time for a point of fact, I again ask the House for peace of mind! If you don't respect yourself, at least respect the stenographers who have to record it. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u38	Mr Vice-President, thank you. I wanted to respond by your means to Mrs Fialová, who is a very sympathetic lady, but I do not understand very much why we should not use here the information we have from the municipalities we have from the House to improve the legal environment for our citizens. I think, on the contrary, everything is supposed to be transparent. We're acting like one. I don't see why we should be hiding anything, not using anything, maybe forgetting something. So I completely disagree with the argument here. As for fellow Pirates, the damage to the 21 new vacant posts of Vice-Presidents of Committees and Sub-Committees in Prague, I might even believe that they are concerned with the public finances. Not that much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ondřej Benešík with a point of fact, Mr Ondřej Veselý will be prepared. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u40	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here that this proposal is supported by the Ministry of Finance, because the funds will remain for use for municipalities, cities and regions. Of course, if you allow yourself to be disindulged, it's gonna stay even more, because there's nothing to be done on health and social security, it's just gonna stay there for everything, the whole gross wage, so it's better. But we're talking about self-government. Self-management is from the word that it is self-managed, independent, so the view of the Ministry of Finance is relevant, but it is definitely not important. I therefore ask whether the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, the Association of Local Authorities or the Association of Regions agrees with this, if they have a resolution on this. I really don't know. I'm not trying to catch anyone. I also want to ask you what has already been said here, how are we going to address the accumulation of salaries by politicians other than politicians who are also paid from public sources? We're dividing people into two groups here. We have focused on the unpopular policies, and we are no longer dealing with the others, as I said, in education or in health care, who can also perform vacant functions while being paid from public sources in their other jobs that they have kept. As for the mayor, who has 170 grand in the accumulated position, I know one who got elected mayor and got over 40 percent. He ran for MPs, jumped from an unchosen position with the mayor's function relaxed. Then, a year later, municipal elections followed, and he received even more votes in those municipal elections as a free-paying mayor and paid MP than in the previous elections. I don't dare legally regulate voters' opinion in a completely different city than mine. That's just their decision, and they decided they just wanted it that way. I myself have decided to give up my salary because I have not been able to fully perform the duties of mayor and MP. It was my free choice again. And I repeat, this option is, use it, we don't need a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u41	Thank you for keeping time. Now, colleague Ondřej Veselý, Mr Birke will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First, I will respond more calmly to Mikuláš Ferjenčík, through you. My colleague, you're wrong. Those people, when they vote, they're not assholes, and they know whether the mayor sitting there is taking or not, and they can probably figure out, at least the overwhelming majority of them, whether they're going to do the same, and yet they're still voting for him. So it's not true - of course, if you let a man decide whether a neighbor should have a dead goat or a live goat full of milk, they usually tell him to die. [[Nesroz.]] That's the thing about the paychecks. A little less calmly, again through the President, to Mr Michálek. There are three options. Either you can't read or you can't interpret texts or you're lying purposefully. Because the ČSSD referendum was completely different from what you said, so read it again. And stop wiping your shoes about us, because in 140 years of existence, our party has at least done something for this country. You just make people hate and envy. Then keep it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Birke, Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. My colleague, I will not give you my word yet, because I will ask the House once again for peace of mind. Do not force me to appoint individual Members who are talking about topics other than the amendment to the municipal law. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I have to be really gentle after my colleague, my previous speaker, because I've already been called before the mandate and immune committee once for rudeness and arrogance, so I have to be careful not to be convicted for the second time. But on the other hand, I'm sorry, I was here at second reading saying, and I was telling the story that concerns me, and it's always best to tell it from what you experience. Once again, I've never kept a secret for those three mandates that I'm running and I have two salaries. I've always told everyone that. Always everyone. Now I'm talking about the municipal elections. In the first municipal elections - winning, I became mayor. Two years later, with one salary - parliamentary elections, I jumped from fifth place to first place, became a Member. Three years later, in the municipal elections, with a Member's salary and the mayor's salary, I was the mayor's leader, I got 43 percent. For the next three years, with the salary of the Member and the Mayor, I was the leader of the Chamber of Deputies (?) and I became a Member. Subsequently, now in municipal elections, with the salary of a Member and mayor, I ran again and got 33 percent. I'm not talking about preferential voices, they were about 70-80 percent. They don't count because in every city it's different and it's incomparable. I repeat once again, simply and well, as you say - I will not respond to the performance of my fellow Pirates, it is not worth being cast by anyone here, but I just want to say one thing: Don't tell us who is voting for us. I don't even want to know who's voting for you, and I don't really care, but I just want to say that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u45	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u46	That's better, actually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u47	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Birke. Mr Ferjenčík now, Mr Petr Pávek will be prepared. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, but I have to respond to one thing. I was a little upset when Mr Farský stepped up here saying that this is contempt for the voters, because this is the second time we are discussing this law. For the first time, the House brought him back to rework, and Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová presented him again in much more severe form to pass through the House. Signed under the first draft law that dealt with this wage accumulation, among other things, Mr Farský, Mr Chvojka, Chairman of the CSSD Club, Mr Pávek. It is very surprising that these people here are now fighting against this law, which contains exactly the same thing, just a little bit cut off, like it's some kind of populism after they've presented it themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Petr Pávek's point of order now. Then prepare Mr Marek Výborný, Ivan Adamec, Zbyněk Stanjura, Ondřej Benešík. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u50	Thank you. This is really just going to be a brief factual point. Ladies and gentlemen, if this sprain of envy and populism passes in this House, my hopes will lie with the Senate. And if God forbid they're going to the Senate, then to the Constitutional Court. Because it is not possible to violate the principle of predictability of law. And this bill is exactly this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr. Marek Výborný. Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, fellow Members, I would like to respond to the words of Mr Feranc, who spoke here about voluntary limitation of remuneration. Well, if there's anything voluntary, it's not done by law. It's been resounding here. Each of us can be dislodged, and he can give up the reward, and he's a loser. Of course he can. We all know it's possible. And I really think, don't make us Members here, politicians of the wrong moron. Because of course anyone who wants to solve it can solve it. It's a free decision for everyone. I really don't know why we should adopt any laws on these things here. Because that, and that's what bothers me most about it - why and priori do we assume that every politician goes into his job to make money? That's not true. It's not true that the ambition, the motivation, is money. Maybe someone did, maybe the pirát. But not with me and us, I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, with a point of fact. Mr. Stanjura will be ready. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I will not give you my word yet, because I will ask the House once again for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, in a number of factual points, Mr Ivan Adamec is now on the list. Let him say his word in an environment worthy of consideration for the law on municipalities. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I almost wanted to tell you what the bill was, that is the reaction of the House. But, of course, we all have a slightly different view of it. And a colleague. In fact, the excellent one here told what I wanted to say to my colleague Feranc through you. That voluntary, I know this from another regime, when we also volunteered for elections and compulsory. And whoever didn't go was in big trouble. So, of course, it's not voluntarily prescribed by law. But I'll tell you something else. I won't tell you from my own experience how many times I won the election and what percentage I had. That's what I think you can find out on the Internet somewhere. But I have to say the reactions. When I first ran for the Senate in 2002, I worked for free for the city for six years and the citizens didn't know. Nobody cared. They didn't care. They were interested in the performances of those functions, not what I take for it. Then, in 2013, I ran for the Chamber of Deputies as a loose mayor, and I have to tell you, people knew, the opposition shot at me. And because they thought the 13th place on the ballot was safe for me not to make it to the House, it wasn't that sharp. I got there, oddly enough. Our colleagues made a mistake, they put me on the list, they shouldn't have done it, the situation has changed. Then there was another election in four years, and everyone was shooting at me. And if journalists want to look for excuses, they always talk about the accumulation of functions. But it doesn't affect voters. Because they want the performances. And by the way, I'm really glad that the pirát' representatives came out here with what they're taking, what they're taking, what they're taking, and all that. I'm saying again, it's none of my business. But I have to say, that's exactly what this is about. It's not about the accumulation of functions, so let's just say it. It's about the accumulation of money. Let's call things real names. But I don't think it's supposed to be like this. If we're talking about the accumulation of functions, yes, I am. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] We'll all be undone for 60 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u55	President Stanjura, with a point of fact, will prepare a colleague Benešík. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u56	There are strong words falling out here today, I'll join you. I consider it hypocritical, especially from some of the petitioners. Some colleagues - I'm sorry, there were really so many - said how this is not about our colleagues and colleagues who work in health care. Well, I say lucky and yet. And this hypocrisy - I will give you an example from the Senate and from my electoral region to see how hypocritical some members of the ANO movement are. So one of the few senators that YES has in the Senate is with the Bruntal Senate District, and besides being a senator, he is the director of two hospitals, two major hospitals in the Moravian-Silesian Region, Krnov and Opava. So he gets three salaries. I'm happy for him. I have to say, when he ran for the Senate, he was already the director of two hospitals. So the voters knew, yet they won. I say, congratulations to the winners. Why aren't we discussing this? He's paid out of public health insurance. I don't take it from him, I'm in favour of rejecting the law, and I'm against the law that there's going to be a rejection. But you who attack the mayors like that because you lost to them and you can't bear it, so you don't have the courage to attack others. So far, I'm noticing. So if it doesn't concern people who work in health care today, except that they're in the legislature, it could be different tomorrow. And explain to me why the mayor. Because it's focused on the mayors. And someone who's the director of two major regional hospitals isn't dealing with any accumulation of rewards. Maybe the answer is quite simple. The director shall be appointed by the Regional Council and sitting in it, chaired by the Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region for YES, who is also a Member for YES. So it's very hard to attack their director that he even has three and all of them paid for. And none of those submitters really mind!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment of Ondřej Benešík, then Marian Jurečka, Ivan Adamec and Pavel Bělobrádek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I overheard the information here that the law was cut off to pass. He's not supposed to be cut off right now. If you want to limit the salaries of politicians for the accumulation of office, you should just extend it to those other people who are being paid out of public money, and they're not mayors, deputy mayors, captains, vice presidents. That's unsystemic. Be systematic and let's talk about it. I was talking to my fellow pirates on the subject here, they said, well, you suggest it. Why would we suggest that? We don't want it. We don't want it. We only want the politicians. Well, that's pretty hypocritical. I don't want the politicians or the doctors. I just want the voter to decide. So be 100% and don't be populist. And one more comment. I also have a man in my constituency that we all know well. When he ran for senator, he said he'd keep the mayor's salary and take both. When he ran for chief of staff, he said he'd keep the two previous salaries and take the third. He said it openly. He wiped out everyone in every election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, also with a factual remark. And even if we don't name some, we still know who they are. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u60	Yes, thank you. So I think the discussion here quite well now has shown the degree of hypocrisy. So does the accumulation of functions bother you, or does the salary bother you? If the accumulation of functions bothers us, let us not be so narrow-minded, but let us look at those Members and Senators who sit on the supervisory boards that are in the board of directors of companies. Let us also look at doctors, look at the school sphere, the accumulation of Members, Senators, Rectors, etc. Let us also consider, for example, that the logic of the matter that is going on here, the debate, may bother that someone is not paying enough attention to the parliamentary mandate, because perhaps he is in business. Well, that might bother us, too. Please, let's remember the irrationality we're talking about here. I will not support this proposal, because in what I have said here - on purpose completely paradoxical examples - it is simply irrational, it is hypocritical. The fact that the YES movement has set a bar, and the three captains can't skip the bar, and they can't keep the word they gave before the election, so for God's sake, let's not do this here. Like at this point, how many of you are here on different supervisory boards, board members, congruent functions? Let's talk about it, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u61	I thank Mr Jurečka for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Ivan Adamec's point of view. Mr. Bělobrádek will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u62	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I am merely testifying to what I wanted to say in my first remark. I must say that the system we set up here, if this bill passes, will mean that unreleased officials have de facto significantly different conditions than those released. The council of the municipality shall decide on this release or non-release. We here actually want to take this bill to the council of the municipality, so that it is free to decide whether their mayor, vice-mayor, or councillors and, of course, to the governorship should be relaxed or unreleased. And there's a range of 60 percent. Of course, up to 60 percent is decided by the council. I have to say, it seems really weird to me, because it shows that it's not completely serious, what's being presented here. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room. Very poor hearing!]] And as for the accumulation of functions, from the beginning, I say that this is a topic that we can discuss, but we can go to ad absurdum. It doesn't have to do with the accumulation of functions that are paid. I would perhaps ask the general question of the pirát by your means, Mr President, if you also mean that, perhaps, the dislodgement of councilmen and representatives cannot then be members of Parliament. Because I think that's the result of the accumulation of functions and the elimination of this problem. Let's get some pure wine. And do you have all those members who meet this? I don't think so, so don't lecture us!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u63	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. He will be prepared if there is no factual comment, Mr Martin Kupka. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I think we're doing a little bit of advertising here by still performing. I think the matter is quite clear. If we want to limit the accumulation of functions, only fair and equally approachable is that a Member must not do anything else, that he must not do business, must not teach. Make sure he's got one job and one salary, and he's got nothing else to do. When I was a member of the government and of the MPs, I took zero crowns as Members. I'm not on any board of supervisors, I'm on the board of directors of the university, and I'll take zero for that. I don't care. You've heard x examples here that people who could take wages have given them up. You are here to attack the competence of individual municipal councils, because municipal councils can decide for themselves, not the man himself, he can give up, but the councils can vote whatever they want. That's in their jurisdiction. They can decide how much they're going to take, they can decide how much and if they're going to take anything at all. This is the competence of the municipalities and this is the law on municipalities. It's nothing but attacking politicians because they're unpopular. It's normal ugly populism where animals that are hunted are politicians. Why, then, does this not concern others - entrepreneurs, teachers, doctors, and anyone else? Why? If you guys are so cool, then suggest that a Member must have no other income but no other office. Then I understand. A policeman, if he wants to do business, he has to ask for it. So let's set up a committee here to decide if an MP can work at an IT firm, see if he can practice medicine. Do it. But what is happening here is really completely unnecessary, because municipal councils can decide that a long time ago because they have legal authority in the law. This is merely a plot on the rule of law and the pursuit of politicians!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u65	Mr President, thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Two more factual points. First Mr Benešík, then Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I know this media thing just can't be won, but it's a principle thing. The headlines will be how the pirát defend the interests of the voters because they don't want them to take two salaries. And as we see for ourselves, when we look rationally at the discussion, it really isn't black and white. And I repeat again because I have to say it again: I say it as a man who just gave up his second salary. He gave it up voluntarily because the law makes it possible today. You can all do it. And to my previous speaker Pavel Bělobrádek. That's right. If you are elected to the municipal or regional council, you will adopt a resolution: a relaxed, unreleased function. Well, if Benešík is going to run for office in the Strání, everyone knows he's an MP, they're going to tell him you want to run for office, so you're going to make him loose. That's easy. You want to, you don't want to? That is the authority of the council, which is elected directly by the people in the place. Oh, my God, let them have their powers! Let's not try to dictate to them all the time! Where they just want it so badly and they want it so much so that they can have it! Where they just don't want it, it doesn't want the politician, it doesn't want the voters, so they won't have it. But the only thing we're dealing with today is that we're dealing with the problem of individuals, and we're dealing with it really badly, unsystemically and populistly!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u67	Thank you, Mr Benešík, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. You have your word. Not yet, we'll wait a little while while you're at peace for your performance. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to Mr Benešík, the Excellent through you, Mr President. Please don't say misinformation here. There's no way you can give up your reward. You can't be an unreleased representative, instead of a grown-up, mayor with zero reward. The government's remuneration regulation clearly states that the minimum amount is 0.3 times that. So please don't say this misinformation here. If this is the way you set it up for your village or city when your inspection comes, he will tell you that you do not proceed in accordance with this regulation and in accordance with the law on municipalities. Please ask for an opinion from the Home Office. Please don't say it here. And at the same time to my dear colleague, Mr. Birke. Again, I would stress that I, along with Ivo Vondrák, Helena Válková, Milan Pour, Adam Kalous, Petr Sadovský, Jakub Michálek, but also Pavel Staněk from ČSSD. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr. Benešík, Vácha, Bělobrádek, Feranec. These are factual remarks that I am now planning to make. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not a liar. The representative of the village of Strání at the beginning of 2014 approved the reward zero for Mayor Benešík. That's how it's written. If I've committed a crime, a fraud, you're gonna send that control to us! And if you're saying that maybe it's 0.3, it's still less than 0.4. So you have the opportunity, you just said it yourself, through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr František Vácha with a factual remark, then Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. Ambassador, wait a little longer, too. The situation in the House will calm down... [[Members in the crowd in the left side of the hall are discussing very loudly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now to the left... You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u72	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Benešík said there's no media win. I think so, because those Members who come with the law are Members who feel responsible and feel that if the law had not been passed, their voters would have forced them to move from relaxed to unreleased and not take any money. But they're after the money, so they come with the law to get at least 0.4. That's what I think is a simple media shortcut that everyone understands. They just want to save some of their income. That's one thing. Second thing. I would really recommend not opening Pandořin's locker with the fact that someone who receives public pay couldn't run. I am the dean of the Faculty of Science, I finish in less than a month, but I was elected dean unanimously at the time I was a Member, and I was elected a Member, jumping to first place at the time I was dean. So the voters knew. I had it written on my billboards. But what I would like to say: If we want experts to come to the Chamber of Deputies, experts in their fields, and the Chamber of Deputies did not just become a closed group of professional politicians, who would do everything possible to keep those professional policies going, that is, they will do their utmost to do so, and the Chamber of Deputies will remain closed, we must somehow allow experts to get to the Chamber of Deputies, but also to make sure that they can return to their profession. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And they can only return to it if they continue to have contact with him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u73	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. We now have another factual comment by Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u74	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to clarify. I'm still on a few board boards, but it's all for zero crowns, so to speak. Otherwise, what was said here, so if someone promised not to take two salaries, then he promised to resign, then he would give it up for charity, and now he really wants to figure it out - and I agree with the Dean's previous speaker that the problem is a little bit elsewhere. 'Cause I'm the one who brought it up for the reason that we're here to say it's just for somebody. And why is it just for someone? Because politicians are hunted by animals, and it can just apply to them. And if the plaintiffs think that it will prevent local politicians from running in regional elections because it suits them because they are in need of personnel and because the mayor, who is good and popular, is going to be cut off because they want him there because they know that it makes sense for the local politician to work in the regional council or to represent them even in parliament, so if he thinks he's gonna stop them because they don't have them and can't put them in those regional elections next year, they can't stop them because they want them. And like many of us, we've been circled in municipal elections, because those people just want us there, even though we've been in unelectable places. And the whole point is, it's a good thing there's a connection. And if someone's taking money for it or not, it doesn't matter. I don't take the money. And if you argue with money, it's only to arouse human envy. I agree that it's really possible that someone here is proposing at least 40 percent. And we still haven't heard why it's 40 percent. Why isn't it 60 percent? Why isn't it 20 percent? Why isn't it 0.1? The council of the community can solve this, and everyone can solve it themselves. He can transparently put his salary on whatever he wants. Most of these people actually do it. I know specific people here, mayors who give a lot of their money to charity, support the nonprofit sector, and everyone knows it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u75	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I see Minister Staněk, but I cannot give him my word. With priority rights, I can, but after factual remarks under the Rules of Procedure. Minister, I'd be happy to give you my word, but when I've exhausted my factual remarks, which I've only succeeded once, and yet my colleague Kupka didn't get to the floor, because before I could say it, someone else has already been logged in. Mr Milan Feranec, Jan Birke, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, Petr Pávek and then I register the priority right of Minister Staněk and the proper application of Martin Kupka. Ambassador, I don't know if you're gonna yell it out. I haven't measured your time yet. Now. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed three factual points, responses to previous speakers. First, let's do this comprehensively. My experience is that if I don't want to deal with something, let's just say it comprehensively, let's solve it all. That means I don't want to deal with it. That's the first point. The second point is that we take responsibility for municipalities. We're not taking any jurisdiction. The representative may continue to decide to select them for unreleased duties and to set a salary of between 0,3 and 0,6. And the third point, I repeat again, this law isn't about voters, it's not about worries, it's about 6,500 or how many. It is about us Members, about the part that also operates in the communal sphere. It's about us. And to me, the length of the debate on the amount of my own salary seems a little undignified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u77	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Birke's point of order now. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u78	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, thank you so much for the floor. I promise, Minister, by your means that this is the last technical remark. Mr. Mayor Kupka, by your means, I am very sorry to keep you from making technical remarks. Allow me, however, to tell you by your help, Mrs Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková, that now I am very disappointed in your performance. You came to my desk about ten minutes ago, and you told me that our Minister or Member Staněk signed it, but that you wouldn't just say it on the microphone. And you did. I'm sorry. Because when you say something, it should be true. Apparently, it doesn't work in the Karlovy Vary Region if you say anything. I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u79	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Before I give her my word, I'm gonna read the papers. Mrs Karla Šlechtová apologises from the meeting from 14:30 to 19:00 for reasons of work and by 11:30 she apologises for reasons of work to Mrs Radka Maxová. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u80	Thank you for the floor. Only briefly. I just wanted to respond to the fact that I said the name Pavel Staněk here, a colleague of ours from the ANO movement, and I should have mentioned the name Antonín Staněk. I'd like to apologize for that. I'd like to fix it. At the same time, I did not want to speak at all in the debate, I think that the arguments, or what is going on here today, have already been said at second reading, are practically repeated. But because it's progressing in some way, sometimes it seems to me that it's escalating, so I wanted to say here who really supported the law. There are still a number of other Members, I have only mentioned a few. I would also like to say, I think that Mr Bělobrádek through Mr President, we are not at all dealing with the plaintiff of the municipal representative and regional representative in terms of cumulation of remuneration. Although the proposal is there through the pirát' amendment. Again, I say that the Committee on Public Administration has given a disagreeable opinion on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u81	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Petr Pávek, with a point of fact. Mr. Marian Jurečka will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask Mrs Vildumetzová how she dealt with the accumulation of functions. Is it true that you accumulate functions, Madame? Is it true that you're the Governor and that you're the Member? Is it true that you take full pay for both functions? Could you comment on why, as a number of other colleagues, you did not give up something like this? How come you didn't just give up your salary here or there? How come you just accumulate those functions when you promised you wouldn't? Could you answer that for me here, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u83	Thank you. Mr Marian Jurečka, with a factual remark and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, wants to answer, so I will also give her the floor on a factual point. Mr Martin Kupka is still registered. Just a little while longer, Mr. Ambassador. Once again, I will ask the House for peace. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u84	Perhaps I would like to extend a little more what my colleague Pávek said here, because, in fact, even in the media space, it has repeatedly been heard, now I turn to the petitioner through the President, or the representative of the petitioners of Mrs Vildumetzová, because it sounded publicly to the general public from her mouth that she would not accumulate functions. She said if she was elected an MP, she'd be the most unreleased captain. Last year, she said she was going to leave her office until the end of the year. She repeatedly said that she was upset with the accumulation of functions, that she didn't want to take wages for it. In public sources, we could read that the Governor's salary would be paid for charity purposes. And when the journalists asked how much was given for charitable purposes, the question remained unanswered. I'm sorry. But since this amendment to the municipal law is justified here by the fact that there is something to be dealt with systemically with all Members, senators, who can possibly accumulate functions within self-government, but it simply stems from this case, where the matter, which the Governor has simply said, has given her parliamentary, governor's word, could have been fulfilled long ago. We didn't have to deal with it at all, we could do more important things, but unfortunately, we're dealing with it. So if this is a matter in public space, if it was a word of politics, a policy behind the YES movement, when the ANO movement said that functions would not accumulate here, then I would like these questions, which were also raised by journalists, to be answered directly here in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u85	Thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. The honourable Member wishes to make use of the factual point, probably an answer. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, there has again been false information - Mr Pávek through Mr President. I am historically the first unreleased governor to receive a 40 percent reward, as approved by the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u87	Thank you. I've exhausted the factual points. A colleague, Petr Pávek, is making a point of fact, if I understand that, Mr Pávek?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u88	My colleague, through Mr President, I did not say that, I asked the question, so do not lie to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u89	Thank you. I have no factual point. Mr Martin Kupka and with priority rights, Minister Staněk are duly enrolled. So now Minister of Culture of the Government of the Czech Republic. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize to Mr Kupek for putting him away one more place. Maybe after my performance, it'll be about a whole bunch of other factual points. However, I can only say a few facts. When I signed the bill for Mrs Vildumetzová, I did so in full consciousness and conscience, but also in holy enthusiasm at the moment when I was bombarded by the media for the accumulation of functions, that I had taken the liberty of being Mayor of Olomouc and, at the same time, a Member, and then, on top of all that, the Minister. I have to say that none of the journalists ever asked me how I was doing my job, not even my colleagues did. If he did, they only asked in a way - he can handle, he can't handle what he did, he didn't do. Obviously, this isn't about whether or not you can handle your job when you combine your functions, but it's just about one thing, and it's about money. Really, this whole debate is about nothing but calling the genie out of the bottle, envy and envy. I think there are a lot of people here who accumulate functions, and everyone knows very well that it's at the expense of the family, at the expense of a whole lot of other things, that it's really not that we're primarily after money. For this reason too, I must say that I cannot, say, withdraw the signature under the law, but that I will not support it, it has decided for me an important thing, and this really disgusting debate by journalists about what I will give or not give my funds, which I have received properly and objectively. Yes, I said I'd put it in charity. But we all know that there are a number of charity projects that are perfectly managed by marketing, which receive relatively large funds, and I really wanted to make an objective decision about which project, perhaps less significant, I will give it. And I didn't say I'd do it in one year. I have three or four years. Each of us supports a whole series of charity activities, and we don't even take a deal from it, because you just put in a thousand-caloron, you put in two grand, and I don't even admit it to my tax return, so I can get my tax back. I just do it naturally and normally. Each of you can say people come to you - you can support, you can add to the prom if you can put there... Yes, they know we have the money, so we'll put the money there. But what happened with the journalists that I took the liberty of stating - and I put it objectively for what I put the money on, and they crapped whether it was right or wrong, whether I should have given more, should have given less, should have given it this month or next month. I mean, what's going on? It's all about the dehonestation of us politicians, it's about showing us in front of all the people in the light that it's us who are hoarding the money. That's the only intention. It's just a game of envy. And I refuse to play this game. So I apologise, Madam President, but I will not support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u91	I thank the Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic Staňek for his speech. Now, before my colleague Martin Kupka, with a factual remark from Mr Válek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u92	I'll be very brief. Listening to it, I remembered the year 1989, if you remember, the famous performance by Milouš Jakeš: "Ta Zagorová! I'm not saying she's a good girl, but do you know how much she takes?" So I'm waiting for someone to bring it up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u93	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Martin Kupka, Mr Václav Klaus, who has been duly applied for, will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, it's up to you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u94	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the House is also teaching endurance and patience, so I have waited, after more than an hour. I will also try to bring some substantial arguments as to why I consider the law and its approval to be a bad step. We all agree that the Czech Republic has unnecessarily many paragraphs, that they are growing increasingly disproportionately, and that this is one of the things that is also a real obstacle to people in the Czech Republic doing better. We in our program clearly have that we will be against any unnecessary regulation. This is a concrete, clear, proven example of completely unnecessary regulation. We really can't think that the sections are supposed to change their responsibilities. And this is the next step, even though self-government has tools to deal with it, deciding whether a politician will be relaxed or unreleased, and within an unreleased function, they can continue to decide on the amount of the reward. So here are real tools to deal with the problem of accumulation of rewards and how to do it so that, of course, it corresponds primarily to the agreement in that self-governing body. I don't see any problem with that. Indeed, there are personal reasons why lawmakers are doing this. But adopting laws for such specific personal reasons is simply not a good recipe. We say it's useless regulation. Any regulation that is above the level, which will, moreover, challenge a different decision-making option, is also harmful to further flooding and fogging of the rule of law. So I also call for this particular reason not to adopt this standard. A number of important arguments have been made here that even this debate has become a place for those who want to be jealous again and piss off against politicians. Yes, it is a populist song, it may work, but in the result it will clearly have a counterproductive effect for further development of Czech policy. Because what is going on in both national and municipal politics is also not to lose contact with ordinary life. And I assure you, when it was said here that it is clear that mayors can bring to their mayor's practice experience from the Chamber of Deputies, so I also say that vice versa the mayor, the governor brings important feedback from his work for his work in the Chamber of Deputies. And so is the case for all doctors and teachers who also work here on the law and try to take into account what they have learned at school or at the hospital to make laws better. In that regard, their practice and contact with life are not only welcome, but even very, but very useful for us to adopt better laws. And here it has been shown many times that it is the mayor's approaches, people's approaches from specific practice that are to create better laws, a clearly important instrument and an important support. [[11.40 hours]] I will also try a few clear summaries of why we should not adopt the legal standard. It has been said several times here, and this is more of a summary that it finds itself in a situation where it essentially causes the law to be retroactivity. Because those who are in office at the moment, in their term of office, have entered this term with some knowledge and validity of the laws, and now, during the match, the conditions are to change. This is unacceptable, and it is undoubtedly unconstitutional, because in this case, the conditions for running are simply not meant to change. Another important thing, which also shows the poor quality of the amendment presented, is that it is disproportionary. It was made clear here that in the case of those who are not released for office, the government's regulation limits 60 percent. In this case, free politicians would be 40 percent. Why? What are the reasons for this? What led to this? Another important question is that there will be disproportionary conditions for those who are active at regional and municipal level. That is also a specific, factual reason why we should not accept the law in any way. And a number of times here, it was also said what the economic effect was. Absolutely insignificant! From the point of view of how small towns and small towns should function. This will not determine how they will develop well in the future and what they will be able to invest money in. This is really a completely unnecessary, redundant and harmful proposal, even in the sense that it only overwhelms the Czech rule of law again, creates new, unnecessary regulation and brings people because mayors and MEPs still remain citizens of the Czech Republic, so it brings to them unnecessary other restrictions that we do not need. They have enough responsibility to make decisions based on their reasoning and conscience. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u95	Thank you, Mr Martin Kupek. Now, Mr Ondřej Benešík with a factual remark, then Mr Václav Klaus. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u96	Thank you for the floor. I have another experience, too. Unreleased official, if he quits his job, he doesn't take his severance pay. I'm asking if a functionary who stays in a relaxed position with such a reduced salary takes a severance payment. That's quite essential. I would also like to say that, of course, I find out how it was in 2014, but it really seems that I did not receive the salary in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u97	Thank you. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, with a factual remark and still awaiting Václav Klaus. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u98	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been a lot of words here about how important the transfer of information is, how good it is that the mayor, the chieftain, the deputy may transmit or transfer his experience here to the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, and how beneficial it is for everyone. But why should only some here have that advantage? I am a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region. I would very much like to be at the Moravian-Silesian Representation tonight, and I have no chance of being in that council as opposed to other colleagues who direct the council and call it tonight. And I'm just sorry I can't get the information from my county. Let's just talk about this level of the thing that here in this proposal is completely forgotten, that we are from those regions, each of you, and I don't believe that there is a member of the region who would say "I don't care what's going on in this region, what topics are there, they just tell me and I'll carry it here" That's a plane that didn't even ring a bell, and I'm personally sorry. Either let's have a level playing field, and we're all gonna be involved in all these councils and we're gonna be pumping the information, or we're not gonna use this argument here, as it's beneficial for some people who have the function dubbed up and can transfer information here, and we're denied it because we prefer to do 100% of the work where we were elected, and we know for ourselves that we just can't deal with it in time, sitting on two chairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u99	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u100	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry to keep you guys a little longer today. There are several reasons. One of them is that I am actually convinced that the fact that the legislative process is lengthy is a good thing. Because if we work like people in the private sector, we're gonna push 700 laws on those citizens in a month, and that republic won't last. So the longer people here argue about nonsense, that's good. I'll sum up today. I was pleased to note that we have two Czech laws and one implementation. So we accepted Mr Hnilička's national agency, the sport, then we accepted a stranger, which was European implementation. I didn't want to do it here yesterday, but I decided never to support another implementation law for the two and a half years I've been sitting here. And to tell you in particular, about last night, the next time you walk around on that campaign and make promises to those voters and tell them how you represent them and what you do, you don't lie to them and tell them, well, 60 percent of me will be a voting machine and I'll be like a sheep to raise my hand for the laws that come here, and I'll act 40 percent according to my preferences and what I promise you. Now, in order not to take my word for it, I'm finally gonna get to the municipal law that we're discussing right now. I must say that I think this law has a particularly bad name, because I think it should be called the Pre-election Promise of Governor Vildumetzová and his connotations. So it's a little confusing. But I'm not such a House Jurist to contradict it. As usual, I will say something other than other Members. I'll tell you a vision of what it should look like. I will vote against - with the whole club, of course - this law, but I will give you a vision of how I feel. The state should be strong and small. For example, I appreciate a lot of senators, I think the Senate is much better politically, especially in the last parliamentary term, but even now, or much more, I am in agreement with it. However, I do not think that democracy is an insurance policy. If he wasn't, we could move into that much nicer building. I think 100 Members would have sufficed for such a small republic. Because such prominent Members, like Mr Kalousek and others, are not even 100 together, and a lot of people are here just to sit here and vote for the chair. I think that the laws should be so few that those Members could normally work, come and discuss the agenda once every two months within four or five days, and go back famously to the regions where there would be respected working citizens, come, lower taxes and leave again, there would only be a permanent committee sitting here. So that's probably the vision I'd like to see. It is, of course, disjoint with what we are discussing. Anyway, I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u101	I thank Mr Václav Klaus. I'll ask the House for peace. We have a factual comment from Mr Pavel Bělobrádek... Mr President, before I give you my word, I would like to see enough peace... Please, you have the floor on a point of fact. [[Messenger. Thank you, Mr President.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u102	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry I didn't wait for you to finish. I hope that the law enforcement authorities and all anti-corruption activists did not escape the fact that the MP here confessed to breaking the law and, like, rarity robbed himself and illegally did not pay off what belonged to him by law. I don't think it should escape attention, and I'm wondering if ondOndřej Benešík for not having illegally paid his salary and that his municipal council broke the law and didn't pay him a penny for being an MP and at the same time mayor, so he didn't get anything for doing the mayor. Just so it doesn't fit in here, 'cause I think it's pretty unique for the mayor to rob himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u103	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We've exhausted the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. We will vote on Mr Marian Jurečka's procedural proposal because in the third reading, the proposal fell under Paragraph 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 to repeat second reading. I'll ring the bell. I've already checked you out once, now I'm going to check you out again, I'm going to ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. As soon as the number of applicants is settled, I will vote. In the meantime, I shall read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Vít Rakušan apologizes from 16.30 pm due to negotiations in the Liberec Region until the end of the meeting day. There's more logged in, I'll reengage. I repeat that in the third reading in the debate pursuant to Section 95 para. 2 was proposed to repeat the second reading. We'll decide that immediately. Before we proceed, I would call on the rapporteur. We will decide in the vote number 255, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of repeating the second reading. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 255, 170 for 54, against 85, has not been accepted. So I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Vice-Presidents, Mr Rapporteur? It's not like that. In that case, we'll continue. Before I give the rapporteur the floor to introduce us to the voting procedure, I have here a proposal that we will already implement with the rapporteur, and that is a motion to reject the bill. Yes? That's right. So at the beginning of the third reading, we are voting on the motion to reject, which we will decide in voting number 256, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the motion to reject. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 256, from 173 for 48 present, against 81 Member. The motion was not accepted. In that case, I ask the rapporteur of Mr Ivan Bartoš's guarantee committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments, and before the vote he expressed the opinion of the guarantee committee. I'll ask the petitioner to do the same. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would therefore like to introduce you, as has been said here, to the procedure decided by the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. He recommends that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the following order on the proposals submitted to the draft law according to House press 273/3. There were no legislative technical proposals, the procedure is very simple. We have already decided on this first motion to reject, so the vote is as follows: Together we would vote on point A and C, both of them are from the SPD workshop and they are talking - I will just say it briefly and then I will repeat it in the vote itself - they are talking about the zero version that the representative would not receive any reward in the second position. If A and C were approved, the following B1 is non-voting. Proposals that are B1, B2 and B3 would be voted separately. These are Mr Jakub Michálek's proposals. Proposal B1 shifts the plane, we talked about it here and in relation to the region and the municipality, talking about the 0.4 rewards for municipalities and regions. Proposal B2 introduces - in the case of a public office of the managing authority, a remuneration of 30 thousand should not exceed that of the managing authority. CZK a year, and there's this cross transmission to those governing bodies that are under another, like the city section. And the last proposal B3, which says that this law would also apply to the President of the Czech Republic. We would then vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u105	Okay. Is there a reminder of the procedure? It's not like that. We will decide on the procedure for voting in the number 257 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 257, from the presence of 176 for 173, against no one, the proposal was adopted. The first proposal, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u106	The first proposal I have made is a joint vote on proposals A and C. It's her zero reward in the performance of the second elected post. The opinion of the Public Administration Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u107	The plaintiff? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 258, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 258, from 177 in favour of 24, against 88, has not been accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u108	The next proposal is therefore B1 of the translator Jakub Michálek. This is the 0.4 reward, which also moves to the Prague City Representation to the lower level. It therefore extends beyond the Senator, Member and other posts, but it also shifts to that level. The opinion of the Public Administration Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u109	The plaintiff? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 259, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 259, from 177 in favour of 24, against 92, has not been accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u110	The following is the vote on Amendment B2. The promoter is Jakub Michálek. In the case of public officials, the remuneration of the members of the managing authority should not exceed 30 000. CZK annually and speaks of cross transmission to management bodies which are not directly subordinate. The opinion of the Public Administration Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u111	The plaintiff? [[Neutral.]] I've started voting number 260. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 260, from 177 in favour of 24, against 82, has not been accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u112	The last amendment is Amendment B3. The promoter is Jakub Michálek. This is the inclusion of the President of the Republic in the list of public officials within the meaning of the Conflict of Interest Act. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u113	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 261. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 261, from 177 in favour of 26, against 108, the proposal was rejected. Have we exhausted all the amendments, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u114	Yes, and we have to vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u115	Yes, thank you. I'm sorry, vote number 262 is misguided. And I will put forward a motion for a vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with Jana Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal, Ivo Vondrák, Helena Válková, Milan Pour, Petr Sadovskýý and others for the law amending Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on municipalities, as amended, Act No. 129/2000 Coll., on Regions, as amended, and Act No. 131/2000 Coll., on the capital of Prague, as amended, according to the House press 273, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[municipal establishment]] [[Regional establishment]] [[12.00 hours]] We will decide in the vote number 263, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 263. From the present 166 for 93, versus 40. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you, Madam Vice-President Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, thank you to the rapporteur and I finish with paragraph 110. At the same time, I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-003-110.u116	Hello. Initiating item discussion
