ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-004-090.u1	90. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification The Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Ghana on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes and profits from the disposal of property and the Protocol to it signed in Accra on 11 April 2017 /German press 95/ - Second reading I ask the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová to take the floor and justify this proposal. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-004-090.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting today, I present a treaty to prevent double taxation with Ghana, signed on 11 April 2017 in Ankara. The Czech Republic currently has international agreements on double taxation with almost 90 countries in the world, but Ghana is not yet among them. In international taxation, it is crucial whether a country which has a certain role in the business and financial intentions of the Czech taxpayers has a tax treaty with our state, and this is certainly the case with Ghana. The Treaty does not replace the national tax rules of the Contracting States and cannot therefore create a new tax obligation but only regulates the obligation arising from national rules. It contributes to the objective distribution of the right to tax on individual types of income between the two States, that is between the State of the source of income and the State of its beneficiary. This comprehensive tax contract covers the taxation and exclusion of international double taxation of all possible types of income. It also provides for the basic forms of cooperation between the competent authorities of both countries as well as the principle of non-discrimination, the informal resolution of disputes arising from its implementation, as well as the relevant exchange of information between the competent authorities of both countries. The contract will increase legal certainty of potential investors of both countries, create room for other Czech business entities and thus help develop mutual economic relations. An integral part of the contract is also a protocol that contains the highest benefit clause in favour of the Czech Republic in the event that Ghana negotiates with a third State a more favourable regime in the context of the provisions on taxation of income from technical, advisory and managerial services provided than that contained in the contract. The double taxation treaty, which is now proposed in the relations between the Czech Republic and Ghana, was prepared on the basis of OECD and UN model models, and, of course, also responds to the internal tax rules of both countries. For further information, I would like to say that in May last year, the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agreed to ratify this Treaty. Therefore, I ask you to take these facts into consideration when discussing this international treaty and to give your consent to its ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-004-090.u3	I thank the Minister and the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mr Jaroslav Holík, for the committee's resolution. We have it delivered as House press 95/2. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-004-090.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to say something after such a detailed report by the Minister. Since almost a year has passed between first and second readings, I will just remember that these are African states. We currently have contracts with Egypt, Ethiopia, South Africa, Morocco, Nigeria and Tunisia. And Ghana would join it. So if you don't mind, I'd like to read here the Foreign Committee resolution, which was April 25, 2018. [[11.20 hours]] The Foreign Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies shall adopt the following resolution: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic [[I.]] Approves the ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Ghana on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes and profits from the disposal of assets and the Protocol thereto signed in Accra on 11 April 2017; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. It hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur to report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this government proposal at a meeting of the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-004-090.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. T has also discussed this proposal on its own initiative by the Committee on Budgets. We have a resolution at our disposal by the House Press 95/1, please, Mrs Ivana Nevludová, to take the floor as rapporteur and tell us what the committee has come up with. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-004-090.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall read the resolution of the Committee on Budgets of the 7th meeting of 25 April 2018. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Hrdlička, Mrs Nevludová's intelligence report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Ghana on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes and the profits of the disposal of property and the Protocol thereto signed in Accra on 11 April 2017; II. empowers the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-004-090.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open the debate. No one is enrolled in the debate. I'm done with the conversation. We will proceed to the vote. There were two motions for resolutions, which were formulated by the Committee on Budgets and by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We will vote on the motion for a resolution in the form presented by the Foreign Committee. That's what I'm proposing here. I will read to you once again the motion for this resolution. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives its consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Ghana on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes and the profits of the disposal of assets and the Protocol to it signed in Accra on 11 April 2017.' If there is no objection, I will now vote on the motion for this resolution. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 122, 140 Members registered, for 131, against 0, the proposal was adopted. I thank the Minister, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, and I conclude with this point. I'm opening another point.
