ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-14-ps2017-027-07-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, Mr Vice-President of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 27th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. Let me start with an organizational statement. Yesterday, the Organising Committee adopted Resolution No. 171, which concerns the confirmation of Members' participation in the deliberations of the Chamber of Deputies and its institutions. Following this resolution and due to the proper record of the Members to be entered, the management meeting shall, at the outset, be signed out and subsequently requested to be logged in by identification cards. This is because the original login for you already means that you are presented, that you are attending that day and there is no need for further signing or apologizing etc. It follows that we have commissioned the House Authority, the Organising Committee, to keep records and attendance statistics. So I'm going to check you out at the beginning, and now that you've signed up, you've presented yourself during the meeting. Otherwise, we couldn't have followed up on those applications that were before when you put it there before nine o'clock - human language. Ivan Bartoš, within 11 hours - working reasons, Jiří Běhounek - working reasons, Mihola Řehounek - family Schwarzenberg, Jiří Bláha - Karla Šlechtová, Milan Brázdil for morning work reasons, Dominik Feri within 11 hours for work reasons, Petr Gazdík within 13 hours for work reasons, Radek Holomčík until 9.50 for personal reasons, Milan Chovanec within 11 hours for personal Adamec, Ivan Jáč within 11 hours for work reasons, Adam Kalous by 11.30 for work reasons, Miroslav Kalousek for health reasons, Martin Kolovrobrodník - Ivo Vondrák, Radek Koten - working reasons, Lubomír Profant - Karel Volný, Pavel Kozlová - family žáček, Jan Kubík - working reasons, Jana Levová - medical reasons, Jan Lipavskýý - health reasons, Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková - personal reasons, Jiří Mašek - health reasons, Bohuslav Svoboda, Eva Matášek. They apologize from the members of the government: Andrej Babiš from the morning meeting - working reasons, Jan Hamáček until 11 o'clock - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - foreign trip, Tomáš Petříček - foreign trip, Miroslav Toman - working reasons, Adam Vojtěch - foreign trip. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 157, which is the response of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their drawing shall then take place. Opening point
