ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-009-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, Act No. 154/1994 Coll., on Security Information Service, as amended, and Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended / House print 240/ - second reading The Prime Minister, Mr Andrej Babiš, is to present the Prime Minister on behalf of the Government, but at the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek was charged with speaking. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-009-008.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the amendment specifically contains amendments to three laws, namely the Czech Intelligence Act, the Czech Security Information Service and Military Intelligence, the amendment being led by a single line in relation to all three Czech intelligence services, and in principle responds to the experience gained from the evaluation of the current situation by the intelligence services themselves. The draft law contains, in particular, an adjustment laying down the procedure for obtaining information from the Directorate-General for Customs. Today, there is a special procedure for obtaining information from the General Financial Directorate, and a similar regulation is introduced in relation to the Directorate-General for Customs, while - and this is related to not disrupting the activities of intelligence services - the intelligence service makes it possible for this information to be requested through another authorised authority. Of course, the reason is obvious. The further amendment relates to the issue of registration protection and data keeping in public information systems, where it is therefore intended, in particular, not to reveal the identity of the persons to whom the cover documents were issued, or not to reveal that the cover documents are cover documents. To this end, the legislation will also allow for the creation of a corresponding legend in other, seemingly unrelated information systems of public administration, which, if someone illustrates the person, will not raise doubts as to whether the person is equipped or is not equipped with cover documents. Another relatively important change that should contribute to greater security of the Czech Republic is the creation of a so-called reference database of digital forms of persons. This will be an information system that will not contain the names of specific persons, but will contain forms, or pictures of persons interested, problematic, such as terrorists, which will then be able to be compared to records from camera systems, and thus the movement of persons who may potentially be very dangerous to the Czech Republic can be detected, and personal data can only be searched for if there is an agreement between the observed form and the recording of the form of a person of interest. The last heading of the amendments then represents the unification of deadlines for the use of intelligence technology, in particular for the possibility of using wiretaps and telecommunications traffic records, where it is now stipulated that the use of wiretaps and records is carried out for a period of three months, and we propose that this be for a period of four months in order to align it with criminal law. The proposal was discussed by the Committees, the Committee on Security and the Constitutional Committee. Both committees have recommended, as the rapporteurs will certainly say, that the proposal should be approved, that the Constitutional Legislative Committee has recommended some amendments, which I am announcing that the government and the petitioner therefore agree with these proposals. I therefore ask that the proposal be released by third reading, because it is another contribution to increasing the security of the Czech Republic and it is a relatively balanced strengthening of the powers of intelligence services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-009-008.u3	That was the Minister. I will read one apology when, for reasons of work, Mr Daniel Pawlas apologizes from 15.30 to 18.00. The proposal was ordered at first reading to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 240/1 and 240/4. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Security, Mr Vít Rakušan, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Mr. Ambassador... [[The President shall look around the Chamber.]] Mr. Vít Rakušan is not here, so I would ask the Security Committee to identify any other rapporteur... If you can make a deal... I've got the evidence for the proposal, if necessary... So who's gonna be the rapporteur? Because we would have to vote on changing the rapporteur... [[He's waiting.]] [[15.40 hours]] I would therefore like to make a five-minute break on the ground that Mr Vít Rakušan, who was originally the rapporteur, is not here, so Mr Koten, the chairman of the committee, would take it. However, he'll have the evidence prepared. So I'd call a five-minute break, which means we'd meet at 15.46. [[A Austrian MP has arrived.]] Well, I've already announced the break, which means somebody's been counting on her, and some Members have already left the O.R., so we're gonna have to wait. Meet me here at 15.46, and I'd like to keep the microphone informed, because I'm sure he can hear me, Chairman of the Security Committee, Radek Koten, that he doesn't have to be involved anymore, because Mr. Vít Rakušan has arrived. There you go. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 15.41 to 15.46 hours.]] The break's over, so let's keep going. So now I ask that the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Vít Rakušan, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-009-008.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your help, I apologize to colleagues and colleagues for a forced five-minute break. Allow me to introduce you to the report of the Security Committee, which is, in the present case, a guarantee committee of the press. Another committee dealing with the press is the Committee of Constitutional Law. Committee on Security of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening speech presented by the Director of the Department of Government Legislation responsible for the management of the Department of the Legislative Council of the Government Mgr Tomáš Dundr, following the rapporteur's report to the Vice-President of the Committee, Jiří Mašek, and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that with a government bill amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, Act No. 154/1994 Coll., on Security Information Service, as amended, and Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended, House Press 240, agreed; II. agrees with the resolution of the Constitutional Committee number 120 of the 38th meeting of 20 March 2019, House press 240/3; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; 4. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of this resolution. So many reports from the Security Committee, which did not apply any amendments during the discussion of the press, however, I referred to the adopted resolution of the CIP, which applied the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-009-008.u5	Thank you. And now I ask the rapporteur of Mr Marek Benda's constitutional committee to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-009-008.u6	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Legal Committee has discussed this bill at its two meetings. In conclusion he recommended and also recommended a number of changes and supplements, which I will of course not read to you at the moment. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'll try to give you a brief explanation and an assessment. In contrast to the Security Committee, the Constitutional Committee is always quite strict in order to strengthen all possible types of intelligence services and their powers, but we have finally turned to the fact that we have recommended that we believe that the changes proposed here, in contrast to some other changes that are announced in various preparatory work plans, whether the Ministry of Justice or even more often the Ministry of the Interior, which will undoubtedly encounter much greater opposition from the Constitutional Legal Committee, the Constitutional Committee has recommended that the Chamber of Deputies approve them. We believe that they can really improve the quality of the work and the functioning of intelligence services while, at the same time, not significantly disturbing and disturbing the personal integrity of people living in the Czech Republic. The changes we have recommended to you are of a double character. The first is more or less technical. We simply considered it completely unnecessary that the modification of the cover documents and the means for it to be different in the Security Information Service Act and the Military Defence Intelligence Act, because if we chose a different modification and a different wording, it could only lead to confusion as to why, in the laws that want to modify the same thing in the same way, different wordings are chosen. That is why, in agreement with the Government's legislation, we have consolidated the wording so that they are identical in both laws. The second change is, say, a material nature and is based on a debate that has run particularly on the Security Committee and, in particular, with the doubts raised by the Security Committee, namely the obligation of others, other than the State and its organisations, to inform the public authorities of their activities. Finally, we agreed that we would remain with the existing text, where all public authorities, including self-governing authorities, including even self-governing authorities, were obliged to inform, at their request, not only of the territorial nature but also of the professional nature, and also to respond to their request for a service on matters relating to the delegated performance of the administration, but not to issues relating to their internal functioning of the self-government. We think that this significantly simplifies the communication of services with the municipal authorities, in this case at the level of the secretary or, at the same time, the state service, and at the same time does not give rise to doubts as to whether this cannot be disrupted by the self-government, the more so, of course, by the self-governing organisations of the professional, not the territorial type, where we understand that the authorities of the State in the form of services are interested in obtaining information relating to the delegated performance of the state administration, at the same time, it is not clear why they should have the need to obtain information concerning the self-governance of the given chambers. So these are the changes recommended by the Constitutional Committee and at the same time recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the bill. Allow me to thank the Government legislation, in this case the Office of the Government, for the cooperation and cooperation it has given us, and, of course, for the directors of services who have also been very involved in finding some identical wording and being able to recommend a definitive version by the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-009-008.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And so I am now opening up a general debate which, of course, I have no application for, so I will look around the hall. I don't see any interested parties, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder whether either the rapporteurs are interested or the Minister with final words. You don't. So now we don't even have a motion to return the bill to the guarantee committee, so I'm opening a detailed debate. I don't see anyone in a detailed debate. I'll look around the O.R. I'm not interested. I'm ending the debate in detail. Again, I ask for formal reasons whether there is an interest in final words. Neither the rapporteurs nor the Minister, so we have no proposals that we should vote on. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Now, I'm going to read the apologies that have piled up for me here. Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk apologizes from 15.45 to the end of the day for work reasons. Mr Petr Gazdík apologizes between 15 and 19 a.m. due to illness. Mr Dominik Feri apologises from 15.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. We will now proceed to the next point. This is the point
