ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u1	151. Government bill amending Act No. 72/2000 Coll., on investment incentives and amending certain laws (the Act on investment incentives), as amended, and Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended /German press 298/ - 3rd reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček and rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is the Economic Committee, Member Vojtěch Munzar, take the position of the rapporteur's chair. The amendments are set out in the Parliamentary Press 298/3, which was delivered on 18 April 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered as the House Press 298/4. I am now asking the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? You do. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, the amendment tabled by the Act on Investment Incentives and the related part of the Employment Act has already been presented in detail at first and second reading. Let me therefore just briefly comment on the amendments tabled at second reading. Nevertheless, allow me to emphasise the importance of this law, because we are actually convinced that the Act on investment incentives makes sense, but in a completely different form than it has been before. It should be kept in mind that the original proposal, respectively, still applies. the original regime, and the new one puts new investors in such a position that only those who are proven to put resources in research, development, innovation, and value added can ask for any support. This, we believe, should be the goal of our entire economy, our economy. That means to introduce you now -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u3	I'm gonna ask you to calm down! The Chamber of Deputies, because we cannot hear the Minister again. I ask for peace of mind to hear what the Minister has to say. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u4	Thank you. Amendments to the Economic Committee. By his resolution of 20 March 2019, the Chamber of Deputies recommended that the draft law be discussed and approved as amended by four amendments and one legislative technical amendment. These are mostly proposals which have a particularly precise character. We see these proposals as appropriate and acceptable. As far as the proposal for explicit introduction of the Chamber of Commerce into the text of the law is concerned, I would just like to state that not only the Chamber of Commerce but also other employers' organisations are involved in consultations in the preparation of government materials that affect them. Now, Mr Munzar's amendment to repeal the Investment Incentives Act. This is a proposal which repeals the entire Investment Incentives Act, stating that this will allow discussion of the advantages and new concepts of investment incentives. In the case of our proposed amendment, really complex preparation and very professional debate with the public in the context of research, development, with all business associations, institutions, the Chamber of Commerce etc. were preceded. The discussion lasted two years and it is definitely not a quick proposal, but I can assure you that all available solutions have been considered by us, including all benefits, plus and minus. However, it must be said that we agree that, in the current situation where our country's economy is at its peak, or at least we are in good shape, the system of investment incentives must be substantially reduced, that is true, and targeting needs to be changed. We fully agree with that. At the same time, we must realise that it is not possible to do this forcefully, by stopping everything immediately, because by abolishing the investment incentive system, we would undoubtedly deprive ourselves of the stimulus of the very interesting companies that are ready to invest in research into development, companies that are able to bring added value, and by doing so we are actually reducing their number in a fundamental way, but we are not saying definitely not. So we consider this necessary instrument to be maintained, but not in the current form, so that we can flexibly influence the adjustment of these incentives at government level. For the next one. Mr Munzar's amendment to limiting investment incentives, and that only for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, at first glance, gives its meaning. I would only like to say some numbers here, such that during the last reference period, i.e. in 2018, it was 19 percent of the beneficiaries of small and medium-sized enterprises. When we look in general at what the investment activity of large and small firms looks like, it does not differ completely from one another. I'm just going to add to what these numbers are in terms of how big the investment must be. It's just a reminder, but I think it's important. The current situation is still so that it applies only to those who put CZK 100 million and above into the investment. When it comes to affected regions, it is CZK 50 million and above, the investment. And the new proposal we're putting forward is reducing it to half. In other words, it is for companies in all regions of 50 million and above and in those affected 25 million crowns and above. This means they are not only large companies, they are medium-sized companies, mostly smaller companies. The 25 million crowns are no longer unattainable. But more importantly, it is that for small and medium-sized companies they are prepared and prepared and exist, and we are now and continuously implementing them, and now I am speaking here as a person who has represented small and medium-sized companies for many years, a number of other instruments that may be more comfortable for them, faster and more timely. Let me give you an example. The Trend program, which distributes the Technology Agency - TAČR, can be used. We recently approved another relatively high sum for eight years from the research, development and innovation budget - CZK 6 billion from state resources for the Country for Future programme, ideally for small companies that want to make use of interesting investments related to innovation. There are OPPIK programmes, which can also be used elegantly for investment activities and investment support for small and medium-sized companies. There are a number of agricultural programmes within the agricultural department. And, of course, there are a number of other programmes called. Tachrovsky, or technological agencies, in the sense that the smaller company cooperates with, for example, a university or research institute. What I really mean is that small and medium-sized firms today have enough tools to support their investment, and even at a higher level and more interesting than if they had received support for this character. That's what it's important to say. What's even more interesting is that the programs are not fully used. For example, the TACR is overhanging today's supply than demand. So it's not true that small medium-sized firms can't reach investment incentives. For this reason, we believe that leaving the regime, as we have proposed, to half the amount, that is, once again, 50 and 25 million, is meaningful in this case. I would also like to comment on Mr Juříček's amendment, under which this last proposal complements the deadline for discussing the application for an investment incentive by the Government for three months in the draft amendment. According to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, this proposal is acceptable after discussions. So the economic committee, which was designated as a guarantee committee, discussed the proposals submitted on 2 May this year and the vote procedure recommended by the guarantee committee. I fully agree with the positions of the guarantee committee on the amendments on which the guarantee committee has taken its position. On Mr Munzar's amendment to restricting the system of investment incentives to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the Guarantee Committee did not accept the position, but, in the light of the reasons I have tried to state, the Ministry of Industry and Trade does not recommend the adoption of this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, from this point of view, to consider your positions in voting on the amendments and to support the bill tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u5	Now I'm opening... Well, I'll give you as... It is not at third reading that the rapporteur is speaking before the debate is opened, so I am now opening up a debate where you can, of course, sign up and have priority rights. So if you want to get off after that, you'll be the first, either way. So I am opening the debate and the first with priority rights is the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, and Mr Václav Klaus will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the opening speech to the Minister. I've divided my speech, or I'm going to divide it into, say, the political opinion I'm going to say at the end, and the factual one that I, as rapporteur, had at first reading. I, colleagues, apologize for hearing this for the second time, but given the exchange at the post of Minister of Industry and Trade, I would like to hear some of the comments that I had here at all on the process of creating this law, the Minister. The main point that I had here at first reading, which I will repeat, is that it is unclear and ambiguous from the outset that the amendment is indeed the optimal option and also the only and correct option, because the alternative of the cancellation of incentives has not been evaluated within the framework of the RIA, which has been pointed out by the Ministry of Finance in its comments quite rightly. You know I don't often praise the Treasury, and I often disagree with it, but since the Secretary isn't here, at least remotely. Thank you for the comments from the Ministry of Finance. They are just pointing out that the option of abolishing investment incentives has not been evaluated. This shows the real motivation of the petitioners and that is the maintenance of this legal grant title at all costs and the possibility of deciding on advantages for selected companies. That's all it is. These advantages are worthwhile when we speak in numbers, roughly three billion crowns a year, which go directly or indirectly from taxpayers' pockets. And we're talking about a time when the pace of economic growth is decreasing and the government is looking for resources to spend. I recommend to the Minister to familiarise himself with the comments of the Ministry of Finance, which were essential at first, and then, let's say, by some direction, fate turned into a recommendation. In these, economic doubts about the benefits of this law are expressed. I would like to quote these comments: "The Ministry of Finance is of the opinion that the proposal for a change in the system of granting investment incentives or amending the law must be preceded by a thorough analysis of the current functioning of the system, in particular by an assessment of its benefits and costs, incentive effect, necessity and so on, and only then by specific objectives to be achieved, and in the final step in what appropriate form and how they can be achieved." Another quote: "In view of the difficultly adjustable criteria of higher added value, a fundamental question should be answered," says the Ministry of Finance, "whether this form of the Investment Incentives Act is at all suitable for this type of support and supported projects. The material itself contributes to doubts, for example, by claiming that the income tax discount, which is the main investment incentive, is not sufficiently incentive for the centres, or by stating that the fundamental problem of investors is, among other things, a lack of skilled labour, which will make the expected influx of targeted investments even worse." The President of the Legislative Council of the Government has added to this position and, in turn, I would like to quote: "As a solution, the current situation, which is rejected for a number of factual reasons and proposed. They thus ignore the possible solution in relation to the achievement of the objectives. We therefore ask for such a significant amendment to have an impact on the business environment and public budgets to extend or explain why other variants have not been considered.' Well, as the Ministry of Industry and Trade came up with this, the answer is in the explanatory note that the round tables agreed on it. So that's a really good, excellent reason. So this law is presented to us because the representatives of those beneficiaries who take advantage of the incentives have agreed with the one who provides the incentives, that they want them further. Well, that's a reason to bring this law forward. Since the Minister is also a vice prime minister for the economy, I believe that the economic doubts expressed by the Ministry of Finance and the President of the Legislative Council of the Government will not be taken lightly and will not continue to blindly enforce such an imperfect law. This was rather a technical matter as rapporteur. And now I come to the political opinion and to the justification of the amendments that we have tabled here. Indeed, investment incentives are just another subsidy title which, by its very nature, creates an unfair competitive environment and a crooked market. They, on the one hand, confer an advantage on those who receive an incentive over those who do not. The beneficiaries of the incentives, with the support of the State, can be used de facto by other entrepreneurs and firms in the region, especially those small and medium-sized ones who do not have that advantage, but will de facto pay for it to the large ones. I must say that we agreed with the government that the existing incentive model is overcome, but we do not agree that the Ministry of Industry and Trade does not want to give up on the possibility of granting advantages. That's what the law is all about. It's that simple. The whole preparation shows an effort to maintain this grant title at all costs despite economic doubts, not assessing economic impacts, inappropriately set criteria. And this fun will cost taxpayers three billion crowns a year. The competitive advantage in the Czech Republic should be something other than a grant title or a number of grant titles that the Minister has named here. It should be a liberal environment, it should be low taxes, reduced taxes, friendly business environment, low levels of regulation, efficient government and high-quality infrastructure. This would help everyone, not only the chosen ones, whom the Ministry of Industry and Trade will choose, or the government. On the contrary, we have been drifting away from the liberal environment for the last few years...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u7	I'm gonna ask you to calm down one more time. And who is discussing something other than the point under discussion, please in the foyer. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u8	Thank you, Mr President. The three billion crowns are really important. But as I was saying, we've been drifting away from the liberal environment for the past few years. And what the minister said here at the beginning in his speech, and he listed what subsidy titles the government has prepared for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, what's different from turning the market economy into a subsidy economy in our country. And the money, the subsidies, first the government has to take away from somebody so they can give it to somebody. This means that I am not dazzled by the figures of how many grant titles are prepared, because every grant title perverts the market, because then entrepreneurs do not compete with their skill to keep themselves on the market and offer some activity to our citizens, but only compete with how skilled they are in negotiating at ministries to obtain various subsidies. Therefore, investment incentives as one of the grant titles are a discriminatory tool for me, because most entrepreneurs certainly do not touch incentives. In the past, more than 90 percent of investment incentives were granted only to large companies. And the law itself, or the amendment, does not focus decisively on the outcome, such as the placing of a product on the market or the development of a specific technology, but only on the activity. And this is so typical of state administration regardless of the policy that is shown by the activities. And from that, there are obvious criteria, such as wage orientation. It is alleged to be aid to enterprises with higher added value. For example, there is a criterion of 80 per cent of employees with an above-average salary. If we look at the draft government regulation, then only on 1 December. And the state will pay this salary increase with this investment incentive to the company de facto. At a time of lack of qualified workers - because we are increasing the pressure to employ more qualified workers by this amendment - these problems will get worse in a time of lack of qualified workers. The negative effect will therefore be to drain the workforce from the unsupported enterprises in favour of the subsidised undertaking. For these reasons, I have just proposed repealing the Act as a whole for the ODS Club. I understand that the YES movement, perhaps social democracy, will not agree with us on this. But think of this as an opportunity to make the necessary economic analyses and not only decide on the basis of results at round tables with those who are beneficiaries of these benefits and, of course, do not want to give up these benefits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u9	I will ask you once more to be calm so that the Member can speak calmly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u10	Since this proposal does not have to receive your support, we have come up with the second proposal that the Minister has mentioned, and that is, say, a compromise proposal to limit investment incentives only for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Minister said that 19 percent of the total aid for small and medium-sized enterprises was supported in 2018. I'd like to rephrase that. We need to look at it from a little longer term than the one-year horizon. And when we look at the last five years, only 6 percent of the total amount of investment incentive support have received only 6 percent of SMEs. Thus, only less than 10 per cent of small and medium-sized enterprises have been supported throughout the operation of the investment incentives. So it can be seen that this instrument is really focused only on supporting the big ones. So it's a significant discrepancy for the big ones at the expense of the little ones. I was interested in the attitude of the new Minister of Industry and Trade, who represented small and medium-sized enterprises in the Association of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. But I am a little disappointed that he is rejecting this amendment. To sum up, it is really just an effort for me to maintain this grant title at all costs, despite economic doubts and not assessing the economic impact. It will cost taxpayers three billion crowns a year. Finally, allow me to read legislative technical amendments to one of my amendments. It is an adaptation of point C2, which reads: point C2 reads, Amendment point 16 reads in Section 3 paragraph. The first sentence of the first sentence shall be followed by a comma and words which are small or medium-sized enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u11	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček will speak with a point of fact and will be prepared with priority rights by the Minister. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u12	Thank you very much. I want to follow up on my colleague Munzar and support him in his proposal to abolish the entire law. I think that's the right move. Investment incentives as well as subsidies and EET is another distortion of the business environment and creating space for unfair competition. Investment incentives have become a money supply in the Czech Republic from small and medium-sized enterprises that cannot reach them and have to pay taxes, so they have become a money supply for the richest corporations in the world, which often have a larger turnover than the state budget of the Czech Republic, and yet receive financial and other support at the expense of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Investment incentives complicate our businessmen's lives, sucking up labour shortages. How is our small and medium-sized businessman supposed to compete in quotes and get employees when we have a huge big corporation that still gets a grant from his money to his job? This is an entirely unfair business environment that will lead to this, and it leads to the conversation of the structure of the Czech economy, which is built on large corporations. We often discuss the problem of the flow of dividends from the Czech economy abroad in the hundreds of billions of crowns. If we want to at least start solving this problem, then we must also support our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs so that they will one day become the rich corporations that are going to enter into business on the world markets and receive dividends from them for the Czech economy. So let's not encourage the distortion of our economy. Let us try to change the structure of the Czech economy so that the backbone of our economy becomes small and small entrepreneurs, which may one day become rich large corporations, and let us not help foreign wealthy corporations at the expense of our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u13	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u14	Thank you. Allow me, from the end, to respond to Mr Skopeček's words. He's right. It is indeed a money line, an incredible money line that was introduced here in the 1990s. It was not introduced by these governments. And that's how it works here to this day. That is why we want to change this, which is why we want to stop those flows, and that is why we only want to focus on a highly limited group of entrepreneurs who would have a chance to achieve this, and that is the one that supports research, development and innovation, because that is what the whole debate is about. Everyone loves to discuss how to support our research. We are constantly hearing that 1.8 percent of total investment in research and development is not enough. And I agree with that. We also said 2.5 percent in the innovation strategy. And we're constantly hearing how we're going to achieve that 2.5 percent. 2,5 percent to just understand each other, which would really be a European over-the-counter, and I believe that in 2025 we have a chance to achieve this, so this 2,5 percent is so-called total expenditure on research and development, that is, it is both a state, or budgetary resources, and it is the sources of entrepreneurs, which are sixty-seven percent. In fact, if we want to achieve 2.5 percent, I believe that the vast majority of us agree that simply R &amp; D spending is the basis of a healthy and future value-added economy, then we must motivate the private sector there. I just can't do it without it. And now it's just a question of how to motivate him. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I agree with the liberal vision of the world that the primary motivation is to have a good business environment here, predictable, to have a good tax and readable regime here, to simply say, enjoy the business. And that, of course, is the elemental stimulus to be ready to invest and put resources in innovation. Unfortunately, this is not always enough, because when we look at the structure of those who put resources into innovation, there are very often a number of large companies, multinational companies, and we simply have to motivate them in a reasonable way. On the contrary, it is encouraging us to achieve higher added value just through research and development. So please let's not overtake this, it would be a shame. And yet I dare to argue over the word "the next grant title" several times. It's not a grant title. When we look at the structure of investment incentives, they are not about subsidies, but they are based on an overwhelming majority on an incentive system that actually reduces the tax base. That is, on the contrary - from the fact that subsidies have been given here in the past, they retreat and go to the regime: prove the economic result, show that you can manage well, and from that you can afford to give a higher tax incentive. It's just that the tax is going to go down. So these are indirect - indirect - tax incentives. [[Huge noise in the hall.]] And I'm still arguing with the last thing, with the numbers. I reported that in 2018 it was 19 percent of small and medium-sized companies. Mr Munzar has added it up in the last five years. I wanted to show that the trend has just turned in favour of small and medium-sized in recent years. And if we go halfway around today, that means 100 million to 50 and 50 to 25, you can mathematically calculate, and it's pretty clear that this is going to multiply. I can't tell if it's going to be 40 percent, 30, maybe 50, but it's obvious that just by going halfway, we're going to push it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u15	Now, with a factual remark, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u16	Thank you. He's just narrowing it down to science and research. By the way, he said that small and medium-sized enterprises have enough other tools to support them, so they might not be targeted. So I would like to say that even the technological centres that this amendment is talking about can be supported from the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, so they also have another label. But that's not the point. I wouldn't just narrow it down to science and research. This is an incorrect interpretation of this amendment of the law, because apart from technological centres, this proposal also assumes support for the so-called Shared Services Centre. And don't be mad at me, the shared services centers in my opinion certainly do not contribute to science and research in this way. So please, let's not narrow this law down, let's not pick just one type of supported stock out of it, and let's not put the argument on it, but let's take it really the way this proposal is designed. That's the first thing. Second thing-- but he's an indirect grant title. The minister said it here. Instead of receiving direct funds and direct subsidies, these subsidies are indirectly received from taxpayers by not paying such taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u17	We will now return to the general debate as such. That is where we are, so I will now ask Mr Václav Klaus to speak and Mr Marian Jurečka will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u18	That's how you summoned me, just when Markéta Vondroušová has a 5:5 breakball, so I expected to get to the discussion sooner. But now, seriously, to investment incentives. On Tuesday, there was a whole day of funding to one company. Some of the MPs almost beat their heads against the counter like they were excited. Now it's a much calmer atmosphere, but at the core it's the same thing. Investment incentives are subsidies, investment incentives are grants for designated candidates. Of course, it's logical when schools are subsidized or someone else is subsidized, so it makes sense, but address grants are wrong. It has been said several times that it is a transfer of money between small businesses to large businesses. That, of course, is true. Then I will say what I think small businesses would most welcome. You know, those normal businesses in the Republic, they don't want subsidies at the heart, they want the state to give them a little peace so they have lower taxes, so they have easier taxes, so that the state treats them decently, doesn't see dirty suspects in them, but they see people who have taken their own destiny into their own hands and employ someone else. Investment incentives destroy Czech companies, because very often it is so that a large company receives a subsidy of a million crowns per worker per year in some area where there is no unemployment at all, and it drains the market to those Czech companies. That is why we will support Mr Munzar's proposals. The first with pleasure, investment incentives are to be abolished as a whole. The other one's a little embarrassed, because I don't have the illusion that even if it's limited in size, the big companies that have made a daughter's little business will eventually be the investment incentive for those ministries who are supposed to get it, but so be it. As far as the Minister is concerned. If you want to support research, then support research, let the Ministry of Education work, let your technological and grant agencies work and don't install it in the Industrial Act. So that's my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u19	Now I'll read two apologies. Mrs Karla Maříková from 14.00 to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Martin Kupka from 13.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. And now I will ask another in the order - Mr Marian Jurečka - to speak in the debate and then Mr Pavel Juříček will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u20	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Minister, dear colleagues, fellow Members, let me comment on this bill before voting at third reading. I was critical of him also in the first, second reading, in the discussion of the economic committee, because, at first sight, the law is rational and can be agreed with him - we want to say clearly in the Czech Republic if the state is giving a certain incentive, an investment incentive, so that it is for the highest added value, so this part of the law, which started to be prepared during the previous government, has a ratio. I agree, and I support this part. But, therefore, the fundamental problem that I would like to draw the attention of Members, but also of the public, is the question of what principle new investment incentives will actually be approved by now. [[Noise in the hall.]] So far, it has been so that if the company that had this incentive and this form of interest, if it fulfilled all the legal conditions, only the formal signature of the Minister of Industry and Trade was granted. That means all the major things were defined by the law. You will, applicant, or you won't. There's no controversy about it. Then there was a certain limit that over CZK 500 million, so-called strategic investment, was still decided by the government. We had a decision like this in the government during our time. So over half a billion, the government actually ruled on it. Today, those borders are decreasing here, which is okay on the one hand, going to that level of CZK 50 million out of 100 and in those disadvantaged areas up to 25. Perhaps my question about the Minister, why maybe this line, why the border isn't even lower, I haven't found anywhere in the explanatory report how the Ministry of Industry and Trade came to that border. And please, nicely, I draw attention to one important thing that came to the bill in the very final, before it was approved by the government, and that is that if all the conditions of the applicant comply with the law, such an investment incentive, even a small one, will come to the government's meeting and there the government will decide whether to grant the investment incentive to the person who fulfilled all the conditions of the law. That's something that just doesn't make sense to me. Here, it's argued that the reduction in the limit is in favour of small and medium-sized companies, but why should the government still have it or that? And I want to point out here that, from my point of view, this may also be a potential form of conflict of interest, the fact that, for example, the Prime Minister is sitting in that government, who, in his own way, can decide and influence whether a potentially possible competitor in the various fields where Agrofert is in business can ultimately obtain a government incentive. I think it's unsystemic. I don't understand why the Ministry of Industry and Trade is giving up on this, why the original principle doesn't apply, and I'm pointing out to my colleagues and colleagues here that this is something that we don't normally have in legislation, and we're going to move the limit in a significant way. I personally can't agree with that. So maybe I'd ask the Minister to try to explain why the Ministry of Industry and Trade, even in his original proposal - and I understand that it was before his arrival - why he finally agreed to it, what the arguments were for bringing this decision to government level and how the Ministry of Industry and Trade came to those limits, why it is CZK 50 or 25 million, why it cannot be to an even lower value. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u21	Next in the debate... are you applying, Minister, with priority rights? Yes. Minister Karel Havlíček with priority rights and Mr Pavel Juříček will be prepared. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u22	Thank you. I will be very, very quick to answer Mr Jurečka directly. The debate was very difficult even at the level of the government. And now I don't want to say alibis that I wasn't there at the time, but of course I have to take responsibility for it. In fact, it was also very much considered that there would be no real investment incentives at all. That is true, because we repeatedly say one thing - the current ones are outdone, we are at the top of the economic cycle, and indeed there was a very serious debate that would completely abolish investment incentives. The Ministry of Industry and Trade was not for this. We just argued that we need to support higher added value, we need to support companies that are able to invest in research and development, and that we would lose the possibility of at least the units of companies - the units of companies, please, are not hundreds and probably no more tens, it is now - to get into the game yet. So in the end, it was a compromise proposal in some way in the sense that the Ministry of Industry and Trade would prepare it, submit it, and eventually the government would still have the seal to decide if necessary. And one last thing only to Mr Klaus. It sounds logical - leave research and development only at school and at all the institutions that support it somehow do. But it is just 70 percent of the expenditure on research and development that comes from the industrial sphere. And the industrial sphere stretches to some extent the university sphere and the research-development sphere. It's all over the world. If we abdicate that we will not support the industrial sphere in terms of supporting research and development, we will significantly influence the research and university sphere as well. It's all over the world. And on the contrary, we should be trying to make the private one pull even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u23	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Marian Jurečka. One moment, Mr. Ambassador, because factual remarks take precedence, so please be patient. [[Jurassic]] Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared for another factual one. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u24	Thank you. I'm just being factual. Thank you very much to the Minister for responding in this way not only to me but also to other colleagues in the debate. It is far from customary for the ministers of this government to correct the comments of our Members here in the debate. But maybe I'll ask for a reaction from the 50 million crowns and 25 million crowns that didn't fall here. And I want to point out here really the whole House and the public that the discussion of the economic committee, but also in the official commentary materials of the Confederation of Industry and Transport, points out in a significant way the non-standard thing, the transfer of the competences, the approval of the government. It's well-founded why they see certain risks in it. This union is therefore significant. Radek Špicar was present at the meeting of the Economic Committee, where he explained those concerns very well, and I think it is simply not okay, and I ask the House to consider whether, in such a form, to approve the proposal in its final form.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u25	There. Just a minute. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, Minister, a moment. So now, first of all, with the factual remark of Mr. Václav Klaus, then with the right of priority... [[Member of the Fiala prefers.]] In that case, the chairman of the SPD Club withdraws his priority rights, then the Minister will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u26	In fact, I would like to respond to the Minister. So you want the private sphere to become more involved in science and research, and that's why you're letting the state and the government do it. That doesn't make sense. Each slightly larger private company makes science, research and progress. No invention has ever been invented by the government in the world. She only invents the subsidies. That's what we're criticizing, and you're defending here. That's the contradiction we have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u27	Well, thank you. Now, therefore, the Minister with priority rights and Mr Juříček will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u28	Thank you. Stimulus to give resources to education, research, development, they're everywhere in the world. There's really nothing special about that. And it's just a question of how it's done. I repeat, we do not support the grant title as it was set here in the past, we support motivational, i.e. come in, make an economic result, and only if you make it, you have the opportunity to subtract something. And that's the benefit. Among other things, they are quite common in the world and perhaps even the most popular so-called. tax write-offs, i.e. tax deductions to support research and development. On this is built the whole research and development in Austria, Germany, all other countries. So with this rhetoric, Mr Member, we could essentially say that we will not support at all research and development in the sense of tax deductions. And what the whole of Europe is doing and, frankly, what they're doing in Japan, what they're doing in Korea, what they're doing in Israel, and they're putting their miracle out there, so we would basically be completely uncompetitive about it. So it's just this. And to Mr Jurečka, how we came to the 100 miles. respectively. 50 million, that was pretty precise. So it was originally 100 miles. and 50 miles. in the affected regions, now it's actually going to half, or 50 miles. and 25 miles. in the affected regions, with the fact that if we went even lower, i.e. For example, for 10 - 15 million, it would start to dissipate terribly, these applications would start to increase, and we would actually make it a relatively universal tool, and that was not an effort. Indeed, it is an attempt to pull out and select very interesting companies that have decided to support development, and to benefit those indirectly in tax terms, or by deduction from taxes. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u29	So now, with a factual remark, Mr Ivo Vondrák. One point of fact so far. Your two minutes, then. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u30	I'll just fill in the minister's response to Mr. Václav Klaus. It's true. Even countries like the United States support businesses, let them be small, medium, large. It means it's a mistake to think that research, development is a matter only of the academic sphere. On the contrary, I think that these means serve to link these things together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u31	Thank you. And now another point of fact came to my attention - Mr Ondřej Benešík. So it's your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. There is research of basic and research applied and often the very company, applied, builds on the results of the basic, which is often sponsored by the state or public sphere. But the results wouldn't often be because they're just disadvantageous at the beginning. I am not saying that this is always the case, but it is a system that is applied in the developed states of the world. So please, let's make a distinction. Indeed, sometimes it is that this commercially interesting result can be achieved partly with the help of the results that are sponsored by the public sphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u33	Thank you. And now I will ask for Mr Pavel Juříček's speech and Mr Radim Fiala will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, I must say that there is no enlightened government in the world that does not have a tool to support smart ideas and how to support smart companies that are just putting money into research, development, innovation, labs. I think that what the government has now prepared is finally something that is selective, which is smart and that promotes smart things. And by doing business around the world almost already, so does China, doing it Japan, China even pays the engineers, paying the labs, but not getting tax breaks on the number of employees, that's some kind of past that stays in your head, that's not how it is anymore. The United States has the same thing. Now Brazil is trying to copy even our preliminary investment law, because even Brazil now understands that it wants to go the way of innovation and new ideas. I don't understand this discussion, and it seems that some of you still don't want to hear that it's really for smart ideas and things that are gonna push us up. And all I want to do is add that I put an amendment under number 2459 so that the government can be held accountable again to the very entrepreneurs, because smart ideas are spreading very quickly in today's world. So that the government decides within three months whether or not to give the incentive, which is directed precisely for the smart ideas and for the innovations. I want to convince the entire House not to be frozen and stuck with axes in the stump, that we will not support things that have a head and a heel. After all, it will be very difficult to decide what the quality level of the idea is. That's right. That's right. But it's not flat, and it's up to the government's decision to recognize smart things. But that's how it is in the world. Oh, my proboha, only smart people can recognize smart ideas. And I think that at the Minister's level, we have a guarantee, because that's the person who's spent his whole life doing things in development and pushing things all their lives to really have added value. So I don't understand much of this discussion, and please be smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u35	Mr Radim Fiala, President of the SPD, is now with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words on investment incentives. Of course, we have been doing this on the Economic Committee for a long time. I am extremely glad that we also opened the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, because it is about time. So let's say what was the time of the past and what was actually going on. Investment incentives, according to some general formula, received - and we have heard it here from the statistics of fellow Members - the largest companies. The small and medium ones over the last five years were only 6 percent, which is a horrible number. It is evident that the largest capital here in the Czech Republic, which mostly acquired the incentives, was foreign capital from foreign countries. I've seen several contracts. Those contracts said that if they were getting funds to employ employees, they were no longer there for the employment of Czech employees, but those contracts already included employees from the European Union. And mostly the situation, the whole process, looked like a multinational corporation came along, created some low-value company, employed Romanians and Bulhar, who had their entire amount or most of the amount that they didn't live here, sent to Romania and Bulgaria, and of course there was a great added value not for us, but for that multinational corporation, which then drew the entire profit on dividends and profits, optimizations, from the Czech Republic out and taxed elsewhere. Thus, the Czech Republic had absolutely nothing to do with it. Unfortunately, we have often supported such companies in the past, and we are still in a situation where we do not actually have unemployment, i.e. those companies are still downloading people who could work here for Czech companies. So the whole process ended up being that the Czech Republic didn't have any of it financially. [[13.00 hours]] I must agree with the Minister that it is necessary to support research and development. I am also in favour of the investment conditions being for small and medium-sized Czech companies, which here do not draw the profits that do not need to give minimum wages and small wages to get as much profits as possible on dividends and profits from the Czech Republic out. So we are in favour of supporting research and development, they are connected vessels, but if the investment conditions, then those small and medium-sized Czech companies that definitely need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u37	Thank you. And now, with Mr Pavel Juříček's factual remark, and also in the general debate, Mr Válek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u38	Just maybe one more piece of information for all of you. You know, smart ideas are born in the minds of individuals, but not in whether it's a small, medium or large firm. This is about the creativity of a few individuals, on which the business plan will then be built. Just for the record, Germany has small and medium-sized companies rated at 2,000 employees, so it's not that the number we're putting here in the Czech Republic today, we're evaluating small and medium-sized companies at 250 employees. I can tell you that there are virtually no boundaries around the world anymore, because everyone understood that the idea is created in the minds of real individuals and only a group develops it. Let's forget about the categorization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u39	Thanks for keeping time, too. Good afternoon and now for the general debate, Mr Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u40	Thank you. I wouldn't have thought I'd have anything to say about investment incentives in the morning. But I was confused by the discussion where they put on a bunch of investment incentives and grants, and in the 30 years I've been doing research, I thought that everyone was something completely different. For me, the top of science is the Nobel Prize, so I was trying to find some employee of some firm who got the Nobelův Prize. I found a lot of employees from different universities and research centers, and somehow I didn't find the employee of the firm, but I believe that the research is mainly done in companies. I also thought that private companies in America were subsidizing research at the Massachusetts Institute, not the other way around. But maybe I'm wrong. I don't know the situation that well. And I was convinced that the top research in the United States was Harvard University and its research center, as well as in Japan, Tsukuba University and its research center, where they developed the first proton device, for example, and not that it was a company. I understand that R &amp; D is also being done in companies, and that is why they are grants, and that is why anybody can compete for those grants on the basis of any proposal, any project, any idea, and then an independent expert committee, ideally anonymous, Czech and foreign, the more anonymous and the more independent, they assess it. And if the agency is good, serious, solid, you can't wink at the assessment. There were agencies in the Czech Republic, where it worked that way and it blew, and then the agencies ended, often it was the supervisory agencies, today the situation, for God's sake, is much better. When I take it very, very far-fetched and lay, from the point of view of the hospital, an urgent income is a place where they need an investment incentive, because the purgatory is there to work for doctors, for nurses, it's awful hard work, and so I'm looking for various investment incentives for the doctor to be on that urgent income, I'm trying to equip him as best I can, I'm trying to give him the most personal assessment I can. And that's how I see an investment incentive for my hospital facility to work, in this case, the state. I understand that there are companies that I want to stimulate in some way to do activities in some places where it wouldn't work otherwise, and that's how I perceive an investment incentive. And then I have something completely different, a number of doctors, nurses, various employees working in the hospital, who have the clever ideas that Mr Juříček here has been talking about through the President. And these people want to implement this clever idea in some way, whether themselves as part of the team that they create, the procedures are different, and all of you who either move or do research themselves or evaluate them, know them, and come up with the idea and absolutely on the same terms, really under exactly the same conditions, regardless of whether it's a professor or an early assistant, whether it's a nurse or a researcher forged by several grants, submit some committee capable of assessing professionally whether this idea is a good idea or not. And I'm going to create a certain amount of money that I'm going to use on these ideas, and then, based on as much open as possible, as objective and as much as possible fair competition, I'm going to divide the money, and then they're going to do, let's call it research and science, whatever it's applied research, whatever it's basic research, whatever the combination and definition of the boundaries of the research. It is an eternal pain with which various agencies argue with the Academy of Sciences, and after all we with the TA CR. And all those who are in it know this very well and we never got to any serious agreement, because often basic research, or theoretical research, if you want, ends with filing a patent and often applied research doesn't end with filing a patent because it turns out it was a blind path, which doesn't have to be bad at all, because it showed others not this way. Even the negative result of research may not be bad. Of course, something else is innovation, where I simply want to innovate and create a product, a product, and I want to somehow get to create this product, to introduce this product, a typical example of health care in the Czech Republic is ELLA, which supplies medical products to the whole world and which in this way cooperates with a number of universities and develops some materials in the framework of basic research. For example, we are a country that developed biodegradable material, it is absolutely unique material throughout the world, and then on the basis of applied research through TA CR, ELLA obtained a grant to introduce this product into production, started to produce it, because at the beginning it was essentially not clear whether this product could be or could not be applicable on the market. It was a leap into the dark, after a while it turned out to be very usable, advantageous, so the company has much bigger taxes and then makes much more money to the state and this certainly came back to the state. But I think that confusing investments that are in something concrete that I want to support, whether the state, whether a private company, anyone, with the competence of a grant on scientific projects, is not happy, and I hope and believe that the TA CR is primarily a grant agency where independent experts evaluate the quality of grants, and that it is not an investment or incentive agency that makes incentives for selected projects for something that decides to become. I don't think I'd be happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u41	Thank you. The Minister is now reporting, then Mr Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u42	Thank you for your comments. Maybe I'll just explain it real quick. Of course, the Czech Republic is a grant agency. I only used it here in the sense that we discussed that smaller and medium-sized companies would have a worse position than large companies. And I said, not only does the limit go down to half and the smaller companies get into it, but also that the smaller and medium-sized firms have far more elegant means of downloading research money. For example, I mentioned the TA CR, where really, when collaborating with different universities and universities and possibly research centres, it is possible to acquire a means of investment in support of research. And it's the small resources in the order of millions of crowns. So we're playing for the GAP between the millions of crowns and the 25 million crowns and more. And I was just declaring that the smaller firms in this have even more resources than they're capable of exhausting. What the honourable Member has said here makes sense to some extent only provided that I am based on the fact that separate industry research and separate research are carried out by the university and research organisation. But that's not the case at all. For concreteization: 90 billion. CZK goes annually to research, development and innovation, with approximately 55 billion. The crown is coming from the private sphere. And the private sphere doesn't just give resources in terms of doing so-called research, half of those resources go by the leverage effect, which means, it goes in favour of universities and research centers. This means, if we approve this law today, we give green light to all industrial firms, or, say, business entities, it may not just be industrial, which will continue to manage the funds for the benefit of universities and research centres, because they are engaged in contractual research there. And so it is everywhere in the world. And everywhere in the world, even in the America you mentioned, they're looking for tools to further motivate the private sector to work with the research sector, because it's a win-win for both sides. The research sector, and the university, of course, has some educational programs, it has more educated students, it has its research results, and then the business sector, of course, gets the results. So that's actually what this whole discussion is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u43	Thank you. Mr Pávek is now reporting with a point of fact. Before she reaches the microphone, Mrs Levová apologizes to us after 2:00 p.m. until the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And I ask my colleagues to stay calm!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would only repeatedly address the Minister's question of why he keeps that decisive word at the end of the government, especially for such small sums. That was a question he hasn't answered yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u45	Thank you. It is now Mr Lipavský's turn if the Minister does not wish to exercise the right of priority. The Minister will exercise priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u46	I don't want to prolong it so I won't delay you, but it was a direct question. I said there was a discussion between the government and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It was about the fact that there would be no investment incentives at all. The Ministry of Industry wanted to maintain investment incentives, however, with the aim of completely minimizing their actual final number, so it still has to pass through the government. That means, it's going to be the Ministry's submission, and the government's gonna approve it in the finals. Among other things, this is how many other and other items are approved, which are significantly lower in character than 25 million or more. So I personally think that if it's 25 million or 50 million in other regions and more, that it's already a matter that the government should go through because the government should say so. I say repeatedly, we approve significantly smaller amounts there, and I don't see anything so extraordinary about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u47	Thank you. And now, therefore, Mr Lipavský, then Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u48	Hello. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will allow myself to return briefly to what has been said a little bit back in this debate that the state has never invented anything. So, of course, the state never invented anything, it's invented by scientists, and they're largely paid from the state. It's primary research. And in phase two, when primary research is about to go into some kind of applied business, that's what the private business does. In the last 30 years in the Czech Republic, we have just seen that we are losing the most of our ability to connect these two parts. So transferring know-how to practice is what is necessary, and the state should have the tools to deal with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Benešík, Mr Benešík, is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u50	I was just adding, like, a classic investment by the state through the army was an investment in the Internet. It was developed for the purposes of the U.S. Army, and today it's probably millions of businesses that are packed for it. I don't know if the state would invest in this kind of technology if someone else invented it. They're just ifs. Anyway, let us remember that the basic research that the state finances has great potential and is very important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u51	Thank you. And now, therefore, Mr Ferjenčík, who has applied from his post. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to thank the Minister first of all for answering questions in the debate. I very much welcome it, and I think it would be great if it were done with all the laws. And I wanted to ask you why there's a customer support center in that law, if there's any justification, because we've been arguing with colleagues about it, whether it makes sense or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u53	Thank you. The Minister will answer, so please, Minister. Otherwise, I don't have any more applications at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u54	To be perfectly honest, I don't know. When we put it in there, we evaluated it there, so we didn't think that this was just supposed to be some sort of fundamental barrier and that it would prevent anything, but I don't want to be smart here right now to say that it has some kind of genius subtext. I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u55	Thank you. With a factual point by the rapporteur, then by Mrs Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u56	Thank you. I would like to follow up on Mr Ferjenčík. I also noticed this immediately, which is why I handed over the amendment through the Economic Committee, which you will find under the designation A1. It is precisely removing customer support centres from those types of investment projects. However, of course, this is where the debate narrowed down, and I pointed it out, only to science, research and innovation. We can continue to talk about the technology centers, but not about the service sharing centers at all. I think this debate really only flattens on the excerpt of one part of the law. Technological centres are not the only type of investment aid this amendment is aiming at. That's what I wanted to point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u57	Thank you for this point of fact, and now Mrs Langšádlová, with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u58	Mr. Secretary, hello. I wanted to ask if you don't know why these call centers are there, I really think that investment incentives should not be oriented to call centers, if it would not be possible for you to support the proposal of a colleague who proposes the exclusion of call centers from these incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u59	Thank you. If I do not have any further factual remarks at the moment and I do not even see any applications for the debate, I am ending the debate at this time and I am asking whether the Minister or rapporteur is interested in the final word. [[No.]] If this is not the case, we will proceed to the vote on the amendments and I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u60	Thank you, Mr President. The Economic Committee proposed the following procedure: firstly, we would vote on the proposed legislative technical amendments, secondly, on the B amendment, which is my amendment to abolish investment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u61	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you. I've called my colleagues to the O.R., and I'm asking that while they're coming, they do their best to be quiet, so we can hear the procedure proposal. Calm down, please. And, rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u62	So after voting on legislative technical adaptations, we would vote on Amendment B, which is my amendment to ODS to abolish investment incentives as instruments. If this proposal were adopted, the other proposals would become unvoting. If it had not been adopted, we would have voted on proposal A1, which is precisely the removal of customer support centres. Another would be voted on Amendment A2, followed by A3, followed by A4, A5, C and D and then on the Bill as a whole. I will mark all these amendments as to what they relate when we vote on them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u63	Thank you. So I think the procedure is understandable. If no one else has a draft procedure, we will vote on the approval of this procedure. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 918 vote, 187 Members and Members are registered, for 174, against no one. The draft procedure has been accepted. So please, rapporteur, follow us through with the various proposals and please give us a short explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u64	Yes, thank you for supporting the procedure. First of all, we would vote on the legislative technical amendment tabled, which is referred to under letter C, namely its second point, which reads: Amendment point 16 reads: in Section 3 paragraph. The first sentence of the first sentence shall be inserted after the word "person" the comma and the words "which is a small or medium-sized enterprise."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u65	Thank you. I checked you all out on request, so please log in again, and when the number of entries is settled, I will begin voting on legislative technical adaptations. That's right. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 919 vote, 172 Members and Members are enrolled, for 171, against 2... Sorry, somebody came forward at the last minute. 173 Members and Members are registered, for 171, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u66	Therefore, we will now vote on the amendment under the heading B. It is the abolition of the instrument of investment incentives. Opinion of the Economic Committee - Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u67	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[I can't hear you.]] Please turn on the microphone. [[Minister: No.]] The ministry's position is therefore negative. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 920 vote, 175 Members and Members were enrolled, for 45, against 101. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u68	In that case, we will now vote on the amendment under the designation A1 - it is precisely the removal of customer support centres from this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u69	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Yes.]] Sorry. First, the committee's opinion. [[Recommendant.]] Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Yes, it's a recommendation.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 921 175 Members and Members are registered, for 171, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u70	Another proposal under the designation A2 of Mr Pustějovskýějovský through the Economic Committee. And it is de facto the involvement of the Economic Chamber's explicit facilities in the assessment of the investment incentive system and the formulation of government regulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u71	Please get more on the microphone. Minister, what is the ministry's position? [[Neutral.]] The rapporteur? [[Committee without an opinion.]] I hope we know everything. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 922, 176 Members and Members are registered, for 74, against 25. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u72	Another proposal under the designation A3 of Mr Kubíček through the Economic Committee. This is an explicit addition of the EU Commission regulation directly to the text of the law. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u73	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Yes.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 923 vote, 176 Members and Members are registered, for 170, against 4. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u74	The next proposal is under the designation A4 of Mr Kubíček through the Economic Committee. And it is a matter of being in breach or virtually. the lack of investment incentives was not governed by budgetary rules, but by tax laws, as it was in the original version of the Act. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u75	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Yes.]] Thank you. I have begun the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 924 vote, 176 Members and Members are registered, for 171, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u76	Now point A5 - Amendment A5, which is actually also a legislative technical regulation, is that the words 'employment' will be added to the footnote in the first paragraph 55. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u77	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the 925 vote, 177 Members and Members are registered, for 170, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u78	The next proposal you will find under designation C is my amendment to the ODS. It is a restriction of investment incentives only to SMEs. Opinion of the Committee - without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u79	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I have begun the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 926 vote, 177 Members and Members are registered, for 79, against 67. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u80	The next proposal is an amendment under the designation D of Mr Júříček. It concerns time limits, namely that the Government decides on a proposal from the Ministry for the approval of an investment incentive within three months of its submission. The opinion of the Committee shall be without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u81	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I have begun the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 927 vote, 177 Members and Members are enrolled, for 160, against 5. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u82	This has exhausted the amendments and, according to my remarks, we should vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u83	Yes. All proposals have been voted on. So we're going to proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 72/2000 Coll., on investment incentives and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, pursuant to the House's Press 298, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Act on investment incentives]] Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Agreed, yes.]] Thank you. So I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 928 177 Members and Members are registered, for 131, against 6. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Is Mrs Richterová reporting for a vote? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u84	Just for the record for the vote, I voted in favour of number 927, and I'm late for high school. So I'm not questioning the vote, just for the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u85	Thank you, so it was for the record. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. That concludes the discussion of this press. And it's 13.28, so we have two minutes to discuss other laws, so... I would interrupt until 13.30 when the method of financing social services in the Czech Republic is firmly included in 2019, which is paragraph 241. And I'll see you here in two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-07-ps2017-030-08-005-151.u86	Dear colleagues, it is 13.30, so we will continue the negotiations. Before I open the point, we have been apologized by Mr. Skopeček, Mr. Stanjura and Mr. Ondráček since 13:30. So now I'm opening up a fixed point for this time.
