ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u1	86. Government proposal by which the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic submit its consent proposal for a Council recommendation on access of workers and self-employed persons to social protection /German press 366-E/ [[11.50 hours]] The Government has submitted a proposal to give prior consent to the House under Section 109j of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies without undue delay, so as to allow its timely consultation. The submitted proposal will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in March 2018, the European Commission presented a European pillar of social rights in the context of the so-called 'European pillar of social rights'. the social justice package proposal for a Council recommendation on access to social protection for workers and self-employed persons. The proposal for a recommendation was approved by the Government by the framework position agreed by the two chambers of Parliament. Following negotiations at working level, the Austrian Presidency submitted the resulting compromise proposal at the meeting of the Labour and Social Affairs Council on 6 December 2018, where a political agreement was reached. The formal approval shall be taken after the Czech Republic and Germany have notified the outcome of the discussion of the draft Council recommendation in their national parliaments. The other countries have already agreed to the compromise proposal without reservation. Germany must adopt a national law before the formal vote and approval of the Council, which is expected in May of this year. The legal law of the draft recommendation is Article 153 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) and Article 352 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, since the recommendation regulates the area of social security and social protection and also affects self-employed persons, which is outside the scope of the current competences of the European Union. At this point, I would like to remind you that the EU has competence under Articles 151 and 153 of this Treaty to adopt harmonisation standards in the field of social security and social protection in accordance with a special legislative procedure, provided that the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality is respected. In such a case, however, approval in the Council requires unanimity. For this reason, too, the European Commission has chosen legally non-binding recommendations for adjusting access to the social protection of workers and self-employed workers, because the unanimous adoption of a legally binding harmonisation act would be unrealistic in the Council. The application of Article 352 of the Treaty as a legal basis means that the adoption of a proposal by the Czech Republic in the Council is subject, according to the Rules of Procedure, to the prior consent of the two chambers of Parliament. The Government's proposal has therefore now been referred to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, giving the Senate plenary prior consent to the positive vote in the Council at its 5th meeting on 31 January of this year. With regard to the recommendations themselves, this is a response to the reality of the current labour market, where, with regard to new technologies and working practices, the number of workers often grows in new, flexible, but often also so-called. Precautions of employment. The aim of the recommendation is therefore to support all self-employed persons and workers with non-standard contracts who, because of their type of contract or position on the labour market, are not sufficiently protected by social protection systems. In doing so, the Recommendation respects the competence of the Member States to set the level of their national social protection systems, so it fully complies with the subsidiarity principle and respects the division of competences. For the Czech Republic, the Commission's initial proposal in the field of formal coverage of the CFI was problematic on the basis of compulsory participation in most social protection systems. However, almost half of the Member States, even in this legally non-binding document, were in favour of the recommendations of higher standards and compulsory insurance in all sectors of social security. However, the second half, including the Czech Republic, demanded a more flexible version. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the resulting text of the recommendations proposes introducing voluntary insurance schemes for self-employed persons. For the Czech Republic, this means that it is not forced to change in any way in its system. Since all the requirements of the Czech Republic have been taken into account in the negotiations, in line with the framework position you supported, the Chamber of Deputies is proposed to give its consent to the recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u3	Thank you, Minister. The President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered by his decision No. 25 of 9 January 2019 set this proposal for discussion by the Committee on European Affairs for a period of up to 8 February 2019. The Committee has discussed the proposal, adopted a resolution. We have it at our disposal as the House press 366-E/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Andrea Babišová, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs, which took place on 6 February 2019. The Committee on European Affairs, after hearing information from the representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, after hearing the report by Mrs Andrea Babišová and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic adopt the following resolution: 1. does not give its prior consent to the proposal for a Council recommendation on access to social protection for workers and self-employed persons; 2. fundamentally rejects the interpretation of the Institute of Prior Consent in a Government Opinion stating that failure to give Parliament's consent allows the Government to abstain from voting in the Council in order to allow the recommendations to be approved by the other Member States; 3. Notes that Article 109i of Law No. 91/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, must be interpreted in such a way that, unless prior consent has been given, the Government cannot not only vote positively but also abstain from voting; 4. Calls on the Government to proceed in accordance with this interpretation when submitting all subsequent proposals for prior approval; II. empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open the debate in which Mr Veselý came forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to admit that I was on the European Committee and I was rather surprised because at the time when we discussed the material for the first time, we agreed to the material, we set guidelines. The D.O.D. followed them exactly, negotiated what we wanted. And even though it negotiated what we wanted, we then adopted, not by vote, but by majority vote, the position read by the rapporteur here. [[unintelligible]] I would like to propose a counter-negotiation from this point of view, that is, to give my consent to the recommendation. In my opinion, the Ministry has really fulfilled everything we have imposed on it in negotiations with the European Union, and the output would have been the one we originally wanted. Why this has turned out to be the case with some colleagues, I simply could not find out despite a rather rich discussion on the committee. So I propose the opposite resolution, which means approving the Council's recommendation or agreeing, sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I understand your proposal, but I cannot put it to a vote, under Rule 109k of the Rules of Procedure, only a motion for rejection or a motion to adjourn the Government's proposal may be tabled in the debate. We're running point 109 here, so we can't vote on what you suggested. Please, is there anyone else who's joining the debate? No. I'm done with the conversation. Is there interest in final words? There's no interest in final words. In this case, since the committee is actually proposing a disagreeable position, I would ask the rapporteur once again to introduce us to the motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, which we will subsequently vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u8	Thank you for the floor. Motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies gives its prior consent to the Council's proposal for a Council recommendation on access to social protection for workers and self-employed persons, stating that the Committee on European Affairs has recommended not to adopt this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. the prior consent not to speak.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u9	No. I have here a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic does not give prior consent to the Council's proposal for a Council recommendation on access to social protection for workers and self-employed persons, fundamentally rejects the interpretation of the Institute of prior consent in a government opinion..." [[The rapporteur is turning her back on the microphone, facing the President: this is the committee's position.]] Yes, but this is a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. [[Newsletter: No, no, no, no, no. Subsequently, they argue which position is to be put to the vote. Madame from the legislation brings to the President another paper.]] Yes, okay, I understand. So, rapporteur, after all, I apologise for the confusion, but once again let us know the motion for a resolution, as you have read it. Yes, now and then we will vote on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u10	So once again, the proposal we're going to vote on. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees previously with the proposal for a Council recommendation on access to social protection for workers and self-employed persons, with the recommendation that the Committee on European Affairs advise the Chamber of Deputies not to adopt this resolution, i.e. the prior consent not to speak." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u11	Thank you, this is the text of the motion for a resolution that we will now vote on. President Stanjura with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask who is proposing this resolution, which the rapporteur has just read. Whose motion for a resolution is this? The committee suggested something completely different. That should be the vote proposal, the committee proposal. Not the newsletter! I have not experienced that the rapporteur has used completely different, opposite motions for resolutions. It could be a counterproposal, I understand. It should have been said: the Committee is proposing this, and I, as a Member and rapporteur, propose the opposite resolution, let us discuss what is being voted on as before. But we cannot not vote on a proposal adopted by the committee. And the committee accepted the proposal, as I understand it, not to give preliminary consent. And that is the basis for the vote. And, of course, counterproposals, supplementary proposals, etc. may fall to this, according to the Rules of Procedure. But we can't take it off the table with the committee against it. What is this House's resolution? With the fact that the committee was against it. This often happens that the House will decide differently than any committee, and I have not yet heard that the House approves the XY law, despite the fact that the Committee on Budgets has not recommended this approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must admit that I myself am not entirely clear on how to proceed at the moment, because the information from the legislation is that we are to vote on the Government's motion for a resolution as presented by the rapporteur. However, there is a motion for a resolution of the committee on which we are voting as the Chamber of Deputies in other cases. This is a European press, we can deal with it in another regime. However, I am now interrupting the session of the Chamber of Deputies within 12.05 hours, and we will clarify the next procedure within three minutes. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 12.02 to 12.05 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. And now it is clear, according to the Rules of Procedure, how we are to proceed. Thus, the Rules of Procedure state clearly: If the motion for rejection has not been tabled in the debate and such a proposal has not been made in the debate by the Committee's rapporteur, the vote is in accordance with Paragraph 109k (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 on the Government's proposal. Then we will vote on the motion for this resolution. I will now read the resolution because it does not sound as the rapporteur has read it. The resolution reads only as follows: 'The Chamber of Deputies has given its prior consent to the proposal for a Council recommendation on access to social protection for workers and self-employed persons'. So we will vote on this motion for a resolution. Is there any more confusion or objection? It's not. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 126, 143 Members registered, for 67, against 42. The motion was not accepted. I note that the motion for a resolution has not been agreed. I am done discussing this point and passing on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-008-086.u14	Have a nice noon! I'm looking, is there a request for a vote check? Then I'll proceed to the next item. This is the point
