ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u1	315. Control of the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 416 of 7. 12. 2018 in the matter of valorisation of the care allowance I ask that the appellant take the floor first, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, who, if she agrees, will also become his rapporteur. After that, I noted with the priority right of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to thank you first, for putting this item on the agenda at all. I also want to thank you for giving him such broad support in this resolution when we voted on it last year, because there really was no one here, apart from a few delays, against us committing the government to prepare a clear, specific valorisation mechanism for the care allowance. This is a social benefit that hundreds of thousands of people receive in our country, whether they are people who care for people who are minors, i.e. children who have serious health problems, usually are severely disabled, disabled, or those who are elderly. Of course, the recipient of the benefit is the client who can then determine for himself whether the caring person will be someone from a nearby family, if possible, or whether he will buy a service for them. I think that, in the case of social benefits such as this, it is ideal to set up a valorisation mechanism that is clearly defined, legalised and that is why, when we were discussing the amendment to the Social Services Act, I proposed to introduce such a mechanism with the amendment. I was suggesting at the time that we follow up the amount of care allowance on a percentage basis on minimum wage, because I believe that this is an indicator that corresponds very well to the way in which the care can be assessed. After all, it is an adequate wage that the person cannot usually receive during care, or he can only receive to a limited extent because he himself cannot be fully employed. If you want to take care of a particularly severely disabled family member, it usually means that your career ends and you have to take care of it purely. And since I think that if someone is totally dependent on such help, then they should have a chance to know in advance that their income or his way of helping here really will grow and it will be predictable, so I wanted us to adjust it in this way, because social benefits of this type are not so common. They're more of a minority. In this case, it may be very easy to use a comparison with pensions. And we do not question the fact that pensions are being valued by the legal mechanism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u3	I was just considering interrupting you. I'm really going to ask for peace in the room so that we can hear and understand what the lady here is telling us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u4	Thank you. I think that this is such a serious issue, it concerns a very large number of people, that we really should pay attention to it. So thank you to those who dedicate it. My proposal at the time was rejected by the Ministry because the Minister, I think of the Committee on Social Policy at the time, said that he was therefore unsystemically prepared, that he was not good enough to support it. But even then, she said that there is no debate on how to enact such automatic valorisation, so that an increase in the contribution to care can be done on a regular, predictable basis, and not only when Parliament decides to do so. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room.]] The current situation is that we increase this dose about once in a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u5	I would like to remind you once again that the meeting has really begun and it is not dignified when you force your colleague to scream at you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u6	And so, as far as the increase is concerned, as we will all remember from the last parliamentary term, this is accompanied by extensive debates that are mostly conducted at the level of such appeals, why we are adding so much, why not by more or why not less. And I think that at the very moment that we would get rid of this political decision here and leave it to a legal mechanism that would be clearly given, we would help the beneficiaries the most, because they would be very clear that every year, even if it wasn't a very high amount, but at least some would increase their dose, which would certainly also take into account the fact that prices are rising, and inflation will, of course, also manifest itself in some way in the economic situation of these families. That is why we have adopted precisely the resolution that we are discussing here today, the 416 which, by 1 September of this year, imposed on the government to prepare such a valorisation mechanism so that it could not be called into question by the words that we heard in the discussion of my proposal, namely that it is not systemic or that it is poorly prepared and that it is not feasible. I welcome the fact that the Ministry wants to continue to discuss this, that it considers it important, and I welcomed even more that you yourself considered it so important that you gave it this broad support. That is why I think it is high time that we learned how the Minister and his ministry have dealt with this and heard her proposal, which, of course, is not yet in the form of a legislative one, which could be discussed very soon here, I am aware of, but I think we should be able to hear it, or the Minister should be able to imagine how he imagines that automatic valorisation for the care allowance could be introduced. I am in favour of really valorising those benefits that are so important to their recipients, on whom they are often dependant, more often than just once in a parliamentary term by changing the law. It's similar to pensions. I think it is very appropriate for us to implement this precisely in the case of the care allowance, and how we are likely to act today, as well as in the parental contribution, which is also often the main source of income of a person caring for a small child again. So in this case, I think that the logic here of the three doses, why demand this mechanism, they have a great deal, they're very similar in a certain sense, and it's appropriate. I certainly would not suggest that we valorize other social benefits in this way, whether it is an example, birth or cash assistance in motherhood, that is a completely different type of benefit, and there is no way in which this mechanism can be used. After all, it's being used in a different way. So that's why I'd like us to have this debate today really over the contribution to the care that this is supposed to involve. I would just like to illustrate if I had been able to get away with the amendment last year, so from July 2019 it would have been based on the indicator that I mentioned, namely, a certain multiple of the minimum wage, of course, at each level, because they are four degrees, so at each level they are different. And let me give an example of what this dose would look like today if it were approved then. For example, a care allowance for persons under the age of 18 would be CZK 4,005 instead of the current 3 300 crowns, so we can see that the increase of CZK 705 is definitely worth it to the recipients. Or for example. for the highest degree of dependence, i.e. the most serious, where level number four and dependence are complete, so there would be a place of the current 13 200 in the case of residential services already by CZK 14,685 and for those who do not use social services, instead of the current 19 200 it would be already CZK 20 025, which is again more than CZK 800 increase compared to the current state, and I think that these families will definitely appreciate it and it is definitely a fundamental change for them. We can, of course, have different approaches to social benefits across the political spectrum, but I think that in this case, where this is a benefit, which concerns often very severely affected people or people who are very dependent on the needs of other people, it should be an absolute priority for us. These are people who often can't really help themselves, they can't help themselves if, for example, the highest dependence, that they still work in some way. On the contrary, for addiction in third degree, respectively. The third stage is often people who are dependent on assistance, but because of it, they may be able to participate in the study, in the work, and they should also be helped to be able to be realized, not completely dependent on the service, and, on the contrary, to improve their condition, for example, because they are also so involved. Therefore, please pay more attention to this dose and pay more attention to those for whom it is intended, because these are exactly the people who need help from us, and in the way we propose, they would certainly be helped in particular. Thank you for your attention and I am very much looking forward to presenting the implementation of this resolution by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u7	Thank you, Madame. The Minister wanted to speak before the debate was opened. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to discuss this point today. The contribution to care introduced in 2006 was increased in total twice in its history, each time under the leadership of the Social Democratic Minister. That's a good reminder. You probably know that the care allowance is provided to those who are dependent on helping others. At present, roughly 360,000 people receive this dose every month. In the long run, older people dominate, and people over 65 make up about 70 percent of all those who receive, which is approximately 248,000 people. A care allowance can be obtained from one year of life by anyone who needs help in managing basic life needs due to long-term health problems. While in the first degree of dependence the allowance for care is CZK 880 and CZK 3,300 for children, in the highest level, the fourth level is CZK 19,200 today. This amount is provided to the most affected persons who do not benefit from social services at the same time. In addition, families with children and low incomes increase their contribution by an additional CZK 2 000. The number of beneficiaries of the allowance has been increasing relatively sharply since it was introduced. However, I would focus only on the years 2014 to 2018, which is a sufficient period for the question of valorisation. As I mentioned, this is the first time the care allowance has increased over the 13 years. Over this period, the number of beneficiaries increased from around 330 to 360 000. [[000]] Of course, costs have also increased as well. In particular, over this period, the cost of the care allowance increased by 5.6 billion. CZK, i.e. by about 28 percent. Only last year, the state budget spent 26 billion on the care allowance. Crowns. From these numbers it is clear that any interference with this dose, including valorisation, must be viewed in the light of several things. It is the health status of the beneficiary, the age of the beneficiary, the socio-economic situation of the beneficiary as well as the form of support, assistance and care provided. [[9.20 hours]] As far as valorisation is concerned, it is logical that the amount of the care allowance must be changed over time in order to maintain its fair value. This can be achieved either by one-off and repeated increases in the contribution or by automatic valuations. Over the years, as I have already mentioned, we have increased this contribution. Ten percent increase in the contribution in all stages of 2016 I have already mentioned, this year it is a jump increase in the third and fourth levels. It was for those who do not use social services. Over the years there were requirements for the introduction of a valorisation mechanism, although sometimes the concept of valorisation and increase of the dose was confused. The Valorisation Mechanism, and this is important to recall, was included in the initial wording of the Social Services Act, when the amounts for the care allowance should have been audited following the growth of consumer social welfare prices. According to this mechanism, the government was to increase the contribution on 1 January each time consumer welfare prices rose by at least 5%. Moreover, the government had the opportunity to increase its contribution even in an exceptional period. This mechanism, and this is important to note, was repealed in 2008. I repeat once again, this mechanism was abolished in 2008 by the Act on Stabilisation of Public Budgets, and therefore it has never been used since the care allowance was introduced. As part of the preparation of the amendment to the Social Services Act in 2015, the appropriateness of the introduction of a new Valorisation Mechanism was again thoroughly assessed. After assessing the different models, however, even then, there was no valuation and the above 10% ad hoc increase in the care allowance in all levels of dependence was agreed. That was in 2016. And now to the possibilities of valorization. Both ways of increasing the contribution have its pros and cons. I mean, valorization and promotion. I would like to remind you that the valorisation mechanism is not a rule for uninsurable doses. If we introduce it in the care allowance, we can expect requirements for its introduction also for other benefits. I recall the parliamentary amendment to press 460, which means the parental contribution. But if we want to find the right valorisation mechanism, we first need to find a rational valorization variable that is related to the purpose of the care allowance. This quantity must be quantified, long-term and reliable data source statistics. Only then can it be considered predictable, as this House asks. I would like to point out that when this variable is changed, the amount of the dose can move in two directions, which is important to point out - i.e. increase and decrease. And once again, I draw attention to this risk. However, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is currently working with six options on how to valorize the contribution to care. Basically, these are six economic variables. The first option binds valorisation to the development of the average gross monthly wage. The second option proposes to take advantage of the evolution of the average monthly amount of the old-age pension, and as I mentioned, the largest number of beneficiaries of the care allowance is over 65 years of age. The third option - to take advantage of the development of nutrition costs and other basic personal needs according to consumer prices for households in total. The fourth option returns to the original valorisation mechanism, which was abolished in 2008, i.e. the valorisation of the care allowance according to the development of household welfare prices in total. The fifth option - it uses the model of pension valorization, i.e. a combination of price development and real wages. And the sixth option actually combines valorizing the care allowance with a minimum wage. As this palette describes, or actually describes, all six variants have their reasons and make sense for various reasons. Finally, I would like to point out that the valorisation mechanism is fairer than the ad hoc increase in the care allowance. Really fairer. Each variant of valorisation in the growth of a given economic variable will bring a strengthening of family budgets. The impact of individual variations on the state budget may vary. Each of the variables can change at its own pace and direction. We can only estimate the costs very roughly and move, I would like to stress this, at the level of... of between half a billion and three billion crowns each year. We need to agree whether valorisation should be voluntary or mandatory. And let me just remind you, for example, that pensions are now being audited, for example, for example, the minimum living and existential status is optional. To sum up: The care allowance increased in 2016 and 2019. We have given this issue of valorisation of the care allowance at the Ministry really seriously, very much attention. All six options need to be carefully considered and discussed. We are discussing them at the moment within the working group, which was established with all relevant actors in the framework of the amendment to the Social Services Act. I remind you that today we have a seminar with you legislators on the amendment to the Social Services Act here in the Chamber of Deputies. However, to select the option that should be developed in more detail in the draft amendment to the Social Services Act, this will take place in the coming weeks. However, it is important to keep in mind the possible very high cost of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I am initiating a general debate. I would also like to state on the tape that Mrs Richterová is voting with a replacement card 16 and Mr Špičák is voting with a replacement card number 18. And Mrs Richterová is enrolled in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I would like to remind you very briefly what time we are living in. Why is this topic relevant? We live in an inflation age. At a time when it's just that every year things get a little bit more expensive. I feel like we're acting on the law like this doesn't exist. We approve fixed amounts in the laws, yet we really know that even in taxes the state always collects a little bit more, because just the two, two and a half percent are a clear trend for many, many years. And this fact is also taken into account in the old-age pension law, pension law. This fact is taken into account, by the way, and that seems quite substantial to me, even in our salaries, politicians' salaries are also being paid, gradually increasing, but, on the contrary, it is ignored in a number of important expenditures by the state. And we're discussing one of these today, the care allowance. Of course, I listened carefully to the Minister. Of course, we need reliable data sources, that theoretically two-way development is possible, and a decline, but it is practically short and simple that when we take into account price growth, the increase in cost of living, the fact that it is simply inevitable that the butter that costs CZK 35 for one decade will cost 60 in the next decade, and then it will probably shift to CZK 80, that this is how the gradual price level is rising, so when we accept this, we see that the two-way possible reduction does not actually have to worry that there is actually a certainty that there is actually going to be some slight increase. What is the question is then the rate of wage and wage growth and inflation itself. [[9.30 hours]] But it's a matter of fact. As is the case with pensions, such as real wage and inflation growth, while increasing it is just below the rate of tax collection so that the state has some room for manoeuvre, this mechanism would also be offered for verification of the care allowance. So it is one thing to accept this fact, this fact that we live in an inflationary time, the other thing is not to make excuses for what could be different setbacks. Because it takes the pensions we know how to do it. And then the last thing. It's important to say that we as the legislature devote a terrible number of hours - and if you multiply that number of hours to raise numbers by how many of us are here, and that we should basically be top managers...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u11	I'm sorry, Madam. Calm down, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u12	The idea is really simple. If you multiply our number - we sit here mostly 180, 190 - times the clock we discuss raising specific amounts, you will find that these are huge numbers of hours, thousands of hours of basically top managers, if we perceive our legislature, thousands of hours of discussion on the numbers, squabbling really about the figures in the laws, while at least part of these discussions might save ourselves a mechanism of regular slight increase. Once again, our time is simply an inflation period, a time when prices increase somewhat year after year. And that's what we should be counting on in the law, not always dealing with it backwards. Our country can do it, it's proven in retirement, it's proven on the salaries of politicians. So it is appropriate to want to have a meaningful conversation about the possibility of this mechanism, this humiliated, somehow moderate increase, to solve the care allowance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u13	Thank you. The rapporteur is reporting for the debate. I'd like to ask you once again to remain calm in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u14	Thank you for the floor. I also thank the Minister for presenting all the six variants, respectively their very rough outlines. At the same time, how they proceeded to do so. I still have a few questions. We are the resolution that we are asking the government to prepare the foreseeable valorisation mechanism by 1 September this year, committed to the vote that took place on 7 December last year. From this point on, it is clear that directly the Ministry, when I pass away, well that it began to work on this at the beginning of 2019, so they had for it almost nine months, eight months definitely. And that's just when we're so generous, let's say. And it seems a little small to me that after so many months here we hear that there are so many variations in the game and what are their rough outlines. I think that if the Ministry actually approaches this as responsibly as the Minister says, it is already here today that it stands not with six variants, but maybe just narrowly with the two that it will consider, both of them, perhaps feasible, will present to us their difficulties, but also their advantages, and will tell us what else is the way, what is the timetable, the deadline, until it is really decided, not just the vague, indeterminate "sometimes within the working group we will still act over it and see when and how we will do it"? Of course, Madam Secretary, we are all aware that these are considerable budgetary demands. After all, when the amendment was tabled, I also took this into account and, of course, I had calculated how much the state budget would cost my particular proposal for valorisation. But in this case, today, after so many months the ministry had, it seems a little inadequate for us to have this vague conversation. So I want to ask your opinion on that. First of all, you'll really know by which date you'd be able to reconfigure the result, and also what option is the one you prefer, which you find the best possible. As for the past that you mentioned, which, in my opinion, is very illustrative - it has only increased twice in all this time. And that is really very little for many people to have a vital dose. And, of course, you're going to read it to me, and I expect it to be your governments that have stepped up to the increase. I would like to correct that during the reign of Nečasův there was a reduction of one degree, but for the next stages there was an increase. So it cannot be considered that it was there at the time - there were simply such changes that were not purely, let's say, a minus for some, but it was a equilibrium. Of course, I also understand that there is a lot of economic situation involved, and I am not covering it up, and let's not really cover it up for the people who need the dose, they accept that when the dose is linked to some particular valorisation mechanism, it will always have to grow. Really, and I totally agree with you, there may be an economic situation that simply manifests itself in a way that, on the contrary, the formula will reduce the dose. It's possible. However, in this case, of course, it depends very much on what particular option will be chosen and how it will then be projected in the future. We can't see into that. We definitely don't have a crystal ball. But we can say that it is much fairer then, which is once again a matter in which I completely agree with you. Because if the valorisation mechanism is, it's predictable for everyone, if the dose is more likely to grow, or maybe stagnate for some time, or God forbid even go down. But that should only happen very rarely anyway. So in my opinion, the implementation of the resolution is kind of half-baked. Because you really had enough time to figure it out with the result. We have half the term. Now, when you start to think about how you're going to take a positive approach to this variant, it's expected that sometime in the beginning of next year, we could get here in the House to discuss a specific form of law. And as we know from the discussion of this matter in the past, this debate will certainly not be very easy, it will be trash, and so I dare say that we are talking about the impact on reality here, i.e. really into the practice of those people, at first at some point in 2021. And I think it's a pretty long horizon. So please let us know the answers to the specific considerations and deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u15	Thank you, Madame. Mr Juříček, then Mrs Richterová, wants a factual comment on the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I swore I wouldn't respond to the wisdom you're showing here in the House, but this time, the wisdom I've heard here from the pirát won't give me. It is important to realize that we live more in a time that is cyclic. And now, as the global market develops - and there are about a few Members who can judge it as I can - the market is falling significantly. I wonder how we can handle the state budget. And it would certainly be worth taking into account that the idea of whether we are still endlessly giving out more and more social packages, so whether they should not be linked to growth or a fall in gross domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u17	Thank you. Another factual point, Mrs Richterová. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u18	Thank you for the floor. Just really, really, really short. I am curious about the answers she has put through the President, Mrs Pekarová. I'm curious about the terms, how the Ministry sees it, whether it wants to put it on ice, or after all, it's an idea that we're going to discuss. As far as the development of the global economy is concerned, of course, we also observe this very carefully that there is certainly a slowdown in economic growth, but that is precisely the point that, even with the slowdown in economic growth, there is an increase in prices. It's a sign of the time we live in. That moderate price growth is a very important indicator to be followed. And I keep trying to point out that that's why there's a problem when there's fixed amounts in the law. That's the long-term trend. Long-term trends are different from slight fluctuations. But one more thing is to link the care allowance to our entire social services system. I wanted to remind you that the big discussions that were here about funding social services are actually closely related to this, we suggested a different ratio, but that the big difference between the contribution that goes to the client's residential services versus the field care is also causing an imbalance that simply the system needs intervention, it is not possible to let it go on self-locking. Our entire system of care for people with disabilities and even care for informal carers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u19	Thank you. Now for the debate with the Prime Minister's priority right, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will be prepared, then Mr Jan Bauer. Let me read you a few apologies. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes from today's meeting from 9.30 to 11.00 for working reasons, Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes today from 13 to 17 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Jan Birke apologises from 14 o'clock and on Thursday he apologizes throughout the day, on Friday again throughout the day. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u20	Thank you. I'd like to answer a few questions that have fallen. But before that - we had a valorisation mechanism for the care allowance. It was cancelled in 2008, when Petr Nečas and Minister of Finance Mr Kalousek were the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. So it needs to be recalled. Ten years later, a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies came into being that there was a need for a valorisation mechanism. That means I'm hoping that if we decide on the valorisation mechanism...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have anything to do with this, please go to the lobby and do not disturb.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u22	...that if we decide to implement the valorisation mechanism because we are considering it very seriously, the right will not cancel it again two years later, as it did last time. Because that's how it really was. We introduced him, you canceled him, now you want to introduce him after ten years. About my personal preferences. I think at this point - and I said it before, because I was asked for my personal opinion, I am happy to repeat it, because repetition is the mother of wisdom. I think that any change in the contribution to care must be very closely linked to the amendment to the Social Services Act. There's no point in making any systemic changes unless there's a social service rope. As you probably know, we're very intensive at the moment, and I've already said it, we're working on an amendment to the Social Services Act, and there's a working group meeting every Tuesday. Today we have a seminar in the Chamber of Deputies on our progress, which you are all invited to. And according to the legislative work plan, the amendment to the Social Services Act is to be submitted to the government by the end of this year. That means the timetable, including the timetable, is very clear. And I repeat once again, any change in the care allowance must go hand in hand with the amendment to Law 108, without that, I think the interference in the system would be counterproductive. As far as my personal preferences are concerned, I have two options that I think would make sense, but it will just depend on the system of funding in social services, which is why I will not mention them. In any case, I can say that the valorisation mechanism should not be mandatory, because we do not have a mandatory valorisation mechanism for non-insurable social benefits, which we only have for insurance premiums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u23	Thank you. Next is the debate by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, Mr Bauer will be prepared. We'll make one more apology. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková apologizes from today's meeting from 11.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am very sorry that the resolution we are discussing here today, on which we have a point, has, more or less, not been made public by the Minister himself, and the request to interpret information on possible valorisation or preparation of the care allowance, so it must have been parliamentary initiatives. And I must say that even today's round table on the amendment on social services, which has been mentioned several times here by the Minister, is also thanks to the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy and the Chamber of Deputies that the legislators will meet together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This means that we didn't even have to be sure that the Minister would like to discuss with us the preparation of the amendment at the level that we ensured in this form. Anyway, I'd like to comment on the valorization of the care allowance. We would also like it if there was some natural valorisation mechanism for this contribution. But I would like to say that this is not just about the care allowance itself. The KSČM does not like the way the care allowance is taken, because on the other hand, we have to say openly that the care allowance, which now takes the form of CZK 31 billion per year, really we can speak openly that it has achieved a great unsystemicity, especially in the form that the increase occurred only in the home care and more or less in the residential care, I do not want to say constitutional, the care has behaved in the form it is, and in practice it really brings considerable problems. We also do not like the fact that partial abuse is constantly taking place in this contribution, which is openly necessary to say. And unfortunately, it doesn't go as far as picking up adults as it does those kids. And I am convinced that it is necessary to control the care allowance, especially in the care at home, by some mechanism. It doesn't matter that the care allowance shows us what the big problem is, that it's actually the only amount that the family, virtually. the client and the caring person are receiving. Often when the client leaves for two or three months for a spa stay, the family is of course without this amount and at that moment they are absolutely without any other funds. And I believe that it is really necessary to address not only the valorisation of the care allowance, but the whole mechanism. I think that carers should be strictly separated from the care allowance and that they should be financed by a completely different amount - we can call it a social benefit, because the care allowance is a social benefit. But I think that these two people really should be financed quite differently. And then we can really talk about the actual valorization of the care allowance. And I have to say, I'm really sorry that we're always talking about this increase. We really need to talk about the complexity and the unsystematicness that the mechanism that is now set up brings. [[9.50 hours]] Today we have a round table, we are really in most cases with colleagues and colleagues wondering what the Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Labour will tell us. I myself am curious because yesterday I also read the documents we received, and frankly I am afraid of the amendment to the Social Services Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u25	Thank you, Madame. I have one point of fact here. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková would like to respond. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, just quick. I have to stand up for Madam Secretary. Work at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs is running. Including preparations, analyses, gathering documents and proposals on how to make the system not only social security, but everything that is related to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' agenda. I would like to turn against the fact that it seems as if the Minister is not working unless the Members are pushing. It's not true! It really isn't true. The legislative process is quite obvious. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, like any department, has an obligation to prepare, to do, and Members do not speak to them until the proposal is made to the Chamber of Deputies. I appreciate colleagues from the Social Committee who are interested and want to be involved in the process when things are being prepared. That's right. Finally, they are Members who then have to approve the proposals. However, we cannot, as Members here, say that without us, these things would not be. They happen, the secretary works, the ministry works. They would, maybe not at the time you imagine, maybe a little later, but they're, they're getting ready, they're happening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u27	Thank you. Another factual point, Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u28	I understand that, of course, you, my colleague through the President, will defend your minister and support her. But in this case, let's be very fair about how things are with this dose. Because, of course, we are not only dealing with its size here, but we, very often, thanks to the Members, and completely above the level of partyism, the Members and the Government Coalition, have come to the subject of its admissions and the huge problem that is here in this area. I didn't want to mention it here today on the subject. I think that this would also be part of this, but that let us act in a matter of fact about valorisation, let us discuss in substance what we approved in December last year, but let us be fair to the fact that, if it were not for Members and their enormous pressure, since the last parliamentary term, then how long is it to assess the entitlement to the care allowance at all today, that would not be as common a subject as it was because of the pressure of the Committee on Social Policy. At that time, his chair, Radka Maxová, was devoted to this every quarter of a year, including the point very regularly, and I think that this will have to continue, because of course, the situation is only getting better very slowly, if at all. So let us be fair that, in this case, it was only because of the pressure of Members that something was happening. And it's not the only case. I must remind you, when we mention here the amendment to the Social Services Act, that in the last term, when social democracy had the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for the whole time, of course, it was one big fiasco, because the bill was not even properly negotiated here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u29	Thank you. One more factual point, Mrs Gajdůšková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u30	Thanks again for the word, I won't hold you up, just quick. Mrs Adamová Pekarová, through the President, we know, of course, that there are problems in granting benefits when assigning citizens to the various stages. But that's not a matter of law. It's a matter of how it goes in the field. So I think we should thank the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Maláčová, for embarking on matters relating to the medical assessment service. That she's embarked on matters relating to the Labour Office and the whole very complex system that people are dealing with. And, of course, it's not ideal there, I could tell stories myself. But I say again, thank you, Madam Secretary, for getting into these things, and step by step, step by step, is trying to improve them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u31	Thank you. A real point, Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u32	Indeed, to clarify the debate, as has been said here, this contribution needs to be carefully monitored. Of course, we agree with that in the Pirát. All we can see is that the office that's supposed to do it today, the Labor Office, actually often doesn't have the capacity to do it, doesn't have the real option. So that's actually the reaction that our state doesn't consistently enforce those possibilities. And it doesn't give the support to casual carers, the support to be able to manage well. I understand the Minister's words that this is closely linked to the amendment to the Social Services Act. But one more point of fact, I have to say. The medical assessment service is failing due to a lack of management in the past. The point is that people are waiting six months for reviews here, it's not normal. There are countries where it's done in weeks. It's only been 180 days in my country. Administrative proceedings are adjourned. In the area of care for people with disabilities, we simply have huge reserves, it needs to be kept quiet and dealt with. And it is also a question of how many people at the Ministry itself are dealing with this issue, where the priorities of the Ministry are, and whether it is the whole issue of caring for people with disabilities, caring for people in serious diseases and similarly being sufficiently prioritized by your Ministry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u33	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Bauer will wait a little longer, with the Minister's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u34	Thank you for reminding me of the topic of medical opinion. Mrs Richterová probably recalls this because my colleagues came to her on Monday to consult with her on the big amendment to the medical assessment service and the major changes we are about to make. So it's very good at what we're up to. I think she commended us for these proposals, and we will introduce them in the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u35	Thank you. Mr Jan Bauer with a proper application for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u36	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, really only briefly. I will apologize, in the beginning I will just turn away from this topic, but I would like to say a few words in general to Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I have the honour to be rapporteur for both the adoption of the draft budget and the approval of the final account in the long term, and I would like to say that I am looking at this chapter in the long term not only as a member of the Committee on Social Policy but also as a member of the Economic Committee. And I would just like to say, and I think the Minister here will agree with me, for your information: about 670 or 680 billion in the state budget and about 44 percent in the overall budget, most of the money, about 94 percent, is the mandatorial expenditure. And I would like to say fairly, before I comment on the care allowance, that if something doesn't happen, I am concerned that Chapter 313, where everything is hidden, will be very difficult to finance in the long term. Very complicated. The expenses are increasing. [[10.00 hours]] I hear voices here that we should make all these donations and benefits a sort of delivery machine. It's legitimate. It is a legitimate requirement, even in some matters it is justified. I am just pointing out - and here it is simply for the gros of what Mr Pavel Juříček said - this chapter will be very difficult to finance in the long term. I don't want to say that it may not be financed, it may be financed, because money will be taken from other parts of the state budget, but very difficult to finance in the long term. And if something doesn't happen - we, among other things, called for a so-called review of social benefits to be looked at. The Minister of Finance is here, yes, and the Minister of Finance has called and called on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová to actually carry out a serious review of social benefits before discussing the draft state budget for 2020. Here I would like to say, and that was my direct question to the Committee on Social Policy - how the social benefits were revised. So I am only telling the Minister of Finance - the revision has taken place. The result was posted on the site of the Ministry of Labour exactly on svatý Valentýn's Day and the result is that no revision will take place outside the discussion on the contribution to housing or the supplement to housing. So it's just for the Lady of Labor information that this has happened, we've done it, it's been hanging from svatý Valentýn's Day on the website, and nothing's gonna happen. [[finance?]] So I just wanted to point out that, uh, how to finance it, the whole chapter, there are a few models for that. Some want to raise taxes, some want to introduce a sectoral or digital tax, or generally raise taxes. Among other things, we are leaning towards the fact that there really has to be a serious debate over the revision of social benefits so that this does not come from a pay-off machine and that the money is actually paid out to those who deserve it in the finals. Now back to the care allowance. I would like to say that it is fair here to admit that this was, above all, the initiative of our Senate, they came up with this proposal and finally decided to raise the known money in third and fourth degrees. Unfortunately, we have suggested that this should be without distinction whether the users are using the residence services, which unfortunately has not been granted, but we have criticised that the border between the third and fourth levels is very thin and that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should generally look not only at the third, fourth, but also at the first and second levels. Here, on the other hand, I must commend the Minister, because it really is true that a round table will take place in Konirna today as part of an amendment on social services, and there should be, among other things, a debate, probably over the six variations, what to do with this contribution in the long term systemically, which is the thing for which I must therefore commend the Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. She wants to respond with a factual remark by Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u38	Hello. I know it's been said a lot. I do not want to prolong the debate, but I would like to stress that I have become interested in the medical evaluation service just after there was no extra discussion on the social committee. I submitted an extensive written interpelation in summer, received an unsatisfactory response to it, a very incomplete answer, that I had lodged a contradiction to the written interpelation, and only after it became clear that we would meet, Madam Secretary, to respond, it was possible to meet with your people and talk about how it worked. I really want to say, this initiative is coming from our Members, and you can, of course, find the written interview. Well, that's one thing. And the second thing is - please, as far as funding is concerned, the only thing that has not yet been mentioned here is that, in short, as the economy is developing, every year tens of billions of withdrawals have increased, tax revenues have increased, but the fixed amounts remain, for example, in the care allowance. We are well aware that the state must act as a responsible economic operator, but it is not responsible to keep quiet about the fact that when income grows continuously, there are chapters where expenditure can grow continuously. A little something, of course, and considerately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u39	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone at the moment, so I'm ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. The appellant and rapporteur are interested in one person. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u40	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for the debate that's been going on here. I think that just because, when we voted on this resolution last December, 156 Members supported it, we made it clear enough that we consider this to be a very important issue and that we consider it important for the Ministry to work on this matter. I will propose, in a detailed debate, a resolution that we would adopt on the debate that has been held and on the information that we have learned from the Minister, because I think that there really was enough time to prepare a more concrete solution, and so I will allow myself, in that resolution, to take note of what we have learned here today, also to say that I consider this to be insufficient. [[Noise in the hall.]] From the point of view of how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs approached this, I learned that only one person is dedicated to it, so I do not think that this attention really is paid to it, plus, taking into account how many employees this ministry has, how rocketically their number has increased during the ČSSD government, but that is such a comment on the margins. From the point of view of the amendment to Act 108 on Social Services, which is definitely -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u41	I'll cut you off for a second and ask for some peace. If you have anything to do with a solution, please go to the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u42	- which is something that we all certainly can say almost everyone across the political spectrum, we acknowledge because we know that there is a need to change the funding of social services, we all know that the problem here is repeated year after year, and we have dealt with the financing of social services here many times in the spring, and we can still say that this is a problem that we can expect again for next year - so just as long as the novel is not really here and we can't discuss it, so nothing major will change in the care allowance, because this is what the Ministry makes it conditional on. And really experience from the last parliamentary term, when the amendment was also one of Mrs Marksová' main priorities, so I think that we can all easily remember how it turned out, and that it did not turn out as we would need it, as it would be necessary for all those concerned here. And that these are indeed hundreds of thousands of people in the Czech Republic, I hope I do not have to stress that. So I will take the liberty now that I am standing here to present the motion for a resolution and then, in a similar debate, just to sign up for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u43	I would, if I may, therefore, open up a detailed debate, rapporteur, and you can make a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u44	This is settled correctly under the Rules of Procedure. I would like your attention towards a resolution that would be two points, and I would like to vote on each point separately, because I am aware that it might be problematic for someone to vote in favour of the whole. First: "The Chamber of Deputies notes the report by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová on the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 416 on the valorisation of the contribution to care." And item number two: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that it considers the implementation of resolution 416 insufficient, and asks the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to speed up the debate on the introduction of valorisation within the Ministry." I think it's correct that it's not much in this case or offensive. I think it's reflected in the debate that was very sophisticated here. Thank you for that. Thank you in advance for supporting the two points in this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u45	Thank you. With a factual remark in the context of a detailed debate, Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u46	Hello. I do not know whether this is factual or how it is being done in this case, but I would like to ask for a split vote on these two points. [[Voices from the O.R.: It's been designed.]] I couldn't hear it in the noise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-001-315.u47	Yes, the same procedural proposal has been made since the rapporteur. We will vote each item of the resolution separately. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. Is there an interest in the final word, Madame? There's no interest in the final word. [[The chairman is gonging.]] We will therefore vote on the motion for a resolution. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. At the same time, I'm going to check you all out and apply for re-entry. First, we will vote on point No. 1, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the report by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová on the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 416 in the matter of valorisation of the care allowance." I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution. Who's against it? In the vote serial number 191 entered 174, for 170, against no one. This part of the resolution has been adopted. We will also vote on paragraph 2, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that it considers the implementation of resolution No. 416 for insufficient, and asks the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to speed up the debate on the introduction of valorisation within the Ministry." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote serial number 192 entered 176, for 80, against 10. This proposal was not adopted. I am therefore of the opinion that the motion for a resolution was in point No. 1 accepted. Thank you and end this point. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
