ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-006-301.u1	301. The draft law amending Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care and on the Amendment of Certain Related Laws (veterinary Act), as amended, and other related Laws /Departmental Document 435/ - Returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 435. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Karel Kratochvíle among us, a good day, and I ask that Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman speak on behalf of the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution and the amendments tabled. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-006-301.u2	Good evening again. Mr President, Madam Members, let me just remind you of the essential points relating to the draft amendment to Act No.166/1999 Coll. on Veterinary Care. The submitted amendment adapts the European Union regulation on official controls introducing new legislation on official controls in the field of veterinary care. A number of amendments were adopted during the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, one of which was also a proposal concerning the education of veterinary surgeons, which was conceived and subsequently adopted without prior consultation with the State Veterinary Administration. The bill was subsequently discussed on 4 December by the Senate, which decided by its resolution to return the bill to the Chamber of Deputies with the amendment repealing the said provision concerning the training of private veterinary surgeons. The draft law was to take effect on 14 December 2019 in accordance with the requirements of the Union law, which is the time limit necessary for the adaptation of the regulation on official controls. In this context, we are interested in adopting the proposed amendment as quickly as possible. In the absence of an amendment to the veterinary legislation, there would be a risk that the State Veterinary Administration will not be entitled to take the measures provided for in the regulation on official controls for all the competent authorities of the Member States, and therefore, please approve in the version of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-006-301.u3	Now I ask Senator Kratochvíle to take the floor. Otherwise, I will just remind you, because I did not repeat it, the proposal of Mr Pavel Kováčik. He said we were done after paragraph 301. That was said here, however, and we voted on it after paragraph 301. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-006-301.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, the bill amending Act No. 166/1996 Coll., on Veterinary Care and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, the Veterinary Law, as amended, and other related acts discussed by the Senate at its 13th meeting on 4 December this year and by its 271th resolution returned it back to the Chamber of Deputies with a total of four amendments. The reason behind the Senate's adoption of amendments is to try to improve this amendment. Let me briefly sum up all the amendments adopted by the Senate. Amendment to the Senate number one proposes This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the number 1 point 115 completely delete, i.e. in Section 59, delete by the petitioner proposed, newly supplemented paragraphs 8 and 9, which are: "8. A university carrying out an accredited study programme in the field of veterinary medicine or veterinary hygiene organises studies for veterinarians active in clinical veterinary medicine, which takes place in two parts: (a) practical; [[degree I clinical education, to obtain the designation of a practical veterinarian for the diseases of the relevant group of animal species]] (b) specialised. [[clinical education II. Grades to obtain the designation of a veterinarian specialist for diseases of the relevant group of animal species]] 9. The details shall be laid down by the Ministry by means of implementing legislation.' The Senate considers this supplemented adjustment to be unnecessary, in no way related to the subject matter of the regulation of the veterinary law, which otherwise lays down qualification conditions only as a condition for the performance of certain professional activities. It is only an offer of one specific educational institution for a planned postgraduate training for private veterinarians. The proposal also does not respect the requirements of Section 60 of Law No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions, which allows the University to offer lifelong education to both professional and public by internal regulations of the university, not by law. Nor can the proposal be accepted in the light of European legislation on the conditions laid down for the pursuit of the profession. The amendment of the Senate two is only a related legislative technical regulation - renumbering points. Amendment number three aims to ensure the correction of the legislative technical error contained in the amendment, namely the proposed item number 12, which reads: "In Section 4 at the end of paragraph 7, the sentence is added: The breeder is obliged to report to the Central Veterinary Administration of the State Veterinary Administration in writing or through the information system of the State Veterinary Administration the data provided for by the Implementing Regulation'. [[hereinafter referred to as "Central Veterinary Administration']] [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Unfortunately, it is not within this provision of Section 78 of the Veterinary Act which empowers the Ministry of Agriculture to issue implementing legislation, i.e. it is true that since 1 January 2022 the breeder would be obliged to report to the Central Veterinary Administration of the State Veterinary Administration in writing or through the information system of the State Veterinary Administration the data provided for by the Implementing Regulation, but this would not have been issued at all because there is no legal authorisation for the Ministry to issue it. The breeder should have nothing to report. The amendment of the Senate number four only compares the proposed effectiveness of the correction of the legislative technical errors also for 2022. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my conviction that the Chamber of Deputies will consider the amendments to the Senate to be beneficial and approve the bill tabled in the wording of the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-006-301.u5	I am now asking whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Pavel Kováčik, wants to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate. There is no interest, so I am opening the debate and I have signed up for Mr Radek Holomčík's general debate, followed by the President of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš club. But he's excused, so I'm gonna put it away, and please, Mr. Ambassador, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-006-301.u6	Thank you for the floor, I'll be very brief. I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to support the Senate amendment. The MP version of the amendment to the veterinary law is good. There are a number of things that are really well done, and there are things in it that we need to approve, or we will get into partial problems, and the Minister spoke about it. Unfortunately, we also got there in such an unfortunate way, a point concerning the professional training of veterinarians, which in practice is unlikely to help anything, only complicates the life of veterinarians, who are already so few. The Veterinary Administration does not agree with this, the Chamber does not agree with this, and this change does not belong to the Veterinary Act but to the Veterinary Chamber Act. So please, ladies and gentlemen, let's support the Senate version. It would be a shame if the rest fell under the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-006-301.u7	I will now look around to see if anyone else is reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the debate. I wonder if the Minister and the Senator are interested in the final word. You're not interested. The Minister is not interested either. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Acts, pursuant to House Press 435/5, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 435/6.' [[Veterinary law]] Did I hear there's a check-out request? Yes, there's an application for check-out, I'll check you all out. Please log in with your voting cards again. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 368, 163 Members entered. For 73, against 46. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, while pointing out that the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Acts, as amended, in the version in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to the Parliamentary Press 435/5." [[Veterinary law]] I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 369, 168 Members entered. For 122, versus 1. I state that we have adopted the bill. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, have a nice evening, and I will see you tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning.
