ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-008-094.u1	94. Proposal by Members of Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Daniel Pawlas, Pavel Kováčik and Stanislav Grospič to issue a law amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended /house print 352 - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 352/1. I ask that Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová make a proposal for the appellants. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-008-094.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended. It is a small change in content, but we think that this is, above all, an important change in the process and, of course, a systemic change that would bring some order and, above all, predictability into this area. We change § 3c when we speak that the assessment basis for insurance premiums paid by the State for the person for whom, under the special legislation, the State is the payer of insurance premiums is 25 per cent of the average wage for the second quarter of the previous calendar year. And the calculated amount is rounded up to the whole crown. I would like to say that the current situation is that the assessment basis for insurance premiums paid by the State for the person for whom the State is the payer of insurance under the special legislation is laid down in Section 3c of Act No. 592/1992 Coll. The amount of the assessment base referred to here may be amended by the Government by its regulation by 30 June each year, with effect from 1 January of the following year. With effect from 1 January 2018, the Government Decree No. 140/2017 Sb. sets out the assessment basis for insurance premiums paid by the State to the person for whom the insured State is the payer, in the amount of CZK 7 177 per calendar month. The insurance calculated from this assessment base is CZK 969 per month. The amendment to the Public Health Insurance Insurance Act published in the Collection of Laws on 19 September 2017 provides with effect from 1 January 2017. 1. 2019 assessment basis for payment of insurance premiums by the state of CZK 7 540. The insurance from this amount is CZK 1 018. With effect from 1. 1. 2020 then sets the basis for payment of insurance premiums by the state of CZK 7 903 and the amount of insurance premiums from this amount is CZK 1 067. Possibility of adjustment always through government regulations with effect to 1. 1. the following calendar year is a design which allows the assessment base of state insured persons to be changed depending on current developments. The government is therefore to take into account, in its decision-making, such dynamically evolving values as the development of an average wage or the possibility of a public health insurance system, which does not allow for a flexible change in the legal framework, and therefore a solution has been chosen in the form of a government regulation. I would like to point out that this situation has, in the long term, brought an essential element of instability into the public health insurance system. There is no fixed rule for calculating the income of this system for the largest number of insured persons. Changes to this assessment base are subject to current pressures, state and distribution of political forces. At the same time, there is a paradoxical situation where, while the level of the assessment base for state insured persons is laid down by law, the current amount is subject to monitoring by the Government's regulation, i.e. a text of lower legal force. In the past, the amount of the assessment base for the persons for whom the insurance payer is a State was fixed as a percentage of the minimum wage, a fixed amount without the possibility of valorisation by decree, a fixed amount with the possibility of valorisation by decree or a percentage of the so-called "Minimum wage'. the general assessment base established by the Government Regulation for pension insurance purposes. Our intention is for the proposed amendment to remedy the abovementioned shortcomings of the current legislation. The proposed method is historically experienced in the Czech Republic. From 2006 to 2009, the assessment base was established as 25 per cent of the general assessment base established by the Government Decree for pension insurance purposes for the calendar year preceding the calendar year for which the assessment base was collected. It should bring about a transparent and, above all, foreseeable development of the amount of insurance premiums paid by the State for a group of state insured persons. At the same time, the principle is firmly established in this way, which should prevent uncontrollable and, in principle, difficult to influence the opening of scissors between state contributions and other groups of insured persons. [[15.00 hours]] Furthermore, let me also be informed in the context of the explanatory report of the Government's position, where our proposal repeals in Article 2 and Government Decree 158, which has already been legally repealed, that means that we, too, are prepared, of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and legislation, to prepare a comprehensive amendment, which will, in turn, be very small in terms of content, which would, I think, remove minor deficiency and would really allow for the system change that we have been calling for in the Czech Republic for a really long time. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-008-094.u3	And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Karla Maříková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-008-094.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, the method of calculating the premium base for insured persons is proposed, for which insurance premiums are paid by the State through the State budget under Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance. In particular, it is proposed that the basis for calculating this premium should be 25 per cent of the average wage. The similar system in the Czech Republic operated between 2006 and 2009. The proposed change makes it possible to change the assessment base of state insured persons depending on the current development of the average wage. The proposed amendment thus removes the schizophrenic situation introduced by effective legislation, where the level of assessment base for state insured persons is currently laid down by law, but the current amount is dependent on the Government's regulation as a legal act. From this point of view, the proposed change in the method of calculating the assessment base in question brings stability elements, not only in legal terms but also in practical terms, in particular in the form of transparency and predictability of insurance premiums for insured persons, for which insurance premiums are paid by the State through the State budget. The proposed amendment is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and does not affect the law of the European Union and I recommend it to be discussed in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-008-094.u5	Thank you. I will now start a general debate. I don't have an electronic application for the general debate here, so I'll look around the hall. I also see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for any final words. Neither the plaintiff nor the rapporteur are interested. I do not have proposals for repayment and rejection, which is why we will now consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I don't see any motion, so we'll proceed to the vote. I'm gonna sing. I shall call the Members to the Chamber. I think we can proceed to the vote. I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Whoever agrees, press "for." Who's against it? Vote number 990. Registered 181 Members, for 139, versus zero. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering this proposal to the next committee, and I am asking if anyone has a proposal on the commandment of the next committee or committees to the commandment. Mr. Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-008-094.u6	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President. Given that this has significant budgetary implications, although not directly to the state budget, but nevertheless the public health insurance is closely linked to it, I suggest that the Committee be ordered to the budgetary committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-008-094.u7	The Committee on Budgets. I'll see if there's another suggestion. I don't see another suggestion. We will take the vote. We will vote on whether you agree that the proposal should also be directed to the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 991. Registered 181 Members, for 52, against 22. The motion has been rejected, and I am done discussing this proposal. We will now proceed to the next proposal and start with the so-called opposition window, where we will first proceed in the order of size of the parliamentary clubs to discuss opposition bills. So now we have the first ODS proposal. This is about
