ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u1	40. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /German press 452/ - first reading We interrupted the item in the first reading on Wednesday 24. 4. and I interrupted it during Mr Ferjenčík's speech. We interrupted the debate on this point on Wednesday, as I said, in the general debate. I ask that Mr Roman Sklenák take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, please, and rapporteur for the first reading. We should therefore continue the debate now, when Mr Ferjenčík was interrupted. Before I give him the floor, Mr Klaus and Mrs Majerová apologize from 13.15 until the end of the negotiations for reasons of work. Mr Sklenák is present. I ask Mr Ferjenčík to say if he wants to continue his speech. Looks like it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I did not have time to finish my contribution at the last meeting, and there was already quite a lot of noise in the hall, as the 19th hour was approaching, so I would just like to repeat my most important question to the Minister, and I would like to ask if she could answer the question in the debate, so that we can comment on this, if necessary. The House adopted a resolution which states that the system of financing pensions primarily from labour taxation is unsustainable in the long term, and asks the government to propose a way to resolve this problem by the end of this year, because, in the long term, when the ratio of the number of workers and the number of pensioners changes significantly, which awaits us sometime between 2030 and 2060, it cannot be expected that this system will be withdrawn only from social insurance. And I would welcome it if the Minister, with the same vigor that increases pensions, was also looking for income to secure pensions for future generations, because we are now concerned that this increase should not be at the expense of people who are now, for example, 30 years old. So I would like to ask you about the implementation of this resolution, what results you already have on this matter and what you will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u3	Thank you. Mr Chvojka, who I do not see here at the moment, was also entered in the debate with priority rights, but I assume that this was about something else, so the application falls due to absence. And now, please, Mrs Golasowská, who is duly enrolled in the debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a lovely Friday morning. Let me also make a brief comment on the proposal for this amendment for the KDU-ČSL club. Of course, KDU-ČSL will support this proposal, because we also see that it is very important for pensioners to be more financially valued, although we think that at this time, when we propose an increase in pensions of 900 crowns, we see this as a partial proposal. Perhaps the pensioners themselves have already found during business visits that food prices are rising, energy providers also report an increase in energy, so in fact this proposal will not benefit their financial revenues, but will copy inflation. I would also like to say that last year we tabled several amendments concerning widowed women, the continuance of widow's pensions and disability pensions, also related to increasing the pensions of mothers who raised children, early retirement for women according to the number of children raised and early retirement for demanding professions. However, these amendments have actually been swept off the table with the fact that they are partial proposals and that the Ministry or Government will prepare a comprehensive amendment to pension insurance. Which hasn't happened until today. And I join in with the questions that have already been raised here - whether the Ministry has a plan for long-term sustainability of the pension system prepared and whether it will address all the groups I have listed here and whether it will address them in the foreseeable future. I know that there is currently a committee on fair pensions, which I am also a member of, but I would like to see if the Ministry has any deadlines prepared at least within the foreseeable horizon of this parliamentary term. Because time is running out and, of course, pensioners, and especially those vulnerable groups I've named here, disabled, widowed, mothers who raised children, are actually waiting to see how we stand up to it and what proposals we come up with and whether we can help them improve their situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u5	I, too, thank you, and Mr Bláha is next in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I have listened carefully to the lamentations of the majority of the opposition for two days about how the government does nothing, how it does not do, how it does not plan, and therefore I have made a few comments and, on the basis of these remarks, I would like to describe today's situation, assess the situation. I would just like to point out that I do not wish to insult, tarnish or ridicule anyone, as I am often presented to me. I just really want to document today's situation. A number of comments were made here on the basis of an increase in pensions, and I have to agree with a number of comments. Yes, we need pension reform, but first of all, I would say that we cannot assign the creation of pension reform to someone, say, "Make pension reform!" It's like you came to the inventor and said, "Create a light bulb!" Maybe we shouldn't have her tonight. That's just the way it is. Creating something that's not in my heart or that I never cared about isn't a snap of my fingers. And I would just like to add the following: Yes, we are eating the state budget. Yes, we've got a huge bureaucracy. Yes, the state, the authorities, the cities don't operate according to the principles of the right economy. Yes, we're not dealing with the future in context. Yes, there is a need to make a change and a pension reform. Yes, our targets are short-term. And I could go on like this. [[10.00 hours]] But we have to say the most important thing: who's to blame. I forgot my phone, and if you don't mind, I'll just take it out of my head. [[A fellow MP brought his cell phone.]] We certainly can't blame the last government or the last governments for this, and we can't blame specific people for it, because from the beginning of the revolution when the first government came in, just think about what kind of people it was composed of. This is how we could proceed with those times. And I remember that some 15 years ago I heard "there is a need to do pension reform," even from Mr Kalousek's mouth, and that he would certainly do that, and it never happened. And again, let's think about who we thought was opening night here. We've had prognostics here, we've had monument care workers here, we've had drivers here, we've had major economists or people who run a bank, designers, physicists, we've even had one prime minister who never worked. And so believe that the current prime minister at least knows how hard it is to create a crown before he can put himself in. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] So I would blame everyone who's been here today, or in the last 30 years, but also for us Members. Does anyone care in detail about the state budgets, the budgets of individual authorities? Have any of us requested the procreating of the individual items that are within the budgets? Only at the budgets of the authorities doesn't drain 150 billion a year, so the resources are. When someone here said it before me, I think it was Prime Minister Špidla, there really are resources, they're in budgets, they're in the purchase of state services, because only if we averaged the purchase of services would we save half a billion. They're at state, county and city companies. They're saying we can't share services. In every institution, in every office, we have our payroll departments, we have such a rampant bureaucracy that when you talk to individual representatives of authorities and institutions, they tell you that they spend 75 percent of their time answering questions from their colleagues from other ministries and from other authorities. That's embarrassing, isn't it? [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] We can't unify grant titles, health care - we could talk about that for another two hours. Buying energy, not shopping centrally, everyone shopping according to their own. The pension reform is clear to us. 6,500 municipalities. If you think about the 6,500 municipalities coming up with 6,500 applications for a grant title, we just have a huge pile of money hanging there that if we could hand it over to the regions to run the projects, we'd save money. Merge projects. Flats and housing subsidies, that's another chapter, I've already talked about it. And then there's the black-and-grey economy and the whole execution thing. There's another 100 billion. And believe that there is at least another 50 percent of our GDP in the gray economy. When you're talking to the Supreme Audit Office or the people in charge of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, they'll confirm in private that at least 50 percent of the economy is in the grey zone. But we also have 7 710 operating systems, and every year 10,5 billion will fall on them. There's no point in divorcing schools. We have an incredibly rampant resortism here, so individual ministries and authorities are not working together on visions, but again - again, I would like to remind you that this is not the fault of today's government, neither the previous one, nor the previous one, everyone is to blame. If I had to take over a company like this, like the state, I'd shut it down first, so I could run it again, because it's really hard to redo a firm that's so rigid and that doesn't work, a bubble like our state. And believe that we do not contribute to this either, because if there are people working in economic or other committees, budget and others who do not know in life how the crown must be earned first, so that it can then be allocated, it is logical. They've always been used to just asking, give us, but that's just not how it works. I am in favour of pension reform, I say quite frankly that I have been thinking about it for a long time. I have an idea how it should work, but one person can't do it, it should be on the basis of the agreement of all the political parties, otherwise it will turn out that once the new government is here, it will be thrown off the table and it will be nothing. So I'm just gonna read my notes here: we've got the resources, we know who's responsible, we've already seen visions for more years, we all have to dream and we have to come here with them in plenary and talk about them. Prime Minister, I was talking about those that we had here, that some of us haven't even worked in life. I would like to remind you of one fundamental thing. The money we can distribute is made by companies here, and a lot of parties here are swaying by wanting to help companies, businessmen, craftsmen. And the most interesting thing is that now the EET case runs and all associations except one, all associations except one, means that all representatives of entrepreneurs, companies and businessmen support EET. But unfortunately, those who scream the most that they want companies, businessmen who employ and who just create the economy, they want to cancel the EET. So do you really want to help entrepreneurs, businessmen, or do you just want to help those who rob us, work black, work black? This is important because the economy, and, in turn, the money for pension reform, is made up of social and health workers. And without the honest employees who are going to take care of it, we could never do a pension reform. So think about whether you really want to help this situation, or whether you just want to beat straw into the void here and bring up all sorts of arguments that you can't figure out what EET is for and what it should be for and what it could be for in the future, because I will personally promote that whoever has an EET doesn't have to make any tax returns. And believe that it will work - we have all the data, we have VAT reports, we have another pile of reports, we have social and health charges, so all the electronic data, so why should we still do tax returns? [[10.10 hours]] So it's just to the edge, when you've been here for two whole days talking about what our government should be doing, by the way, government parties. It's up to all of you. To all of us. And it's only about if you want to discuss it. And just to conclude, a year and a half ago, I went around all of you, and most of all I got a statement from one of you who said, "Oh, look, we're not at all interested in working with you, we're not interested in talking to you about how to do retirement reform, how to finance, how to do health care. [[The speaker looks at the right side of the hall where the opposition sits]] We're here to play the part of the opposition, so we'll do everything we can to make sure you don't do anything at all." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u7	Thank you. Have a good morning. Your performance raised four factual points. I will be the first to ask for Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's speech. Mr Černohorský, then Vice-President of the House of Pikal, and then Mr Bělobrádek, will be prepared. Mr Ferjenčík has a factual point. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think it is a great pity, which I certainly do not want to interfere with the YES movement in its personnel policy, that Mr Bláha has not nominated for the pension commission because it would be of great benefit, we could have had it resolved. But unfortunately, they put someone else there. I think you should reconsider. And then I wanted to ask Mr Bláha through Mr President only for the purposes of the minutes of this meeting when you said, yes, we are making a short-term decision, yes, something, and this is how you started your speech, only if it is written by capitals as a shortcut to your movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u9	Another point of fact, please, Mr Černohorský, and Vice-President of the House of Pikal will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u10	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Through the President to Mr Bláh. The government is supposed to prepare the pension reform because it has access to the numbers, so that officials and specialists can prepare the analyses that we may give them. That's why the opposition is pushing the government to make it harder to do it. Of course, we have no problem commenting on this and getting involved. But the support has to come from the government. Otherwise, you may know through Mr President that I respect you, I understand what you were going to say, but you mixed apples, pears again, and you added melons to it. For example, when you mentioned that the resources are, and you mentioned the city companies, I understand that the Finance Minister would have been thrilled if she could also reach into the city companies, but unfortunately in this case they are really separate, so it is not possible to draw where you want from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u11	I will now request the speech of Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal and Mr Bělobrádek, Mr Bauer and Mr Bláha, will be prepared. Vice-President, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd only have two small notes. I believe that the task of all of us is to prepare pension reform. However, it is not a task here in plenary, it is in the expert working groups. That's what I expected from the fair pensions committee. However, I heard here at the plenary that it was resigned. So in that case, I would turn my question to the Minister, how the commission progresses or does not progress in this, because I remember that some ten years ago my friends and I sometimes said that it doesn't matter how many pensions there are, that there will be no more pensions for us. And so far, so it seems. So if it ever changes. And the second point should be... What was she supposed to be going to do? I forgot it. I'm sorry. I'll remember the second note.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u13	Mr Bělobrádek will now prepare Mr Bauer. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u14	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I would also respond to Mr Bláha, because he existed in our coalition government. The Potůčkův committee. A great deal of work has indeed been done in this Potůčkův Pension Commission. What I don't understand is that the Minister doesn't really count on her conclusions at all, which I'm quite sorry, because, first of all, there has never been any mention of this committee, and basically some of the conclusions on which the agreement was made do not accept them. The second thing is that the YES movement, which was coalition in Sobotkův's government, was essentially very passive in Sobotkův's government and Potůčkův's commission. And maybe it would be good if you remembered these things a little bit, because I'm very skeptical of these conclusions, of these challenges. The experiment was here. You were part of a government coalition. But basically, you resigned to the agreement and basically rejected what the experts at Potůčkův's commission basically agreed that not only the consequences of the pension system and the consequences of how it evolves, but mainly the causes for the system to be reversed, need to be addressed. Just Bismarck couldn't count on people not wanting to have kids. And the situation is very serious, and unfortunately, you yourself have not been very constructive about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u15	I will now ask for Mr Jan Bauer's speech. Mr. Jiří Bláha and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will be ready again. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just a brief response to my colleague Jiří Bláha through Mr President. We have heard from your mouth a report on the state of the Union, a report on the state of the Czech Republic, and I must say that the criticism was absolutely overwhelming. There wouldn't be anything weird about that if it didn't sound from the mouth of a member of the current government party. However, I consider it appropriate to mention only one mention here concerning attempts at any reform or pension reform of the pension system in the Czech Republic. You know, you can criticize a thousand times the pension reform that the right-wing government has passed in the past, if it was well prepared, badly supported, not supported. But it was the only attempt so far in the Czech Republic to reform the pension system in some way in the Czech Republic. We can discuss whether it was prepared right or wrong. You guys canceled with a promise to come up with your own pension reform, and in five years, you did nothing at all. It's just that picture of you talking about the development, who is trying something and who is responsible for some things in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u17	Thank you. Now to the de facto Member, Mr Jiří Bláha. And so far, the last rehearsal, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u18	Let me get this straight. It wasn't criticism, but it was a state statement. I mean, if we're talking anywhere around the corner, or in private, we're not in front of a microphone, we're all saying it to each other, and we're saying it to each other all over the Republic, that we really have to do something about the situation that's going on today. And we all see it. As far as the question was concerned, as was meant to be, yes was meant as consent. So you can give your consent there instead. That means I agree that we could work differently. But I told you why. And those who listened so they understood that over the past 30 years we had turned the country upside down so that it would be best to abolish today's leadership, all the authorities, and start over. And believe me, it would be easier, because the way we've covered this whole thing with thousands and thousands of laws and teachings and all sorts of things... And as far as pension reform is concerned, really, believe that it cannot be determined: you will do it. You can't just do it. I can have paper for it, I can have a college degree, and I still can't put it together because I just don't have it in my heart. Maybe I didn't get the idea. And I've been waiting for the right idea for, like, three years at the firm. That's just the way it is. After three years, I realize, dude, excuse me, why didn't you do it three years ago? That's it. And only a jerk can't admit a mistake. And only an asshole can say that something doesn't work as it should.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u19	Now Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. Please, Vice-President, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u20	Thank you. I don't know if I can afford to perform after this rhetorically great performance. Anyway, I remembered that thing, and I wouldn't want to take it away from you. So, in Mr Bláha's original speech, through you, Mr President, something has been said about who is creating those values. And I wouldn't agree that companies are creating values. I think that the values that we can manage in our society and fund pensions and other things are created by work or exchange. Not only firms and employees do this, but self-employed people do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u21	Now I have two factual points here. It is Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, I will ask you to perform, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared. Madam, you have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u22	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, just as quickly as we can hear here that social democracy has done nothing to reform the pension system, it has said that it has done nothing to preserve pensions for the future. Social democracy has done its utmost to ensure that an ongoing pension system is maintained, which is the only one that actually guarantees pensions in long-term horizons, because the money is not lying anywhere, but is paid to people. First of all. And two. The fact that the Valorisation Mechanisms have changed means that today and on the basis of the Valorisation of pensioners will have increased pensions by a fixed amount, the Valorisation Amount of CZK 700, plus the contribution that goes to each pension as a symbol of solidarity and equalization of price levels, etc. Social democracy has done its utmost to ensure that pensioners in this country live a little dignifiedly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u23	Thank you. Before Mrs Kovářová arrives, I will read one apology. It is Mrs Majerová Zahradníková from today's meeting at 13.15 o'clock for work reasons. Mrs Kovářová, please, you have two minutes to make your point, and Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Bláha's speech through Mr President. You asked the rhetorical question of whether anyone cares about the items in the various ministries and whether they have been requested. I must say, Mr. Ambassador, this is the work of the opposition. And I don't think there's a single opposition club that wouldn't request these individual items, and that's also because we were saying what the resources are in the individual items of the various ministries. Opposite work, it's not just how you feel that Members are yelling something and all that. This is as hard work as the work of coalition MPs. And if you don't know anything about it, I think you might as well take a look at our club for a few weeks, how opposition MPs work. That's one thing. And the other thing. Then I'd have a question for the Minister. The pension committee is a committee on fair pensions, and today, President Stanjura asked the Committee on Budgets what the fair pensions are, so I hope the Commission will answer that. First of all. Secondly, in fact, this commission and the entire government and the entire Chamber of Deputies should not forget what pensions will look like in 15 years, as they actually say it will be a problem. So I would expect that the second task, apart from the fair pensions and their definition, will be the way in which pensions for the next generation will be secured, because we must also not forget them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u25	Thank you. Mr Miroslav Kalousek will now appear, and since you are on a factual basis, we also have a priority right here. Either you take a factual... so factual, because I still have you for the general debate. If you were alone, it would be universal, but the chairman of the ODS club jumped in. Please, so de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u26	Thank you. I'll just respond to my two previous speakers. Firstly, it is a proud statement that social democracy has advocated the preservation of an ongoing pillar. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1990, since I've been watching public budgets, no one has ever proposed and no one has seriously meant the abolition of the ongoing pillar. All proposals for all reform actions have always counted on the ongoing pillar as a key instrument for the pension system. Only some of us claim - and I believe that they are right - that it is not enough in itself and that it must be modified to ensure decent pensions in 40, 50 years. But fighting in the breasts that I've preserved the first pillar is incredible manipulation. No one ever wanted to cancel it. Second point - Mr Bláh. I'm always impressed when government MPs say how the opposition doesn't want to cooperate, how he only wants to play an opposition role, but let's see what it really looks like. We said yesterday, very kindly and not emotionally, let's discuss the sustainability of public budgets. Let us discuss how to adjust the effectiveness of subsidies so that they are not supported by the greatest at the expense of small and medium-sized ones. Let's talk about the competitiveness of the state administration, which the government itself says in its documents is beneath the dog. We could have discussed all this yesterday, looking for common ground. And what did you do? You said no, we don't want to talk about it with you. That's actually how it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u27	Thank you. Now, with priority right, President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, so far the second-to-last enrollment, because we still have a second-to-last appointment to the General Member of Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u28	Thank you for the floor. First, a comment on Mrs Gajdůšková's speech. As a programmer who likes logic and mathematics, I mean, they can pay two statements at the same time. And at this point, it's true. The first statement - social democracy has done nothing for pension reform - is valid; and, without a doubt, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's statement - social democracy has done as much as it can. Those statements just don't rule out. They can both pay, and we don't have to argue which one they pay. And now for pension reform. I'm glad to see the Secretary of State in the House sometimes. I'm already intrigued by the name of the commission, in itself. As a working tool, having a committee with 50 members means that I do not want any result, because there is no real outcome at 50. But the commission is called 'for fair pensions', and I think that in order to succeed in this part-time task, we should first agree on the definition of what a fair pension is. If we agree on it, then we can look for tools to achieve that goal. And I have not yet heard what a fair pension is, how much solidarity is supposed to be and how much merit is supposed to be. After all, these two parameters determine how pensions are perceived, how they are perceived, whether they are fair or not. Second point. The state doesn't pay any pensions. The state doesn't pay any pensions, they're paid by taxpayers, especially the middle class. They are paid in their social security, part of which is paid on pension, and paid by employers, social insurance for their employees, part of which, a significant part, goes on pension. At the same time, the same employees, employers, but above all the middle class according to the amount of contributions, also pay 75 percent of public health insurance. And then we have to ask what pension will be for this middle class if they retire. If it's those who have been carrying on their shoulders for decades, both in public health insurance and in the pension system. And when you look at those tables - and there's no time to demonstrate them here at the Chamber of Deputies plenary - you see that from a certain income group the impact - the impact - is too big. The sudden decline in income is too big. And I think that's unfair, and let's talk about what we can do about it. [[10.30 hours]] The third point is that when we talk about pension reform, we must say, at least we, the citizens of the Democrats, will say, because it is true that no reform will concern existing pensioners or those who will retire in about the next 15 years. Because they are no longer able to adapt to new conditions and it would be unfair to them again. So, speaking of pension reform, we'd have 40s and younger. They call themselves a sandwich generation, and it means they care about both their children and their parents. And since they are the ones who carry on their shoulders the largest share of payments to the pension system of the ongoing and public health system, they also expect some services from the state. And these people are very well aware that they are solidarity and that part of their income and contributions are solidly given to secure their fellow citizens. And let us talk about a few basically simple measures that we could take with a strong majority in the Chamber of Deputies. The first, which we propose in the long term, that each pensioner, which is the significant part of social security, better said pension tax or insurance tax, because it is not insurance, these are taxes so that he can contribute one percent, one percentage point if he wants to, to the pension of his parents or grandparents. I think it will strengthen family cohesion. The second point about what we could do is link the debate on pension reform with national policy. It can't be pulled away. It can't be pulled away! Madam Secretary, I'm not saying you don't have the same reasoning. Well, I'd beg if you didn't have to comment right away. This is a general approach that, in our view, we must combine a pro-family policy and a debate on changing pensions that will provide solid pensions for 40 people and younger people. Since every reform for these people today will bear some costs at the best working age and younger, we propose that we create a fund of strategic reserves to direct extraordinary returns from privatization or income from dividends from state-owned enterprises, not on the current spending of the state budget, as it did this year. And if we want to help that generation of 40s, we can think about new deductible items for this generation in tax returns. And without a doubt, there could be an amount that they spend, for example, on the social or health services of their parents or grandparents. We'd be able to bring more private money into that care system. And we're certainly watching a debate about the missing two billion in social services, but I don't want to talk about that today. Another change we could make and agree on is a deductible item for the acquisition of housing. Today it's only for the first place. However, if a family decides to buy a home, an apartment or a family home for their children, it can no longer use that amount as a deductible item at that time. And now I'm not saying that we're going to increase the total deductible item of 300,000, but let's talk about it. These are all tools to bring more private money into the system, whether social services or pension systems, when they're actually private there, just the state is redistributing them. Private companies, private or public employees, also public institutions pay social security, those who produce money for the pension system. We are prepared for such a debate, we are ready to conduct it, and my colleague, Mr Bauer, has already said so here, our experience, and I would say expensively politically paid, is that a change in the pension system must be adopted by a larger majority than the government. I'd leave the illusion that everyone has to agree on it. That's an illusion, and if anyone insists that we all agree on changes to the pension system, he says at the same time: I don't want any change. But it should be a distinct majority of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, a distinct majority, and now I don't want to say whether constitutional, but distinctive, so that it doesn't threaten that after the elections, when left and right governments change there and back to change pension systems. Because such a change - that's why I was talking about it not going to apply to those who will retire in the next 15 years, because such a change in the pension system is long-term, at first there will be only costs, so we want the fund of strategic reserves, and the proceeds can show up, or the change can turn out in 15, 20, 25 years. I know it's often difficult, when we're limited by the election period, we're almost halfway through the parliamentary term. Yesterday I learned that every criticism of the government is because there are European elections. But then we could never criticize the government. This year there are European elections, next year there are regional and Senate elections, two years from now there are House elections, so when can we actually criticize the government? But here I do not take a critical view, perhaps a bit towards the Social Democrats, but rather a handshake, with an offer to debate even after the experience, that the small majority simply is not enough and that it simply does not benefit the stability of the system. And you can trust us or not, if we make one mistake, we won't repeat it again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u29	We now have two factual points, so Mr Václav Votava, then Mr Jan Volný will be prepared and then with priority rights Mr Bartošek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I do not wish to respond to Mr Stanjura, but to Mr Kalousek, who is just leaving. He was talking here - through you, of course - about the fact that they never wanted to cancel the first ongoing pension pillar. Yes, my colleague, that may be true, but you wanted to weaken him considerably. Let's remember, the second pillar weakened the ongoing pillar. And that the second pillar was set senselessly, so I think you already think, and you know, at the moment, as it was done. Eventually he went on his own demise, because he had very few people who could enter it, because of course he was extremely disadvantageous to people. I said he was voluntary, yes, because he could have entered it, but he couldn't have gotten off. So that's how it was set up. It was set up for people with above-standard income and was not guaranteed by the state. Maybe it was a good business for some companies. So I just wanted so much to remind my colleague Kalousek about the ongoing pillar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u31	Now another factual comment by Jan Volný, so far the last. So it's your two minutes. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, my colleague, I also wanted, through the President, to Mr Kalousek. I wanted to point out here how subjective it is to see what a debate is, what a debate is. Because if he implied that they wanted to discuss, debate last night, I'll describe how it went yesterday. For the first two hours, all of the opposition, who had priority rights, brazenly yelled at this government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, and it didn't look like it was a handful to discuss, and when, after two hours, the secretary of thoughtful listening and writing for half an hour, it was a matter of fact, there may have been ten people sitting here on the right side, so I didn't touch the pirates, they sat there, but otherwise there was almost nobody sitting here. After half an hour of her performance, they've been running around for as long as she talks, and I haven't noticed that the next time she's finished, she'll start discussing it again, her opinions, on the contrary, it was called a propaganda nonsense speech. So I wanted to ask through Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, what he meant yesterday they wanted to discuss and debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u33	There. Now I have four factual points, so Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, again Mr Miroslav Kalousek, who, by the way, is also enrolled in a proper debate. Well, Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u34	It's just a factual remark to my predecessor to correct the foreman's detail. Before the speech, the Minister did not speak to all members of the opposition with priority rights, only five political party chairmen, not all with priority rights. With priority rights, there are a lot more people there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u35	And since the debate is getting longer, I've accumulated apologies here, so I'm gonna read them now because there's a lot of them. Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes for working reasons for the whole day. Mrs Karla Maříková for work reasons... Sorry. Mr. MP... [[to the post office. He gave it to him.]] Ambassador, Mrs Karla Maříková excuses you for a professional reason, so I don't think that's gonna work, so you can apologize yourself. If you're willing to write this down for me, I'll put it down. [[10.40 hours]] Otherwise, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk apologises between 10:00 and 14:30 for family reasons. Mr. Petr Vrána apologizes between 10 and 14 o'clock for reasons of work, or your assistant should send it here, please. Mr Jaroslav Foldyna also apologizes from 10.30 to the end of the day for working reasons, and Mr Tomio Okamura apologises from 11.00 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you'll send it in later. And now we're going to go back to the actual notes. So I'm going to ask Mrs. Alena Gajdůšková to perform. Madam, your two minutes. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared, followed by Mr. Jan Skopeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must clarify my statement, given how we have been blamed as a social democracy by Mr. Chairman of ODS Stanjura through Mr. President. Social democracy has done its utmost for the dignified lives of people in this country, seniors and pensioners especially, starting with valorisation mechanisms, raising pensions, raising salaries, etc. Unlike the ODS governments, which did not raise pensions unless they reduced them and reduced many disability pensions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u37	I will now ask for Mr Miroslav Kalousek's speech on a factual point and Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would like to reply to Mr Volný, who asked me directly why we did not respond in the debate to Minister Schillerová. We really do not imagine a fair discussion in such a way that you will not allow it at all and only those with priority rights can speak. This really is not a fair discussion of the Chamber of Deputies. And you didn't let that happen last night. You obviously knew why. But you certainly can't say right now that we didn't want to discuss it because the debate wasn't allowed. One comment on the President. I, of course, willingly put Mr Stanjura in front of me with priority rights, as I will patiently release President Bartošek with priority rights. I'd just like to point out, please, that I have the right of priority, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u39	Thank you. That's right, but you signed up for me with a written application and I didn't register that you're applying with a priority right. So there are two options, and since you didn't say that with priority rights, I have a written application from you, that's why I didn't include you in the priority rights. So, Ambassador, I want to ask you, shall I take that as a priority claim? So, after Mr Bartošek, when the factual point comes, with priority rights, yes. Great. Just so we're clear. There was no intention. I know exactly what I'm doing. Mr Jan Skopeček has two minutes in fact and then Mr Klaus is applying to the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u40	Thank you very much. I also want to respond to a fellow Member of the Volný Member through the President. Mr. Ambassador, I was very looking forward to discussing this with Minister Schillerová. I was prepared for it, equipped with a lot of data to show how the Ministry would deal with public finance imbalances, how the budget is currently developing badly. Unfortunately, I didn't get a word in your voice yesterday. So I find your comment absolutely incredible. One day after you didn't vote for the program, the next day I blame people who couldn't get off because they didn't perform and comment on the Minister. Just as I find it an incredible comment about the number of Members in the right part of the spectrum when neither was the Prime Minister and there was a government torso left. I really think your performance is incredible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u41	I will now request a speech to Mr Klaus in fact. In the meantime, I'll read an apology. Yes, Mr Zdeněk Podal today apologizes from 12 o'clock to the end of the day. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u42	Hello. I'd just like to ask, it's Friday, if you'd care to attend to the substance of the matter, and that's pensions. I'm really tired of hearing the remorse of social democracy and ODS, of what anyone has done for the elderly, or of who has or does not have a preferential right, with forgiveness. Only my challenge is whether we could pursue the pensions in a meritorial way, because the public resources you're doing are being wasted is, of course, huge, but the only place where it belongs is really giving it to the pensioners who worked for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u43	Mr Bartošek will now have priority rights and Mr Kalousek will be prepared. So far, the last two logged in. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u44	Thank you for the floor. To the Free Member, by your means. Mr. Ambassador, I asked a number of questions yesterday, I asked them politely, and I didn't get an answer. For example, I asked when the National Budget Board talks about the fact that around 2068, even if it is far, if we do not change the structure of public finances, it will be debt, thanks to pensions, about 230 percent of GDP. That's what I asked. For example, I asked what kind of government is taking steps in pension reform so that we can finance public finances for the future. There is one thing that needs to be realized, and the answer is quite simple. If the pension system, which is based on the first interim pillar, remains set as it is, we will have to look for resources in the future. Money to pay for it. As a standard, the company had enough children, future taxpayers, and thanks to its ongoing pillar, pensions were paid to those who were older and who worked for the company. And society was giving it back to them in the form of pensions. We need to realize that when we take money out for health and social insurance, people who work don't pay their own pensions, but they take money out for pensions of those who are already retired. So it's not about prepaid pensions, it's about paying pensions or paying pensions for people who are retired. And if there aren't enough children like there aren't, then there won't be enough resources to fund those pensions in the long run. Demographically, we're in very bad shape. And if pension reform doesn't connect with a number of strong, economically strong family measures, it doesn't stand a chance of success. Because a child in the family - there's no way there's a social problem. It is not possible if families have a child, they have become economically poor. The KDU-ČSL policy is long-term focused on the environment. We believe that families who decide or partners who choose to have a child should also be motivated economically. It is not possible for the family to decide whether to wear shoes, whether to send the children to the people, or whether to go to the mountains. We believe that people who go to work should be rewarded enough not to have to deal with this. And that's where my next question goes. What this government is doing to effectively address the topic called. Working poverty? I'm afraid nothing. The only meaningful policy in this area is for people who have or have children to reduce their contributions. And to be motivated, that where there is one child in the family, they wanted to have two children and two children where there are two children to have three children. There was always one child for a mother, one for a father, and one for a republic. I think we should go back to this model where possible. And there's one thing that needs to be realized. A number of pro-family measures were taken and implemented at the time when KDU-ČSL was part of the coalition. It should be said that the KDU-ČSL programme has been implemented in this respect. And what I'm interested in is what the government really comes up with and where it gets pension money in a longer term than one term. Given that the current coalition has said that it will resign from pension reform and that it will only make partial changes, the partial steps of this system, I see this as a failure of social democracy, but also as a failure of the entire coalition. If there is no long-term plan, and I believe that, as the National Budget Board speaks, we are roughly at a turning point at the moment. We really need to take a number of pro-family measures. [[10.50 hours]] And another thing - we have to create a system, with which comes e.g. KDU-ČSL to ensure that women who have children are also bonified in retirement. The folklore's suggestion that a retired woman should get 500 for every raised child was rejected by the government. What is also happening as part of social injustice, and today we see it, is that there is a couple who raise children, and then what happens is that most of the time a man leaves the family, who until then made a career, remains a woman's children. The fact that she wasn't at work couldn't make a career, so she's retired, and the man is leaving and starting a new family, which is unfair to those women. We offered this as a solution in the previous pension committee and we said: we must remember women, they are mostly and mostly those who, at the expense of their careers, are engaged in raising children. And how will they be rewarded? That he'd punish them in retirement. This means that we should also focus much more on our policy towards women, that it is mostly those who raise children at the expense of their careers, and we should put things into practice much more intensively, such as. home offices, shared jobs and others to enable parents, and especially women, to combine their professional and family life. Indeed, this government is not taking sufficient steps to support women, and the proposals with which the people's people come and deal with them are rejected only because they are opposition. On behalf of the people, I can say that we are ready to create a meaningful long-term pension reform that will ensure the sustainability of public funds so that ultimately those who receive pensions are not affected. We are currently talking about a generation of 40-year-olds who are going to retire, and if we don't have enough children and payers in the system, then the money won't be there and there won't be nothing to pay the pensions from. And that's not what this government has found the answer to. I am convinced that this is the responsibility of the entire Chamber of Deputies and it is not the subject of one parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u45	Now another point of fact, Mr Roman Sklenák, and another one came to me, Mr Marek Benda, and only then Mr Kalousek in order. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u46	Thank you for the floor. I came forward with a factual remark as rapporteur for this press and I would like to inform you all that we are discussing an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which consists in adopting a legal regulation so that from next year the average pension will be CZK 900 (?). In my view, at first reading, we should discuss whether this reasoning is correct, whether we return the proposal to the petitioner or propose it to reject, or let him go on, and give it to the committees. Indeed, the one hour debate that I am following here cannot be seen as a debate that relates solely to the submitted material. So I ask you all to stick to this press as far as possible, and, Mr President, I would like to politely give you the opportunity to consider whether, in the case of some contributions, it would not be appropriate to lead the debate on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u47	Thank you and now with a point of fact, first President Bartošek and then President Mikuláš Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u48	Thank you for the floor. By your means to Mr Sklenák. Believe that my comment and contribution was on this subject. I am convinced that pensions are to be raised, and my question was: the steps that this government is taking - do you ensure that they are heading towards sustainable public finances in the long run? That was it, I didn't get the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u49	Another factual point, Mr Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would simply like to respond briefly to my colleague, Sklenák, through you. It is not possible to separate the debate on raising pensions from the debate on the sustainability of the pension system. It's just not possible. The fact that you only propose to increase pensions by less than 200 crowns compared to the valorization, which is over 700 crowns, for which there is agreement absolutely throughout the House, because it is in the law and no one suggests to change it, so you want to add 200 crowns, with which and priori no one has a problem either. However, we draw attention to the fact that the government is to look for additional revenue from the state budget to ensure the financing of pensions in the future. It is a task that the House has imposed, and I have asked the Minister what he is doing on this matter, and I have unfortunately not received an answer yet. So once again, I ask that I be able to have the answer in the debate so that I can respond if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u51	Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek to the general debate, with a written application and with priority rights. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u52	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, too, to turn directly against the speech of the rapporteur, Mr Roman Sklenák, with all due respect and friendship, but indeed, he did. His speech: now let's talk about how much we will increase pensions for next year, and let's not put this in the context of long-term sustainability, which does not involve - well that shows a typical social democratic approach to budgetary responsibility. Today let's still be happy in our white bed, which will be tomorrow, who knows, tomorrow we'll lie in coffins. But responsible budgeting isn't about how it's gonna work out next year. Responsible budgeting is about how sustainable it is for several future generations. And the government knows how sustainable it is. I think I mentioned yesterday how the Prime Minister was indignant with the prediction of the National Budget Board on the sustainability of public budgets, particularly in the field of compulsory insurance. We have been discussing the convergence programme on the Committee on Budgets today, and I recommend to each Member at least Chapter 5 of this Convergence Programme, because there is a prediction by the government itself of the sustainability of public insurance - and I think that exactly, that cannot be blamed for. And I'm just quoting a few sentences here: we expect the balance to be relatively stable at around minus 0.3 percent of GDP by 2030. Over the next period, the balance will deteriorate and fall by 2060 to almost to minus 4 percent of GDP. What is minus 4 percent of GDP in 2050-2060, we don't know, but if we took it on tonight's session, minus 4 percent would be 200 billion. Deficit only on the retirement account. The government knows, the government is aware of it, they know the problem starts in 2030. He doesn't do anything. Let's keep going. Let us continue to see how the government itself sees the sustainability of the pension account. This means, he says: Between 2050 and 2060 minus 4 percent if there is no major change. It adds: There is a significant deterioration compared to the last projection - the last projection was made in 2015 - where the balance just before the end of the projection fell to a minimum level of less than 2 percent. So between 2015 and 2018, the projection has doubled from minus 2 percent to minus 4. And even here, the government knows and writes why it's twice as bad. The balance of the pension system is the most aggravating of the pension age, where the impact is about 1.6 percentage points, and the change in the valuation formula, where the impact is about 0.3 percentage points. Once again, if we were to transfer it to today's session, by putting a 65-year ceiling on it, the government that decided to put it down by about 75 billion. and a change in the valorization formula by about 15 billion. [[11.00 hours]] It is therefore unfair to say that social democracy has done nothing in recent years to develop a pension account. She made it worse twice. With his coalition partners. The political decision has made the projection twice worse, the political decision, and that there has been a ceiling instead of the vending machine that previously paid, and that there has been a change in the valorisation formula. Well, it's okay. This is a political decision, but it must be balanced by another political decision on how to make this account sustainable when it is clearly not sustainable, and the government is aware of it. Mr. Votava here has subjected the crushing criticism of the second pillar. Well, please, we don't claim to be the bearer of the only truth. I am still convinced that the second pillar was the right decision, and the only thing that bothers me is that we didn't enforce the compulsory second pillar, and when we didn't enforce the mandatory second pillar, we had to at least push for an active dissent speech, because I believe that if there was an active dissent speech, the unsubscribed ones in the second pillar were about as many as those applied for when they had to express their active consent. There's no point going back to that. It was politically legitimate and it was your right when you acquired the parliamentary majority to abolish this model, but what is no longer politically legitimate in the next five years to do absolutely nothing, even though you are clearly aware of the further development of public finances, as you yourself write it in your government materials that it is. But it does not excite you, because it will only be after 2030, and you are only interested in the next year with the rapporteur's words. You can't budget like that, you can't do responsible funding like that. Your approach is extremely irresponsible, extremely unfair especially to the younger generation. There's no point in discussing how righteous pensions will be if we're threatened that they won't be at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. Anyone else reporting for the debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Madam Secretary is interested in the final word. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Let me sum up and respond to some of the contributions. I will start with Mr Martínek through Mr President. Why we decided not to increase the base area 10,6 percent after all. Well, because it's a conceptual change, and because I think conceptual changes should be discussed in the Fair Pensions Commission. That is why we have decided on another system of valorisation, and these conceptual things will be the subject of our pension commission's negotiations. With regard to Mr Bauer's question through Mr President that we only want to brag before the elections to the European Parliament and that is why we are raising pensions. That's not true. Maybe that's what the ODS did, I'm judging you, but we're raising pensions because we want to protect the elderly from poverty. I mention it all the time. In the last few years, our number of seniors has risen by almost a third despite the record increase in poverty-risk pensions. That is why we are trying to raise pensions because of enormous growth in housing prices, because of enormous growth in energy prices and so on, even though we are aware of the enormous budgetary impact. We try to do this in such a way that it is fiscally responsible. That we didn't do anything during the previous government? We have promised to cancel the second pillar, and we have also kept that, so social democracy is fulfilling its promises. About the concept. I remember, under the government of the right-wing, led by the ODS, how it just valorized. There I also lacked any concept. I think the highest valorization was 40 crowns, and that was at a time when the seniors really didn't have it easy. So we can actually say that after all these years, we're still paying off the debts that the ODS committed. And we want conceptual changes. We said, at the end of the government's term, we want the pension to be CZK 15,000. That's our idea of a dignified, fair retirement. Once again, on the question of President Stanjura through Mr President, what is a fair pension. I've been saying this for a long time, we've called our retirement committee a committee for fair pensions because I want at least three dimensions there. I want a fair pension, which will move in compensation to a gross average wage somewhere between 40 and 50 per cent, where I am ready for discussion. But the justice must be ensured in an intergenerational manner. We want these pensions to be fair and dignified in the amounts that I have just mentioned for current retirees, I want their children and grandchildren to also have fair pensions, which means that the sustainability of the intergenerational ones, I want people who have raised future taxpayers also to have fair pensions. That's the second dimension, that means women versus men. If women have lower pensions because they cared for their children or grandchildren, they cannot be financially punished for this care. Thirdly, we want pensions to be fair to those who work more physically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your voice down so the secretary can proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u56	With regard to the reform that the previous government demonstrated, the right-wing government, what were the results? Almost no one has entered the second pillar, and the constant increase in retirement age inspires terror. It is not true that this is a solution to the sustainability of the pension system. The fact that the retirement age is constantly increasing, even though we have managed to stop it, has effects in the dosage system. See how our disability pensions have increased, what impact this has on material distress, unemployment insurance, etc. So these are not the solutions we imagine. As far as the income of the pension system is concerned, we are very intensively dealing with it. When I spoke about the digital tax that the whole of Europe was discussing six months ago just after my appointment, everyone was laughing. The Treasury is preparing it today. Social democracy has long been proposing - and let me put it simply - a banking tax. That's another thing. And I agree that taxation of labour and consumption is not the right way to go. Digital tax and bank tax are those things. Otherwise, as far as the Fair Pensions Commission is concerned, we will have the next, third meeting - we will meet once a month - next week. I am looking forward to and hope that we can find a solution for the unfair pensions of women. We have presented several scenarios. I think the committee is working well, that it's working really well, and we'll see if we can come up with a proposal next week. And my last point about the sustainability of the pension system. Of course, it is a very serious question, but it is also necessary to say the numbers. The Czech Republic spends less than 7 percent of GDP on the pension system to date. And do you know what Europe's average is? 8%. So our pension system is still in good numbers despite record increases. On the other hand, the ratio to GDP will fall in 2020; it will not be 6.6%, but it will be 6.6%. And that's what needs to be said. Nevertheless, it is very important to address the fiscal sustainability of the pension system. We, as social democracies, as governments, come up with our own proposals, but our system is not unsustainable. There are countries that are going to spend a lot more on the pension system, and they're already publishing what we're going to publish in 2060, which are the horror scenarios. And from today's point of view, we can't just deal with future pensioners. We need 2.5 million seniors - and I note that the average pension is CZK 13,300 - to reach nearly a million seniors for an average pension of CZK 13,300, so they cannot be left in poverty and dealt with only the future from 2030 or 2060. I understand that because it is probably the pensions of future Members, but we cannot leave 2.5 million seniors who built this economy in the lurch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u57	Madam Secretary, for that final word, there are two responses from colleagues with priority rights. President Kalousek, President Stanjura, President Bartošek. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u58	I don't want to over-tend it, but after all, I have to respond and ask a question. Madam Secretary, you have proudly declared: social democracy has abolished the second pillar, as it promised, and social democracy is fulfilling its promises. Well, in this case, yes, but she also promised social democracy that in that past period the government would present its own pension reform. They've been gone for four years and the deed's gone. And that promise is repeated in this programming statement, where we can read that pension reform is the priority of this government, even the main instrument of the pension reform is written there in my opinion completely senseless that the main instrument is the separation of the pension pillar from the state budget. But it is a public promise of social democracy and its coalition partners to the public: We will do pension reform and separate the pension account from the state budget. The programming declaration is a public promise to the public, even to the Chamber of Deputies, which, on the basis of the programming declaration, expresses confidence in the government. So I want to ask you, Madam Secretary, when that promise after five years that you will submit to the government a pension reform when you really want to keep it and whether your promise is still valid - he should, when social democracy keeps its promises - that it will separate the pension account from the state budget. And one more comment on social democracy in Slovakia. She was too intelligent to interrupt. So the second pillar was introduced, there were some parametric corrections, but Fico knew too well that if he had canceled, he would have asked the wrong question, because he himself would never have submitted any pension reform, because whatever we put forward, if it was to be functional, it must be politically courageous. It's just always gonna hurt a little bit. Always. There are many possibilities, but there will always be one sentence politically not very popular: More personal responsibility, more personal participation. And for that, nice colleagues from government benches are too populist and too politically cowardly. I can't believe you're capable of such a thing. If I'm surprised. I'm gonna be surprised nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u59	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u60	Thank you. I am not pleased to have to speak with priority right now, because, instead of answering five specific questions from my fellow Member, the Minister, instead of answering five Bauer questions in the general debate, lets him conclude by not speaking, the general debate, answering neither of those questions and just attacking. And then here he brings new topics into a debate that only those with priority rights can respond to. Well, a few notes on the new topics. Digital tax. Some laughed at us, and now the Treasury. If I translate it, the Treasury was laughing at you, and now it's in. Okay, but we're not going to support it, but if we look at it, you said fiscally responsible, so the estimated positive impact of this tax is around CZK 1 billion. Using this as an argument in the debate on the sustainability of the pension system is not fiscally responsible, but fiscally ridiculous. Second, the retirement age. So let's say, what did the Social Democrats do? Nothing, really. The retirement age has been increasing regularly for many years and will increase until 2030. In the last parliamentary term, you have argued that it will no longer increase after 2000, but that once every five years, at least twice or three times before we arrive, this will be recounted and considered whether stopping that age is a good thing. I refuse to have a fiery political debate in 2019 about what will be in 2031. It's quite safe, because here we can beat ourselves up in our predictions in 12 years, but it doesn't go anywhere. Fortunately, you didn't do anything with your retirement age by 2030. Not in the last parliamentary term, not in this parliamentary term. That's for the vows. The definition of a fair pension. I think the parameters, or the aspects that the secretary spoke of, are for discussion. It's very nice that they're trying to get that compensation ratio into the governments of that hated right where the retirement ratio to the average wage was higher than today. But I think that the debate, the 40 to 50 percent, seems like a big spread to me, but the debate between somewhere 40, 42, 44 percent is a debate about the long-term direction of the pension system, and it's pointless. Likewise, the other two factors that should be taken into account in the debate. But what the secretary has completely lost, and I hope, just because she actually forgot, and that she doesn't mean it, is the merit. If the Minister nods his head that the parameters of pension justice are not merit, then the system simply will not be fair. If a guy who spends decades making over-the-counter payments and finances pensions, then he feels a dramatic decline in income when he retires, he can never claim it as a fair system. I think these people are aware, I've already talked about it, the levels of solidarity, but to say that I'm not going to talk about it anymore, that the so-called rich, and we're talking about the middle class, we're not talking about the narrow group of the richest, they don't need any state pension, let's just say, quite frankly, let's not take that into account in the debate. If anyone uses it, they don't know what they're talking about. But the middle class is the one who feels the biggest change - what about change? The decline in income on retirement. And that's what we need to think about. And what's fair about that! Forty years I've been paying like a pussy, and then all of a sudden I have 40 percent of the income I've been used to. And that's a fair system, according to Madam Secretary! I hope he doesn't mean that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u61	Thank you. President Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u62	Thank you for the floor. There's one thing I'm gonna follow up on my previous speaker. Madam Secretary, it is indeed fair to have a fair discussion in order to respond at a time when Members who do not have priority rights appear. Because keeping it after the general debate is closed means you say your piece and they can't answer it, it's not a discussion, don't be mad at me. You have also mentioned a number of countries and how much GDP is allocated to pensions there. I wonder if in this argument you have also linked matters... to the debt ratio of these states? You need to connect these things. It's not just about how much you're giving, it's also about whether you're up for it. And you nudged the Members, so I have no choice but to give it back in part to you in that you said: this is probably about the Members and their pensions. Dear Madam Secretary, you, on your ministerial salary, can also currently save on your pension. What we're dealing with here is precisely because we're thinking about people who go to the fabric, they're in agriculture, they're low incomes, and when they retire, that's why we're asking what it's going to be financed from. Because if we don't figure it out now, it's these people who will be at risk of social poverty in pensions. That's why we're dealing with this at this point and at this time when it's still solvable, so it's not too late! Because if we don't figure it out, there will be no retirement for anyone, and it will be for the socially weak. Yes, I admit, you're gonna save your pension on your salary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u63	Thank you. That was the priority rights, and the debate was closed. The rapporteur's final word is still ahead of us. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u64	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly. First of all, I would like to recommend to those who have opposed my point of fact, which I have urged us to stick to the matter, to read the Steno Protocols on what the debate was all about. You will see that I was right that we were often very far from the subject at hand. Otherwise, if I were to sum up the general debate from the rapporteur's point of view, I note that neither the proposal for completion nor the motion for rejection has been tabled. On the contrary, a proposal was made to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Otherwise, I recommend, as well as the Organizing Committee, that the Guarantee Committee become the Social Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u65	Thank you, rapporteur. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we will decide on the guarantee committee, as has already been said by the rapporteur. The Organising Committee has proposed a proposal to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee committee? No one else is proposing a committee. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 133, 167 Members signed in for 147, versus 1. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Are any of the Members proposing a hearing in the next committee? He's not suggesting. A, Mr. Ferjenčík reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This press has very significant budgetary implications, so I propose that it be discussed in the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u67	Yes. Any other suggestions, please? There is no other suggestion. We will therefore vote on the commandment of this proposal for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 134, 167 Members registered, for 86, against 18. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that the proposal will be dealt with as a guarantee committee by the Committee on Social Policy and also by the Committee on Budgets. Since there has been a proposal in the general debate to shorten the deadline by 30 days, we will now deal with this proposal by voting. But there's a motion to unsubscribe, so I checked you all out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We will now vote on a shortening of the deadline. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 135, registered by 150 Members, for 93, versus 3. The proposal was accepted and the deadline was shortened. I thank the Minister, the rapporteur, and I conclude the first reading of this point. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now ask the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, to introduce us to the results of the elections this morning. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-26-ps2017-028-06-006-040.u68	In the order we voted. Item No
