ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending certain tax laws in the context of raising public budget revenues / House print 509/ - third reading We interrupted this item on Wednesday 30 October at the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The debate has been interrupted. I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Budget Committee, Mr Milan Feranec, take the position at the rapporteur's table. I would remind you that the motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 509/3, which was delivered on 27 September 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 509/4. President Faltýnek claims priority rights. [[Messenger. - I protest! I have the word!]] I have not yet opened the debate, Mr President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, in accordance with the resolution in force in the Chamber of Deputies No. 248, Art. Even from 26. 2. 1997 on behalf of the ANO and Social Democracy Club, the House has proposed that the vote on the proposed amendments to the amendment to the Act amending certain laws in the field of taxation, press 509, and on the Act as a whole will take place on Wednesday 6. 11:00 p.m. So much for my proposal and I believe that you will all support it following our debate half an hour ago, when we all wanted to approve the parental contribution as well. Since only one debater is logged in, I'm sure we can make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I could ask you to write... [[Yes.]] In any case, this is a procedural proposal, so I will once again call on all my colleagues from the lobby, and we will vote on this proposal. There's a checkout request. [[There's a messenger calling for a word. Kalousek.]] At this point, I cannot allow a debate unless a counterproposal or any other proposal has been made. Mr. Benda. [[Objection that he doesn't have priority rights.]] I think that's a suggestion. It is even a right for every Member to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u4	I have a counterproposal, of course, because I consider this proposal to be inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. So I have a counter-proposal to vote on the proposal after the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u5	Basically, it is a character objection to holding a meeting, but it seems to be voteable. So we will first vote on Mr Benda's objection to voting on President Faltýnek's proposal after the end of the debate at third reading. I've already checked you out, you've rejoined. We are voting on Mr Benda's proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, registered is 154, for 65, against 72. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore now vote on President Faltýnek's proposal to vote on the proposals for an amendment to the Act amending certain laws in the field of taxation, press 509, and on the law as a whole on Wednesday 6. 11:00 p.m. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 9, registered is 154, for 89, versus 63. This proposal was adopted. Another priority right, Chairman Chvojka. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová apologizes for today's work-related meeting, a foreign committee trip. Please take your word for it, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning again, colleagues. Please allow me, on behalf of the ČSSD Membership Club and also the ANO Membership Club, to propose, in accordance with Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, that the House set aside a period of up to 19 hours for the third reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u7	Thank you. Another procedural proposal, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say the veto on behalf of the STAN Clubs, TOP 09, ODS - perhaps that is enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u9	Just two clubs, Mr. Chairman. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] So at this point, we cannot vote on President Chvojka's proposal, we understand that. And perhaps it is best if we deal with this point by opening the debate. We will continue with the interrupted debate, in which Mr Kalousek, whose speech was suspended, is the first to be entered. 30 10th, see the log. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. If you have a solution, please go to the lobby. Calm down, please. Once again, I ask all those who are discussing within this room to allow President Kalousek to speak. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I follow up on my debate, allow me to convey my opinion that the House has flagrantly violated the Rules of Procedure by its previous vote. I could understand if the House had voted to end the discussion, and I could understand if the House had voted to shorten the discussion. However, to take the floor of a whole range of people who may still want to discuss or not to allow - not to allow - the club presidents to give their views to the clubs before the vote, I believe that is a decision that we will be very seriously discussing. And it's quite possible that we'll meet at the Constitutional Court. But it's just your decision. I just want you to hear that I am convinced that the law has been broken. Of course, none of us can give that position authoritarianly. He'll have to give it to the Constitutional Court. [[There's noise and restlessness in the room.]] Let me now try to convince you and try to get you to support several amendments that we will vote on under this law. I would start with Mrs Věra Kovářová's amendment. Věra Kovářová proposed in her amendment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u11	I'll stop you for a moment. Once again, I ask you all to remain calm in the hall! And a dignified course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u12	In her proposal, Věra Kovářová proposes that the taxation of the technical provisions of insurance undertakings should cover only non-life insurance but not life insurance. It is not true that we hear that life insurance has been regulated by the tax of reserves and that it has been lobbied by the amendment of former Member Suchánek. Life insurance has never been regulated by the technical taxation of reserves. Yes, non-life insurance was regulated, life insurance wasn't. By adopting Mrs Kovářová's amendment, we will actually return the legal situation to the period before Mr Suchánek's amendment, to the period that has always been here, and we will prevent the nationalisation of part of the proceeds of life insurance. Please note that there are 5.5 million people involved. Not to mention the likely increase in the future of life insurance. It is a product supported by the state, it is a product that the state supports in order for people to take care of themselves in the event of injury, death, or to serve as an additional income to old age, and if you want to nationalize this product in part in your return, it is absurd and goes against the sense of government policy and the promotion of everyone's responsibility for their own lives. It is also not true what also often sounds from the representatives of the Ministry of Finance that we are proceeding with this government proposal under the Solvency II Directive. Solvency II sets minimum technical provisions for all Member States, but it does not say anything about the fiscal effect of the State on making the reserves bigger. There's not a word about that. On the contrary, it is of course the interest of each state and of each regulator that those reserves should be greater than those laid down in the directive, Solvent II. And let me quote a few articles in support of my claim in this directive. Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Whereas: 1. In applying the requirements laid down in this Regulation, account should be taken of the nature, scale and complexity of the risks associated with the activities of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. The burden and complexity with which insurance undertakings must cope should be proportionate to their risk profile. In applying the requirements laid down in this Regulation, information should be considered essential if it could affect the decision-making or judgment of the persons who are expected to use this information. [[10.50 hours]] 2. In order to reduce over-reliance on external ratings, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should endeavour to establish their own credit assessment for all their exposures. However, in the light of the principle of proportionality, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should only be required to draw up their own credit assessments for larger or more complex exposures. 3. Supervisory authorities should ensure that insurance and reinsurance undertakings take appropriate steps to develop internal models that cover credit risks where their exposures are significant on an absolute scale and at the same time have a large number of significant counterparties. To this end, supervisory authorities should take a harmonised approach to definitions of exposures that are significant on an absolute scale and have a large number of significant counterparties. [[4.]] In order to avoid that insurance and reinsurance undertakings which do not use an approved internal model to calculate credit risk under the Solvency Capital Requirement will carry out distorted credit risk estimates, their own credit assessment should not lead to lower capital requirements than those derived from external credit ratings. 5. In order to avoid over-reliance on credit ratings in respect of exposure to another insurance or reinsurance undertaking, the use of a credit rating for the purpose of calculating the capital requirement under the standard formula may be replaced by a reference to the solvency of the counterparty, which is called. capital adequacy approach. Such an approach would require the introduction of calibrations according to the Solvency Capital Requirements and the applicable parts of own funds to cover those solvent own funds requirements to be determined when Solvency II is implemented. The capital adequacy approach should be limited to non-rated insurance and reinsurance undertakings. 6. In order to ensure that the valuation standards for supervisory purposes are compatible with international accounting developments, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should use valuation methods consistent with the market defined in the international accounting standards adopted by the Commission under Regulation 1606/2002, unless the undertaking concerned is required to apply a specific valuation method in relation to a particular asset or liability, or is allowed to use a method based on the valuation method used in the preparation of its accounting units. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings should, when assessing assets and liabilities by means of market consistent valuation methods defined in the international accounting standards adopted by the Commission under Regulation 1606/2002, manage valuation hierarchy, whereby the standard valuation method for the same assets or liabilities constitutes quoted market prices on active markets to ensure that assets and liabilities are valued at the amount at which they could be exchanged in the case of assets or transferred or settled in the case of transactions made under normal market conditions between knowledgeable and willing parties. This approach should be applied by insurance and reinsurance undertakings regardless of whether international or other valuation methods are governed by another valuation hierarchy. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings should recognise and value assets and liabilities with deferred tax liability in respect of all items recognised for solvency purposes or in the balance sheet in order to ensure that all amounts that could in future give rise to tax cash flows are captured. The valuation of insurance and reinsurance obligations should include commitments relating to existing insurance and reinsurance activities. Commitments relating to future activities should not be included in the valuation. Where insurance and reinsurance contracts include policyholders' options which allow it to set up, renew, extend and increase insurance or reinsurance cover or to restart, or insurance and reinsurance undertakings' options which enable them to terminate the contract or to change the insurance or reinsurance obligations, contractual boundaries should be defined in order to establish whether the additional cover resulting from such options is considered to be an existing or future activity. In order to determine the transfer value of insurance and reinsurance obligations, future cash flows relating to renewal options should be taken into account when assessing the liabilities, irrespective of their profitability, unless the renewal option does not mean that the insurance or reinsurance undertaking has the same economic rights to determine the premiums or premiums in the renewed contract as in the new contract. In order to ensure that the analysis of the financial situation of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking is not distorted, the technical provisions of the portfolio of insurance and reinsurance obligations may be negative. The calculation of technical provisions should not be subject to a debt lower limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u13	Mr. Chairman, I will interrupt you for a moment. I'll take advantage of your refreshment, it'll only take a second. However, it is indeed the role of the President to draw the attention of the outgoing Members to the fact that, pursuant to Paragraph 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, In particular, the purpose of the third reading is to correct legislative technical errors and not to repeat the debate. This means that you have applied not with priority rights, but properly to the discussion and your speech should be directed towards a specific proposal, which is a correction of grammatical errors, legislative technical, or a proposal to repeat second reading. That's the point of third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u14	My speech is on the way, Mr President. I am asking for the support of some amendments here, I argue. If it doesn't suit you, I'll sign up with priority rights. We can switch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u15	brát of it as a warning from me. I hope that your speech will be directed towards that particular proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u16	We'll come to that proposal someday, I assure you. Unless I'm illegally interrupted. The transfer value of insurance or reinsurance obligations may be lower than the value of sales in related contracts. The calculation of technical provisions should not be subject to the lower limit for the value of the disposal. In order to achieve technical provisions corresponding to the transfer value of insurance and reinsurance obligations, the calculation of the best estimate should take into account future developments, e.g. demographic, legal, medical, technological, social, environmental and economic developments that will have an impact on the additions and losses of the funds needed to settle liabilities. In order to achieve the best estimate, which corresponds to the probability of a weighted average of future cash flows, referred to in point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The cash flow projections used in the calculation of the best estimate should take into account all uncertainties in cash flows. The selection of the best estimate method should be proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the risks to the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. The range of best estimate methods includes simulation, deterministic and analytical methods. For certain life insurance contracts, in particular where they result from unguaranteeed profit shares depending on investment returns or where they contain financial guarantees or contractual options, simulation methods may provide a more accurate calculation of the best estimate. Where insurance and reinsurance contracts contain financial guarantees and options, the present value of the cash flows resulting from those contracts may depend on both the expected outcome of future events and developments and on how actual results in certain scenarios could deviate from the expected result. The methods used to calculate the best estimate should take account of these interdependences. [[11.00 hours]] The definition of future unguaranteeed profit shares should capture insurance premiums in insurance and reinsurance contracts, which are paid in addition to guaranteed claims and which result from the participation of the policyholder in the profit. It should not take into account insurance transactions linked to the index or value of the unit unit. The calculation of the risk premium should be based on the assumption that the entire portfolio of insurance and reinsurance obligations is transferred to another insurance or reinsurance undertaking. In particular, the calculation should take into account the diversification of the entire portfolio. The calculation of the risk premium should be based on a forecast of the Solvency Capital Requirement which takes into account the mitigation of risks for reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles. Separate calculations should not be made for gross and net risk premium for reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles. The adjustment of basic risk-free interest rates for credit risk should be derived from market rates that capture credit risk reflected in the variable rate of interest swaps. To this end, and in order to align the determination of the adjustment with standard market practice and market conditions similar to those prevailing on the date of adoption of Directive 214/51/EU, in particular as regards the euro, market rates should correspond to the Euribor rates for commitments with a maturity of three months. In determining the last maturity period for which bond markets are no longer deep, liquid and transparent in accordance with Article 77a of Directive 2009, a market similar to those prevailing on the date of adoption of the Directive should not be considered as deep and liquid if the cumulative volume of debt with maturity periods which are longer than or equal to the last maturity period is less than 6 per cent of the volume of all bonds on the market in question. Where no reliable credit spreads such as sovereign debt exposures cannot be derived from standard statistics, the basic margin for calculating the adjustment and volatility adjustment should be equal to the proportion of the long-term average of the margin over the risk-free credit interest rate referred to in Article 77 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) and (c) Directive 2009. As regards exposures to central governments of Member States or central banks, the class of assets should capture the difference between Member States. In order to ensure transparency in determining the relevant risk-free interest rate pursuant to recital 29 of Directive 214/51, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority should, as part of the technical information to be published in accordance with Article 77e (1), be required to ensure that: This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The breakdown of insurance and reinsurance obligations by type of insurance and into homogeneous risk groups should reflect the nature of the risks associated with the undertaking. The nature of the related risks may justify a breakdown which differs from the division of insurance activities into life insurance activities and non-life insurance activities from the non-life insurance classes set out in Annex I to Directive 2009/138 and from the life insurance classes set out in Annex II to Directive 2009/138. The decision whether the method of calculating the technical provisions is proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the risks should include an assessment of the model error of the method. However, such an assessment should not require insurance and reinsurance undertakings to indicate the exact amount of the model error. For the purposes of applying for the approval of the supervisory authorities of the use of the compensatory adjustment referred to in Article 77b (1), the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 77b (2). In the case of insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings, the insurance and reinsurance undertakings should be allowed to consider different eligible insurance products as a single portfolio, provided that the conditions for approval are consistently fulfilled and that no legal obstacles prevent the activity from being organised and managed separately from the remaining activities of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking in a single portfolio. The approval of the inclusion of ancillary own funds in order to meet the Solvency Capital Requirement of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking should be based on an assessment of the relevant criteria of the supervisory authorities. However, insurance or reinsurance undertakings applying for the approval of an additional own funds item should demonstrate to the supervisory authorities that the criteria have been met and should provide those authorities with all the information requested by the supervisory authorities in order to carry out such an assessment. The supervisory authorities should assess the application for the approval of ancillary own funds on a case-by-case basis. When considering an application for the approval of ancillary own funds pursuant to Article 90 of Directive 2009/138, supervisory authorities should take into account the economic nature and legal enforcement of the additional own funds item for which approval is sought. Tier 1 capital should consist of own funds items that are of high quality and fully absorb losses in order to enable insurance and reinsurance undertakings to continue their activities. Where the economic impact of a transaction or group related to a transaction is equivalent to that which arises when an insurance or reinsurance undertaking retains its own shares, the excess of assets over liabilities should be reduced to reflect the existence of a burden on that part of the capital. The assessment of whether an individual own funds item has a sufficient duration should be based on the original maturity of that item. The average duration of the total capital of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking should not be significantly shorter than the average duration of the undertaking of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, taking into account the remaining maturity of all own funds items. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings should also assess whether the total amount of own funds has a sufficient duration in the context of their own risk and solvency assessment, taking into account both the original and the remaining maturity of all own funds items and all insurance and reinsurance obligations. The assessment of the capacity of an item to absorb loss in liquidation under Article 93 of Directive 2009/138 should not be based on a comparison of the surplus of assets over liabilities valued consistently and a surplus of assets over liabilities valued, provided that winding-up proceedings have been initiated in relation to the insurance or reinsurance undertaking concerned. As future premiums from existing insurance and reinsurance contracts are included in the calculation of technical provisions, the amount of surplus assets over liabilities that are included in Tier 1 should not be adjusted to exclude expected gains from this future premium. Capital items with features that encourage redemption, such as the contractual increase in the dividend due or the coupon rate in combination with the purchase option, should be limited in order to limit repayment or redemption in the event of a breach of the Solvency Capital Requirement and should be classified only as Tier 2 or Tier 3. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings should divide the surplus of assets over liabilities into amounts corresponding to the own funds items in their financial statements and to the revaluation reserve fund. The revaluation reserve may be positive or negative. For each class, including Tier 3, a full list of own funds items should be drawn up to make it clear for which items the supervisory authorities should apply for the approval of the classification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u17	I'll cut you off if you could have a drink in peace, Mr. Chairman. I will read Dominik Feri's apology, which is registered after you in the debate and apologizes until the end of the day. That's one thing. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you are duly registered with the right of priority to comply with the Rules of Procedure Act. In the third reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 a debate is held in which only corrections to legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, written or print adjustments can be proposed. This is logical from the amendments tabled. If necessary, submit a motion for a second reading. And I haven't heard anything like it yet. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u18	Thank you for your warning, Mr President. I have already received such, and I have promised that at the end of my speech there will be a specific proposal under the Rules of Procedure. But I have to get to him with the proper arguments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u19	I understand you want to do this, but by quoting the directive, we probably won't get to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u20	What, Mr President, is an appropriate or inappropriate argument for the proposal that I am about to make, kindly leave to me. Or do you think we should tell each other what arguments we should use here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u21	No. It is only that the Act on Rules of Procedure provides for a different discussion at third reading than at first and second reading. And that's why I led you to order, given that you signed up properly, not with the right of priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u22	Of course. If it would please you, Mr President, I can end my discussion post properly and immediately sign up with priority rights, but I think we can save it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u23	In that case, Mr. Feri's application would be forfeit, and Mr. Rakušan's colleague is also logged in. I'd have to ask him if he's logged in with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u24	I assure you, at the end of my speech, I will get to the motion to comply with the Rules of Procedure. That is all I can tell you, and do as you see fit, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u26	Now I've forgotten where I interrupted because of you. Maybe I should start from the beginning. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Assigned funds constitute measures under which the designated set of assets and liabilities is managed as if it were a separate undertaking and should not include normal index-linked activities, the value of the unit or reinsurance activity. The reduced transferability of the assets of the assigned fund should be reflected in the calculation of the surplus of assets over the liabilities of a particular insurance or reinsurance undertaking. Activities of both life and non-life insurance may give rise to assigned funds. Participation in profit does not necessarily constitute an assigned liability and should not be regarded as defining the property of the assigned fund. Assigned funds should be limited to measures that reduce the ability of certain capital items to absorb losses in full continuation of activity. Measures that affect only the capacity to absorb losses in the event of liquidation should not be considered as assigned funds. In order to avoid double counting of own funds at individual level in insurance and banking, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should deduct from the amount of primary own funds all holdings in financial and credit institutions that exceed 10 per cent of Tier 1 own funds that are not subject to any restrictions. Participations in financial and credit institutions that in total exceed the same true value should be deducted in part, in proportion. The deduction is not necessary where the participation is strategic and the method 1 set out in Annex I to Directive 2002/87/EC applies to such insurance and reinsurance undertakings for the purpose of calculating the group solvency. The majority of the eligible own funds to meet the minimum capital requirement and the Solvency Capital Requirement should be Tier 1 capital. In order to ensure that the limitation does not result in procyclical effects, the restrictions in the applicable parts of Tier 2 and Tier 3 should apply so that the loss of Tier 1 capital does not cause losses of the total eligible own funds that would exceed that loss. Therefore, the restriction should apply to the extent that the Solvency Capital Requirement and the Minimum Capital Requirement are covered by own funds. Capital items that exceed the limits should not be counted as eligible own funds. When drawing up lists of regional governments and local authorities, EBA should respect the requirement that there is no difference in the risk between exposures to those regional governments and local authorities and exposures to the central government under whose jurisdiction it falls, given the specific possibilities for obtaining revenue from regional governments and local authorities and the existence of a specific institutional arrangement that reduces their risk of default. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Directive 2009/138, which concerns those lists, shall be treated as exposures to the central government under whose jurisdiction they fall for the purposes of calculating the market risk module and the counterparty default risk module in the standard formula with direct exposures to regional governments and local authorities. In order to avoid the granting of inappropriate incentives to restructure long-term contracts for short-term renewable contracts, the level of risk of non-life insurance premiums and health insurance risks, methods similar to those used in the standard formula should be used, based on the economic nature of insurance and reinsurance contracts, not on their legal form. The volume measure should therefore capture the premiums earned, which fall within the contractual limits of the existing contracts and contracts to be signed in the next 12 months. As expected gains in future premiums under existing non-life insurance and reinsurance contracts are considered to be applicable capital of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, the non-life subscription risk module should capture the risk of non-life insurance and reinsurance contracts. As regards the risk of insurance premiums, the calculation of the capital requirement for non-life premiums and the risk of insurance premiums and provisions in health insurance should be based either on the past premiums earned or on the expected future premiums earned, whichever amount is higher, in order to take into account the uncertainty about future premiums earned. However, if an insurance or reinsurance undertaking can reliably guarantee that future premiums earned do not exceed the expected premiums, the calculation should be based only on the expected premiums earned. In order to take into account the average characteristics of the life insurance obligations, the modeling of the mass risk of savings in the standard formula for the Solvency Capital Requirement should be based on the assumptions that the risk of municipalities which the assuming insurance or reinsurance undertaking may apply under the reinsurance contract is not relevant to the reinsurance undertaking or reinsurance undertaking. In order to take into account the different risk profile of health insurance applied on a similar technical basis as for life insurance, the health subscription risk module for these two types of insurance should contain different sub-modules. In order to take into account the average characteristics of life insurance obligations, the modeling of life and health subscription risk modules should be based on the assumption that the risk related to the dependence of insurance and reinsurance obligations on inflation is not relevant. [[11.20 hours]] The scenario based on calculations of non-life and health catastrophic risk modules in the standard formula should be based on the specification of disaster losses that are gross and that are not deducted from amounts that can be recovered from reinsurance contracts or special purpose vehicles. In determining the change in primary own funds resulting from the scenario, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should take into account the effects of their specific reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles that mitigate the risk. In order to take into account the average characteristics of non-life insurance obligations, the risk model of the non-life disaster risk sub-module in the standard formula should be based on the assumption that the risk of accumulation of more similar claims covered by third party liability insurance obligations is irrelevant. In order to take into account the average characteristics of non-life insurance obligations, the modeling of the mass risk of accidents in the standard formula should be based on the assumption that the exposure of insurance and reinsurance undertakings to the mass risk of accidents in third countries other than specific European countries is not relevant for insurance and reinsurance undertakings and insurance groups covered by Directive 2009/138. It should also be based on the assumption that the collective risk of accidents in relation to the employer's liability insurance for damage to an accident at work or occupational disease is not relevant. In order to take into account the average characteristics of non-life insurance obligations, modelling the risk of concentration of accidents in the standard formula should be based on the assumption that the risk of concentration of accidents in relation to health insurance and income protection insurance other than for group discounts is not relevant. In order to take into account empirical evidence of natural disasters when calibrating the standard formula, modelling the risk of natural disasters should be based on geographical areas which are partly homogeneous in terms of the risk to which insurance and reinsurance undertakings are exposed. The risk weights for this area should be specified in such a way as to capture the annual loss/insurance ratio for the relevant types of insurance by the value-in-risk method with 99.5 reliability. The coefficients for the correlation of these geographical areas should be chosen to reflect the interrelationship between the relevant risks in geographical areas, taking into account, where appropriate, the non-linear nature of the interdependency. In order to capture the actual risk exposure of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking in calculating the capital requirement for the risk of natural disasters in a standard formula, the insurance amount should be determined in a manner that takes into account contractual limits for compensation in the case of natural disasters. The market risk module in the standard formula should be based on the assumption that the sensitivity of assets and liabilities to changes in volatility of market parameters is not relevant. The calibration of interest rate risk at longer maturity should reflect the fact that the final future interest rate to which the partial risk-free interest rate structure is directed is stable over time and is only changing due to changes in long-term expectations. For the purposes of calculating the standard formula, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should determine which of their affiliated undertakings are strategic in nature. The calibration of the equity risk sub-module for investments in affiliated undertakings of a strategic nature should reflect a likely reduction in the volatility of the value of those affiliated undertakings resulting from the strategic nature of those investments and the effects held by undertakings holding a participation in those affiliated undertakings. The duration-based equity risk sub-module should be based on the assumption that the normal duration of holdings of equity investments referred to in Article 304 of Directive 2009/138 is consistent with the average duration of liabilities under Article 304 of Directive 2009/138. In order to avoid procyclical effects, the time for the symmetric adjustment mechanism of the equity risk sub-module should establish a balance between maintaining the sensitivity of the sub-module to risks and taking into account the symmetric adjustment objective. If a matching adjustment is applied to the calculation of the best estimate of insurance or reinsurance obligations, the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement in the credit spread sub-module should take into account the impact of changes in the asset range on the matching adjustment and thus on the value of the technical provisions. Since the risk profile of real estate located in third countries does not differ significantly from that of real estate located in the Union, the real estate risk sub-module in the standard formula should treat these two types of exposures equally. As concentration risk arises mainly due to the lack of diversification of issuers exposed to insurance and reinsurance undertakings, the sub-module of the concentration of market risk in the standard formula should be based on the assumption that the geographical or sectoral concentration of the assets held by the insurance or reinsurance undertaking is not relevant. The default module of the counterparty in the standard formula should be based on the assumption that for exposures that may be diversified and for which the counterparty is likely to receive a rating, exposures of the first type, the default losses of counterparties that do not belong to the same group are independent, and vice versa the default losses of counterparties belonging to the same group are not independent. In order to ensure that the credit risk of all counterparties to which insurance or reinsurance undertakings are exposed is recognised in the Solvency Capital Requirement, calculated using the standard formula, all exposures that are not included in the credit spread sub-module or in the counterparty default risk module should be recognised as exposures of the first type in the counterparty default risk module as exposures of the second type.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u27	I will also let you drink and rest, Mr. Ambassador. [[Messenger. - I don't need to.]] I am merely stating an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, who apologizes from today's day since 11.10 for reasons of work. I again draw attention to § 95 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u28	I am aware of it and I assure you, Mr President, that I am in a hurry to present a proposal corresponding to this paragraph at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u29	I understand, I'm just pointing out to my colleagues that you're somewhere after point 20, and the points in that directive are 151.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u30	I'm in a hurry too. [[Laughter, signs of doubt.]] The counterparty default risk module in the standard formula should reflect the economic impact of collateral agreements in the event of counterparty defaults. In particular, it should be taken into account whether full ownership of the collateral is brought in or not. It should also be considered whether, in the event of a counterparty's insolvency, the fact that an insurance or reinsurance undertaking receives collateral is taken into account in determining the proportion of the reinsurer's or reinsurance undertaking's insolvency. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The basic Solvency Capital Requirement should include an additional risk module to address the specific risks arising from intangible assets recognised and recognised for insolvency purposes and not recorded in another part of the Solvency Capital Requirement. [[11.30 hours]] The operational risk module of the standard formula captures in the calculation based on factors the risk arising from the deficiency or failure of internal procedures of workers or systems or from external events. To this end, technical provisions, premiums earned in the previous 12 months and expenditure incurred in the last 12 months shall be considered appropriate measures of volume to capture that risk. The latter measure of volume is only relevant for life insurance contracts where the risk is borne by the policyholder. Since acquisition expenses are carried out in a variety of insurance business models, they should not be taken into account within the scope of the scale of the amount of expenditure incurred in the last 12 months. In order to ensure that the operational risk capital requirement continues to meet the reliability level set out in Article 101 of Directive 2009/138, a review of the operational risk module should be carried out in the context of the review of the method, assumptions and standard parameters used in the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement using the standard formula carried out by the Commission in accordance with recital 150. This review should focus in particular on life insurance contracts where the risk is borne by the policyholder. The calculation of the adjustment for the ability of technical provisions or the deferred tax obligation to absorb losses should ensure that there is no double counting of the impact of the risk reduction by means of unguaranteeed profit shares or deferred tax obligations. Future unguaranteeed profit shares are usually an element related to life and SLT health insurance contracts. Therefore, an adjustment for the capacity of technical provisions to absorb losses should take into account the impact of risk mitigation through future unguaranteeed profit shares in relation to life subscription risk, SLT to health subscription risk, health catastrophic risk, market risk and counterparty default risk. In order to reduce the complexity of the standard formula and burden on insurance and reinsurance undertakings associated with the calculation, the adjustment should not apply to non-life insurance and health insurance risks. Since future unguaranteeed profit shares may not effectively absorb losses arising from the lack or failure of internal processes, workers and systems or from external events, the adjustment should not apply to operational risk. The recognition of risk mitigation techniques in the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement should reflect the economic nature of the technique used and should be limited to risk mitigation techniques effectively transferring risk outside the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. The assessment of whether an effective risk transfer has taken place should consider all aspects of risk mitigation techniques and safeguards between the insurance undertaking and the reinsurance undertaking and their counterparties. In the event that the risk mitigation is carried out by collateral, the fact that a significant deviation in the amount or timing of payments by the reinsurer is unlikely should not in itself mean that the reinsurer has not taken any risk. The scenario based calculations of the standard formula for the Solvency Capital Requirement are based on the impact of immediate pressures, and insurance and reinsurance undertakings should not take into account risk mitigation techniques that rely on insurance or reinsurance undertakings to carry out certain measures in the future at the time of the pressure, e.g. dynamic hedging strategy or future management measures. Dynamic hedging strategies and future management measures should be distinguished from ongoing hedge arrangements in which the risk mitigation technique is currently applied and will be replaced by a similar arrangement at the time of expiry, irrespective of the solvency of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. In order to avoid a situation where the effectiveness of the risk mitigation technique is weakened by the existence of a basic risk, in particular due to currency mismatches, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should take into account the material basic risk in the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement. Where a material basis risk is not taken into account in the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement, the risk mitigation technique should not be recognised. [[The speaker reads his papers.]] Sorry. The calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement should take into account the existence of profit participation arrangements where profits are distributed among policyholders or beneficiaries. Where the calculation of the capital requirement for a module or sub-module of the risk of a basic Solvency Capital Requirement is based on the impact of two-way scenarios on primary own funds, such as for credit, currency risk or cancellation risks, the insurance or reinsurance undertaking should determine which scenario has the most adverse effect on the primary own funds of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking as a whole. This determination should take into account, where appropriate, the effects of participation in the profit and distribution of unguaranteed profit shares at the level of the assigned fund. The scenario thus identified should be the relevant scenario for calculating the fictitious Solvency Capital Requirement for each assigned fund. In order to prepare for future revisions of correlation parameters on the basis of appropriate empirical information, e.g. changes in mortality and level of savings for life insurance obligations and combined or reserve exhaustion ratios for non-life insurance obligations should receive adequate data from supervisory authorities. The supervisory authorities should receive such data from insurance and reinsurance undertakings as part of the information to be reported to supervisory authorities as this will be necessary for supervisory purposes and therefore no additional burden should arise for insurance and reinsurance undertakings. In providing an opinion on the updating of correlation parameters, EBA should take into account whether, as a result of applying the updated correlation requirements to insurance and reinsurance undertakings, the total capital requirement will comply with the principles of Article 101 of Directive 2009/138, whether there is a correlation between the risks of non-linear and whether there is insufficient diversification under extreme scenarios, considering alternative measures related to dependence for calibration purposes of updating correlation parameters. It is likely that many aspects of internal models will change over time at the same time as improving knowledge on risk modeling, and supervisory authorities should therefore take into account up-to-date information and procedure in the preparation of assessments of internal models to ensure that they keep up with the latest developments. The internal model may play an important role in the management system of insurance or reinsurance undertakings only if it is adapted to the activities of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking and if the persons who base their decisions on the exits from that system understand it. The control of the use of internal models should therefore ensure that approved internal models are suitable for the activity of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking and that the persons who actually manage the insurance or reinsurance undertaking understand them. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings, which are based on an internal model when calculating the Solvency Capital Requirement, should use the internal model in their risk management system and decision-making processes in a way that creates incentives to improve the quality of the internal model itself. The requirement for an internal model to be widely used and have a significant role to play in the management and control system of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, as set out in Article 120 of Directive 2009/138, should not lead insurance and reinsurance undertakings to rely blindly on output from the internal model. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings should not take decisions on the basis of outputs from the internal model without calling into question the suitability of the model. They should be aware of the limitations of the internal model and take them into account in their decisions. [[11.40 hours]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) For the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions shall apply: Statistical quality standards and validation standards should therefore continue to be based on principles and should only contain specific minimum requirements. For the same reason, documentation standards should not contain a complete list of documents, but only a minimum list of documents that should exist for each internal model. The insurance and reinsurance undertakings' documents should contain all the additional information necessary to ensure compliance with the documentation standards for internal models. In order to ensure that the internal model is up to date and that it best reflects their risk profile, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should be aware of the appropriate developments in insurance mathematics and generally accepted risk modelling market practice. However, this does not mean that insurance and reinsurance undertakings should always adapt their internal models to generally accepted market practices. In many cases, it may be necessary to derogate from generally accepted market practices in order to create an appropriate internal model. Internal models are usually based on a large volume of data from different sources, with different characteristics and different qualities. In order to ensure that appropriate data are used in the internal model, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should collect, process and use data in a transparent and structured manner. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings should be able to decide freely what structure of the internal model best reflects their risks. Such decisions should be subject to the approval of the supervisory authority. In the case of partial internal models, it might be more appropriate to calculate the different components separately and integrate them directly into the standard formula without being further grouped in the internal model. In this case, a probability distribution forecast should be calculated for each component. This internal model includes any technique of integrating a partial internal model into a standard formula for the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement and should meet the relevant requirements of Directive 2009/138 together with the other components of the partial model. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings should calculate a linear minimum capital requirement using a standard calculation irrespective of whether an insurance or reinsurance undertaking uses a standard formula or an internal model to calculate the Solvency Capital Requirement. For the purposes of calculating the upper and lower limit of the minimum own funds requirement referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR, institutions shall calculate the maximum own funds requirement in accordance with Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. The calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement should not be required for insurance and reinsurance undertakings in accordance with Article 3 (3) of Directive 2009/138. Where the calculation of the minimum capital requirement does not coincide with the annual calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should apply the last calculated Solvency Capital Requirement in accordance with Article 102 of Directive 2009/138. In accordance with the prudent conduct principle laid down in Article 132 of Directive 2009/138 and in order to ensure consistency between sectors, the interests of firms that change loans to marketable securities and other financial instruments - originators, sponsors or original creditors - and the interests of insurance or reinsurance undertakings investing in such securities or instruments should be aligned. In order to align those interests, insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings should be allowed to invest in such securities or instruments only if the originator, sponsor or original creditor retains a significant net economic interest in the underlying assets. The requirement that the originator, sponsor or original creditor retain a significant net economic interest in the underlying assets should also apply where there are several originators, sponsors or original creditors. In order to avoid possible circumvention of these requirements, to avoid misunderstandings and to harmonise terminology with the terminology used in Union legislation regulating the activities of credit institutions, the term "investment in marketable securities and other financial instruments based on converted loans' should be used instead of the term "investment in securitised positions'. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings investing in securitisation should have overall and broad awareness of the investment and its underlying exposures. In order to gain such awareness, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should decide on investment only after having carried out a thorough due diligence to obtain adequate information and knowledge on securitisation. In order to ensure that the risks arising from the securitisation positions are adequately taken into account in the own funds requirements of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, it is necessary to lay down rules on the risk-sensitive and prudent treatment of such investments, depending on the nature and related process of subscription of underlying exposures, structural features and transparency. SECURITISATION THAT COMPLIANCE WITH THOSE REQUIREMENTS should be subject to special treatment in the risk sub-module of the margin, taking into account their lower risk. Since only the highest senior tranche is qualified for such treatment and in view of the increase in credit quality resulting from the tranches of the highest seniority compared to the total pool of underlying exposures, it is appropriate to apply risk factors at the level of the spread factor that would be applied to the underlying exposure, namely at 3% of the risk factor for each year of the duration applicable to unrated loans. This approach should be reviewed in the context of the review of the methods, assumptions and standard parameters used in the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement using the standard formula carried out by the Commission in accordance with recital 150. In order to avoid regulatory arbitration, these rules should be applied according to the principle that content is more important than form. To this end, it is necessary to define a clear and comprehensive definition of a securitisation that captures all transactions or systems of transactions by which the credit risk associated with a particular exposure or a larger number of exposures is distributed into individual tranches. An exposure that creates a direct payment obligation under a transaction or transaction system used to finance or operate tangible assets should not be considered as an exposure to a securitisation, even if the transaction or transaction system in question has different bosses. Good governance is the basis for effective and sound management of insurance and reinsurance undertakings as well as a key element of the regulatory framework. The management and control system of the insurance and reinsurance undertaking should be based on an appropriate and transparent allocation of supervisory and management responsibilities to ensure effective decision-making, avoiding conflicts of interest and guaranteeing effective management of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. [[11.50 hours]] The basic principle of good governance is that no individual should have the power to decide without any form of control. Therefore, at least one other person should review such decision before making significant decisions regarding the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the risk management system, measures taken by insurance and reinsurance undertakings should include the establishment, implementation, maintenance and monitoring of practices and procedures under the risk management policy of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, taking into account the key areas of their activities. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings should have adequate internal controls in place to ensure that all persons responsible for operation and supervision act in accordance with the objectives of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. In order to ensure that the economic valuation is reliable, accurate and in accordance with Article 75 of Directive 2009/138, it is important to establish and carry out appropriate internal controls on the valuation of the assets and liabilities of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, including an independent review and verification of the information, data and assumptions used. In order to ensure that the valuation of the technical reserve is carried out in accordance with Articles 76 to 85 of Directive 2009/138, the management and control system of insurance and reinsurance undertakings should include a process for verifying the validity of the calculation of technical provisions. In order to guarantee independence in the context of the management and control system, a person or an organisational unit performing a specific function should be able to fulfil the related obligations objectively and impartially and report directly to the administrative, management or control body on the relevant findings. In order to allow supervisory authorities to take corrective measures in due time, where necessary, insurance and reinsurance undertakings should inform the supervisory authority in due time of any person who actually manages an insurance or reinsurance undertaking or has other key functions, together with all the information necessary to assess whether those persons are eligible and sound. Although it is recognised that insurance undertakings, reinsurance undertakings or supervisory authorities should not be burdened unnecessarily, notification by insurance or reinsurance undertakings should not mean prior approval by the supervisory authority. Where the supervisory authority concludes that a person does not meet the requirements of integrity and competence under Directive 2009/138, it should have the power to require insurance or reinsurance undertakings to replace that person. In order to assess the reputation of persons who actually manage or hold other key functions in an insurance or reinsurance undertaking, the conduct of such persons in the past should be examined in order to determine whether they are capable of effectively fulfilling their obligations in accordance with applicable rules, legislation and guidelines. Information on previous negotiations may be information from criminal records or financial records. The way in which a person has acted in trade in the past may indicate whether he is blameless. In order to ensure that the external provision of functions and activities is carried out effectively and thus does not weaken the obligations which the insurance and reinsurance undertaking has to fulfil under Directive 2009/138, it is necessary to lay down requirements concerning the choice of the service provider, the written contract to be concluded and the systematic verification of the service provider to be carried out by the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. Policies and remuneration practices that encourage risk taking beyond the authorised limits of the scope of insurance and reinsurance undertakings' risk may weaken the effective risk management of such undertakings. It is therefore necessary to define the remuneration requirements in order to ensure sound and prudent management of the activity and to avoid such remuneration that encourages excessive risks to be taken. The definition of the circumstances in which the capital add-on may be imposed and the methodology for calculating it should ensure that the capital add-on is an effective and in practice applicable supervisory instrument which protects policyholders and beneficiaries by calculating the Solvency Capital Requirement, which adequately reflects the overall risk profile of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. The amounts of the capital add-on shall be numerically positive. The definition should also take into account the need to develop coherent and common approaches to similar circumstances. To this end, reference percentages and limits could be used as assumptions for assessing the derogations, but there should be no deviation from the main objective, which consists in an appropriate increase in the capital requirement for the insurance or reinsurance undertaking concerned. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. For the purposes of Article 4 (4) of Directive 2009/138, when deciding whether there has been an exceptional adverse situation affecting insurance and reinsurance undertakings with a significant market share or the types of insurance concerned, it should take into account all relevant factors at the level of the market or type of insurance concerned, including the factors set out in this Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. The supervisory authority should, when deciding whether to extend the corrective period and when determining the length of such extension for the insurance or reinsurance undertaking concerned by a maximum of seven years, as provided for in Article 4 (4) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Directive 2009/138 requires insurance and reinsurance undertakings to disclose their solvency and financial situation. It would be appropriate to define the detailed and harmonised requirements governing the information to be disclosed and the means to be achieved in order to guarantee equivalent market conditions and the smooth functioning of the insurance and reinsurance market throughout the Union and to facilitate the effective integration of those markets throughout the Union. The application of the principle of proportionality in the field of disclosure should not result in the requirement for insurance and reinsurance undertakings to disclose information which is not relevant to their activity or is not relevant. When referring to equivalent information published in accordance with other legal or regulatory requirements, such references should be directed directly to the information itself and should not be references to a general document. Where the supervisory authorities of insurance undertakings or reinsurance undertakings in accordance with Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, they shall: Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Such authorisation should remain in force only for the duration of the reason for non-publication. Where such a reason ceases, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall disclose the relevant information, but only from the date of expiry of the reason. Directive 2009/138 requires Member States to ensure that supervisory authorities have the power to require all the information necessary for the exercise of supervision. An important part of such information should be information that must be transmitted regularly to the supervisory authorities. Detailed and harmonised requirements should be adopted to regulate the information to be submitted on a regular basis and how this is to be achieved in order to ensure effective convergence of the control process by the supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u31	I'm gonna cut you off for a minute. I'll ask my colleagues for peace. If they're discussing something else, let it be in the foyer. I'll read an apology. He apologizes from today's meeting until the end of the sitting day from 11.45 a.m. to Mrs Olga Richterová. Again, Mr. Ambassador, I draw your attention to § 95 para. 2. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u32	I am constantly thinking of it, Mr President, and I am really going to put forward the proposal at the end of my speech, but I have to give it a proper statement first. Otherwise, the House might not approve of the proposal I make, and I would not forgive myself. [[Scream of laughter from the left side of the hall.]] Directive 2009/138 requires insurance and reinsurance undertakings to disclose their solvency and financial situation. It would be appropriate to define the detailed and harmonised requirements governing the information to be disclosed and the means to be achieved in order to guarantee equivalent market conditions and the smooth functioning of the insurance and reinsurance market throughout the Union and to facilitate the effective integration of those markets across the Union. The application of the principle of proportionality in the field of disclosure should not result in the requirement for insurance and reinsurance undertakings to disclose information which is not relevant to their activity or is not relevant. When referring to equivalent information published in accordance with other legal or regulatory requirements, such references should be directed directly to the information itself and should not be references to a general document. Where the supervisory authorities of insurance undertakings or reinsurance undertakings in accordance with Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, they shall: Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Such authorisation should remain in force only for the duration of the reason for non-publication. Where such a reason ceases, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall disclose the relevant information, but only from the date of expiry of the reason. Directive 2009/138 requires Member States to ensure that supervisory authorities have the power to require all the information necessary for the exercise of supervision. An important part of such information should be information that must be transmitted regularly to the supervisory authorities. Detailed and harmonised requirements should be adopted to regulate the information to be submitted on a regular basis and how this is to be achieved in order to ensure effective convergence of the control process by the supervisory authorities. The information that insurance and reinsurance undertakings must regularly submit to supervisory authorities shall include the solvency and financial situation report. In addition, they should provide a regular supervisory report containing additional information on the information contained in the solvency and financial situation report necessary for the exercise of supervision. In the interests of insurance and reinsurance undertakings and supervisory authorities, these two reports should have the same structure. On the basis of a risk assessment carried out by insurance and reinsurance undertakings in accordance with Article 36 of Directive 2009/138/EC, supervisory authorities may require insurance or reinsurance undertakings to provide them with a regular supervisory report each year. If this is not the case and insurance and reinsurance undertakings submit a regular supervisory report only every three years, they should nevertheless inform the supervisory authorities each year of all relevant events that have occurred since the last reporting period. The quantitative and qualitative information should be regularly published or submitted to supervisory authorities in the form of a descriptive report and sample tables. The model tables should specify in more detail the information in the descriptive report and, where appropriate, supplement them. However, in addition to the information already provided in the solvency and financial situation report, the report and tables should provide supervisory authorities with sufficient information to enable them to fulfil their obligations under Directive 2009/138, insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings should not incur unnecessary burdens. The range of sample tables to be submitted on a quarterly basis should be narrower than the range of sample tables to be submitted on a yearly basis. The application of the principle of proportionality in the field of notification to supervisory authorities should not result in the provision of information which is not relevant or not relevant to their activities from insurance and reinsurance undertakings or branches established in the Union. The criteria and methods of the supervisory process should be published. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. In particular, in order to assess the appropriateness of risk management by insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings and their ability to withstand adverse events or changes, Directive 2009/138, and in particular to assess the suitability of risk management by insurance and reinsurance undertakings. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) Directive 2009/138/EC is intended to provide general information on insurance in individual States as well as on important activities of the supervisory authorities themselves. The relevant information should cover data on both quantitative and qualitative requirements and complement aggregated national data that are reported in such a way as to be comparable over time. In order to ensure comparability of information published for supervisory purposes, at least a list of key aspects of the application of the prudential framework on which supervisory authorities are to publish aggregated data should be defined. The exposure of the special purpose vehicle should always be limited in order to ensure that the special purpose vehicle has assets equal to or greater than its aggregate maximum exposure to risks. Where a special purpose vehicle takes risks from more than one insurance or reinsurance undertaking, that special purpose vehicle should be protected at all times from the winding-up procedure of any insurance or reinsurance undertaking that carries the risks to that special purpose vehicle. The assessment of the eligibility and integrity requirements of shareholders or members having a qualifying participation in a special purpose vehicle and of all persons actually managing a special purpose vehicle should, where appropriate, take into account similar requirements applicable to insurance and reinsurance undertakings. The transfer of risk from an insurance or reinsurance undertaking to a special purpose vehicle and from a special purpose vehicle to a bond lender or a finance provider should not include any related transaction that could jeopardise an effective transfer of risk, such as contractual rights under netting agreements or by-laws to reduce potential or actual losses arising from the transfer of risks to a bond lender or a finance provider and to a special purpose vehicle. In order to ensure that the inclusion of future payments does not weaken the effective transfer of risk from an insurance or reinsurance undertaking to a special purpose vehicle, it is important that the absence of payment does not adversely affect the primary capital of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking. In determining that there is no scenario in which such a situation might arise, an insurance or reinsurance undertaking should consider all scenarios taken into account in contractual arrangements and any other scenarios, unless there is a likelihood of such additional scenarios occurring too low. [[12.10 hours]] Article 220 of Directive 2009/138 requires the calculation of solvency at group level to be carried out in accordance with method 1, the method of accounting consolidation, except where the application of method 1 alone would not be appropriate. The group supervisor should consider a number of harmonised important elements when assessing whether method 1 or in combination with method 2 should be used, which is the method of deduction of aggregated data. One such element is whether the use of the method one would not be too burdensome and whether the nature, scope and complexity of the risks of the group are such that the use of the method two would not be significantly affected by the results of the calculation. Where it is verified for this purpose that the results of the group solvency calculation would be substantially affected by the use of method two, method two should be compared with method one, using the aggregate applicable group capital and the aggregate group solvency capital requirement calculated in accordance with Directive 2009/138, and not the solvency requirements laid down in the equivalent third country. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) In order to determine whether or not the solvency schemes of those third countries are equivalent or temporarily equivalent, the group supervisor should give priority to the method instead of method one, which is consolidation, or in combination with method two, which, as you remember, is the method of deduction of aggregated data. Directive 2009/138 provides that where supervisory authorities consider that certain own funds applicable to the Solvency Capital Requirement of an associated insurance or reinsurance undertaking cannot be made available effectively to cover the group Solvency Capital Requirement, that own funds may only be included in the calculation to the extent that it is applicable to the Solvency Capital Requirement of an associated undertaking. In this context, when considering whether an associate insurance or reinsurance undertaking's own funds cannot be made available effectively to a group, supervisory authorities should base their decisions on whether there are any restrictions that affect the representativeness of the related own funds items, i.e. whether they are earmarked to absorb only certain losses or their transferability, i.e. whether there are significant obstacles to the transfer of own funds from one entity to another. For the purpose of this assessment, supervisory authorities should pay particular attention to any minority interest in eligible own funds covering the Solvency Capital Requirement of a subsidiary insurance or reinsurance undertaking, insurance or reinsurance undertaking in a third country, insurance holding company or mixed financial holding company. In order to ensure that policyholders and authorised persons of insurance and reinsurance undertakings belonging to a group are adequately protected in the event of the liquidation of undertakings falling within the scope of group supervision, the capital items issued by insurance holding companies and mixed financial holding companies in a group should not be considered as free of charge unless claims relating to those capital items are classified as claims on all policyholders and entitled persons of insurance and reinsurance undertakings belonging to the group. Appropriate rules on the treatment of special purpose vehicles should be laid down at group level. In this context, special purpose vehicles defined under Directive 2009/138 which either comply with the requirements of that Directive or are regulated by a third country supervisory authority and meet equivalent requirements should not be fully consolidated. The calculation of the best estimate of technical provisions at group level in accordance with method one, which is therefore a method of accounting consolidation, should be based on the assumption that the sum of the best estimates of the participating insurance or reinsurance undertaking and the proportion of the best estimate of their affiliated insurance or reinsurance undertakings where each of them is adjusted for intra-group transactions is approximately the same as the amount that would result from the calculation of the best estimate for consolidated insurance and reinsurance obligations at group level in accordance with Articles 75 to 86 of Directive 2009/138. In particular, where the best estimates of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking from a third country are used in such calculation, those best estimates should be assessed in accordance with those Articles. The calculation of the risk premium for technical provisions at group level in accordance with method one, which is, as I recall again, the method of accounting consolidation, should be based on the assumption that the transfer of group insurance and reinsurance obligations is carried out separately for each insurance and reinsurance undertaking in the group and that the risk premium does not allow diversification between the risks of those insurance and reinsurance undertakings. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The calculation should be based on the assumption that the transfer of the portfolio of insurance obligations for life and non-life insurance activities is carried out separately. The group may request the approval of the use of two types of internal models to calculate its consolidated group solvency capital requirement. Where an internal model is used only for the calculation of the consolidated group Solvency Capital Requirement and is not used for the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement of individual insurance or reinsurance undertakings in a group, Article 230 of Directive 2009/138 should apply. In this context, it is necessary to ensure that the approval of an internal model used only for the calculation of the consolidated Solvency Capital Requirement is carried out by the group supervisor in a manner consistent with the provisions of that Directive on the internal models approval procedure applied at individual level, including the implementing act referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) of Directive 2009/138/EC. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In order to strengthen cooperation in the college of supervisors, it is necessary to determine how other supervisory authorities should be involved in the activities of the group supervisor before taking a decision on this request. Where a group requests approval of the use of the same internal module for the calculation of the consolidated Solvency Capital Requirement as well as the Solvency Capital Requirement of an associate insurance or reinsurance undertaking in a group, Article 231 of Directive 2009/138 should apply. In order to ensure in this context that the group supervisor and other supervisory authorities concerned cooperate effectively and make informed joint decisions on whether to allow the use of this internal model, it is necessary to define the provisions on the necessary documentation and on the procedure for the joint decision on the application. The approval of an internal model used only for the calculation of a consolidated group solvency capital requirement granted under Article 230 of Directive 2009/138 should not affect any future authorisation under Article 231 of that Directive. Any application for authorisation to calculate a consolidated group Solvency Capital Requirement together with the Solvency Capital Requirement of an associate insurance or reinsurance undertaking in a group on the basis of an internal model already approved in accordance with Article 230 of Directive 2009/138 should, in particular, be governed by the procedure laid down in Article 231 of that Directive. The group should apply for permission to use a partial internal model for the calculation of the consolidated group solvency capital requirement where only certain affiliated undertakings are included in the scope of the group internal model, or in the context of the limited scope referred to in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[12.20 hours]] In order to be widely used and significant in the group's management and control system, the internal model output should be used by insurance and reinsurance undertakings whose activities fall wholly or partly within the scope of the internal model in order to calculate only the consolidated group Solvency Capital Requirement. In this context, these insurance and reinsurance undertakings should not be required to meet the requirements for use control as if they were using this internal model to calculate their Solvency Capital Requirement. The requirement to meet the use control should be limited to the output of that internal model for those insurance and reinsurance undertakings and should serve for the purpose of the uniform application of risk management and internal control systems across the group. In assessing whether the conditions laid down in Article 236 of Directive 2009/138, the group supervisor concerned and the other supervisory authorities concerned should take into account a number of harmonised relevant criteria in order to guarantee harmonised supervision of group solvency for groups with centralised risk management. In order to achieve effective cooperation in the supervision of subsidiaries, insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings in a group with centralised risk management as provided for in Articles 237 to 243 of Directive 2009/138, it is of the utmost importance to harmonise the procedures to be followed by supervisory authorities in the supervision of such subsidiaries, insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings. In order to determine clearly when an emergency situation occurred within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. The supervisory authority which has granted approval to a subsidiary of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking with a worsening financial situation should take into account a number of harmonised criteria. The college of supervisors should be a permanent platform for the coordination of supervisors, should promote a common understanding of the risk profile of the group and its associated insurance and reinsurance undertakings, and aim for a more effective and efficient and risk-based supervision at both group and individual level. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the college in this context, it is necessary to lay down criteria for assessing which branch is significant for the purposes of the participation of bodies supervising major branches in the college. It is also important to harmonise the requirements relating to the coordination of supervision of groups of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in order to promote convergence of supervisory practices. Directive 2009/138 requires insurance and reinsurance undertakings holding a holding company or mixed financial holding company to disclose information on the solvency and financial situation of the group. That Directive also allows them to submit one joint solvency and financial report containing both information on the group and information on the solvency and financial situation required for any of its subsidiaries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u33	I will just take a brief breath, Mr President, to introduce the House to the fact that, from today's meeting from 13:00 to the end of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes for reasons of work. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u34	Thank you. The scheme is designed to ensure that the stakeholders are duly informed of the solvency and financial situation of the insurance and reinsurance groups and, at the same time, to reduce to an appropriate extent the associated burden on such groups. In this context, it is necessary to harmonise the disclosure requirements of groups of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, irrespective of whether such groups make use of the possibility to provide one joint solvency and financial situation report. Detailed and harmonised requirements should be adopted to regulate the information to be submitted on a regular basis by insurance and reinsurance groups in order to ensure effective convergence of the control process by the group supervisory authorities. Those requirements should also facilitate the exchange of information within colleges of supervisors and, where possible, reduce the associated burden on such groups of insurance and reinsurance undertakings. Assessment pursuant to Articles 172, 227 and 260 of Directive 2009/138 on whether a third country's solvency or prudential regime is equivalent to that provided for in Title In order to ensure that a third country's solvency or prudential regime demonstrates an equivalent level of protection to the policyholder and authorised persons as provided for in that Directive, it should be implemented on a consistent basis and with a view to ensuring that a third country's solvency or prudential regime has an equivalent level of protection. The assessment provided for in Articles 172, 227 and 260 of Directive 2009/138 on whether a third country's solvency or prudential regime is equivalent to that provided for in Title I or Title III of that Directive should be carried out on the basis of the criteria laid down in this Regulation, in Article 378 as regards Article 172, in Article 379 as regards Article 227 and in Article 380 as regards Article 260. The determination of whether the criteria to be taken into account in the assessment of equivalence of a third country regime should be based on the substance of legislation and other regulatory requirements in the Solvency or prudential regime of that third country, as well as on how those legislation and requirements are implemented and applied, and on the procedures of supervisory authorities in that third country. Such determination should also take into account the extent to which supervisory authorities in a third country apply the proportionality principle laid down in Directive 2009/138. In order to ensure that the effects of a positive finding on equivalence as set out in Article 172 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are satisfied, it is necessary to ensure that the effects of a positive finding on equivalence set out in Article 172 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are: The criteria for assessing equivalence in accordance with Article 172 of that Directive should include the principles set out in Title I on general rules for access to and pursuit of reinsurance activities. In order to ensure that the result of taking into account the Solvency Capital Requirement and the applicable own funds determined by the third country for the determination of the solvency group in which Method 2 is used is a determination of the solvency group equivalent to that which would result if the requirements laid down in Directive 2009/138 were applied, the criteria for assessing the equivalence of Article 227 of that Directive should include the principles set out in Chapter VI of Title I on the rules for valuation of assets and liabilities, technical provisions, capital, Solvency Capital Requirement, Minimum Capital Requirement and Investment Rules. In order to ensure that the exemption exempting a group from the supervision of a group at Union level does not undermine the essential role conferred on the group by Directive 2009/138, the criteria for assessing equivalence under Article 260 of that Directive should include the principles set out in Title III on the supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the group. [[12.30 hours]] The supervisory authorities in the Member States and supervisory authorities in third countries for which a positive equivalence decision has been taken or subject to a temporary or provisional equivalence regime should cooperate and exchange information to ensure that a clear mutual understanding of the risks to the solvency of the group is achieved. In order to ensure that supervisory authorities can exchange information, supervisory authorities in third countries for which a positive equivalence decision has been issued or which is subject to a temporary or provisional equivalence regime should be subject to an obligation to maintain professional secrecy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) The Commission shall review the methods, assumptions and standard parameters used in the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement using the standard formula, in particular the methods, assumptions and standard parameters used in the market risk module set out in Section 6 of Chapter V of Title I, including the review of standard parameters for fixed-income securities and long-term infrastructure, the standard parameters for risk of insurance premiums and the risk of provisions set out in Annex II, the standard parameters for risk of mortality, as well as sub-groups of standard parameters which may be replaced by the parameters specific to the insurance or reinsurance undertaking referred to in Annex II. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 220. This review should take advantage of the experience gained by insurance and reinsurance undertakings during the transitional period and in the first years of application of those delegated acts and should be carried out before December 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 308a Directive 2009/138, which started on 1 April 2015, is important to ensure that this Regulation enters into force as soon as possible, on the first day following that of its publication. That was, please, 150 reasons. 150 reasons why the European Union has acceded to the Solvency II Directive. And you, who listened carefully, certainly noticed that one reason was not about taxing the technical provisions, which the representatives of the Ministry of Finance insist on their argument. Now, therefore, what is the real purpose of this regulation, which is the information that we need to know when we vote on the taxation of technical provisions, and at which conclusion, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, I will present my proposal to the House. Therefore, the European Commission has adopted this regulation, where, in Title I, capital requirements are valued based on risks, which is pillar 1, strengthening, management and control, which is pillar 2, and an increase in transparency, which is pillar 3. To understand the meaning of this text, I must first explain the necessary definitions. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be reported in column 060 of this row. 75 of Directive 2009/138 other than methods which use exclusively quoted market prices for the same or similar assets or liabilities. The analysis of the scenario means an analysis of the impact of a combination of adverse events. A health insurance obligation means an insurance obligation that applies to one or both of the following points. It is either medical treatment or medical care, or financial compensation resulting from illness, injury, disability and deterioration of the health condition. Income protection insurance liability means an insurance obligation which covers the financial compensation referred to in point 3 other than the financial compensation referred to in point 3/i. A liability for employer's liability insurance for damage or accident at work or occupational disease shall mean an insurance obligation which relates to the provision of care or financial compensation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 points i and i2 which result only from accidents at work or occupational disease. A health insurance liability is a reinsurance undertaking that results from the reinsurance accepted which relates to the health insurance obligations. This is the total amount of technical provisions that meet the criteria for Tier 1. A liability arising from insurance of protection of income is a liability arising from the reinsurance accepted which relates to obligations relating to insurance of protection of income. A liability for insurance of the employer's liability for damage to work accidents or occupational diseases is a liability arising from reinsurance obligations arising from reinsurance obligations arising from insurance of employer's liability for damage to work accidents or occupational diseases. Prescribed insurance means the prescribed insurance premiums to be paid to an insurance or reinsurance undertaking during a specific period, regardless of whether the premium relates in whole or in part to the insurance or reinsurance cover provided in another period. This is the total amount of subordinated mutual member accounts that meet the criteria for Tier 1. Any possible means of complete or partial termination of an insurance contract, including voluntary termination of an insurance contract with or without the value of the seller, changes in the insurance or reinsurance undertaking of the policyholder, termination of an insurance contract as a result of the policyholder's refusal to pay the insurance policy, shall be understood as a repurchase agreement. The termination of an insurance contract means the payment of a repurchase agreement, a cancellation without value, the repayment of an insurance contract, the provisions on the automatic non-deficit of the policyholder's claims or the execution of other options for termination or failure to exercise the possibility of continuation. The possibility of termination shall mean all legal or contractual rights of the policyholder which allow him to completely or partially terminate the insurance cover, to apply redemptions, to reduce, limit or suspend or authorise the cancellation policy. The possibility of continuation shall mean any legal or contractual rights of the policyholder which enable him to obtain, recover, increase or renew insurance or reinsurance cover in whole or in part. Coverage of an internal model means the risks that are reflected in the probability distribution forecast on which the internal model is based. The scope of the internal model shall mean the risks which the internal model may cover according to the approval. The scope of the internal model may include both risks that are reflected in the standard formula for the Solvency Capital Requirement and risks that are not reflected therein. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[12.40 hours]] The re-secuted position shall mean the exposure to re-secutation within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's The originator shall be the originator within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning The sponsor shall be a sponsor within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms Transhipment means a tranche within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (a) of the Code. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for A central bank shall mean a central bank within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of The risk shall be the risk arising from the situation where the exposure covered by the risk mitigation technique does not correspond to the exposure of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. The collateral arrangements shall mean arrangements whereby collateral providers take one of these steps. They shall either transfer the full ownership of the collateral to the collateral recipient for collateral purposes or otherwise cover the performance of the relevant liability, or provide collateral in the form of collateral to or directly to the collateral recipient and the legal ownership of the collateral shall remain with the collateral provider or guarantor provided that the right of collateral is provided. All possible combinations of two items in relation to the set of items are all arranged pairs of items from this file. A merger arrangement means an arrangement in which several insurance and reinsurance undertakings agree to share identified insurance risks in defined shares. The parties which are insured by the members of the merger arrangement are not themselves members of the merger arrangement. The total exposure of type A is the risk that the insurance or reinsurance undertaking forwards to the merger arrangement and that insurance or reinsurance undertaking is not a member of the merger arrangement. The total exposure of type B is the risk that the insurance or reinsurance undertaking forwards to the merger arrangement and that insurance or reinsurance undertaking is a member of that merger arrangement. The total exposure of type C shall be the risk that the insurance or reinsurance undertaking that is a member of the merger arrangement shall forward to another insurance or reinsurance undertaking that is not a member of the merger arrangement. A deep market means a market in which transactions involving a large number of financial instruments may take place without significantly affecting the price of those instruments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u35	Mr President, I'm only going to take advantage of that brief break in your performance again. Mrs Ivana Nevludová apologizes today from 13:30 pm to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u36	Well, that's gonna lose my argument. A liquid market means a market in which financial instruments can be easily converted through purchase or sale without a significant price movement. Transparent market means a market on which current commercial and price information is readily available to the public and, in particular, insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings. Future unguaranteeed profit shares are future claims other than claims linked to an index or value of a unit resulting from insurance or reinsurance contracts having one of the following characteristics: they are legally or contractually based on one or more of the following results or results of a specified group of contracts or specified type of contracts or a single contract or realised or unrealistic return on investment in a specified set of assets held by an insurance or reinsurance undertaking or the profit or loss of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking or fund corresponding to the contract. They are based on an insurance or reinsurance undertaking's declaration and the timing or amount of insurance transactions depend entirely or partly on their discretion. The basic time structure of risk-free interest rates means the time structure of risk-free interest rates which is derived in the same way as the relevant risk-free interest rate term structure to be used to calculate the best estimate referred to in Article 77 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 112 point (b) of CRR. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Directive 2009/138. Health insurance obligations means health insurance obligations assigned to life insurance obligations under Article 55 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 1. A collective investment undertaking shall mean undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities as defined in Article 1 (1) of Directive 2014/65/EU. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Directive 2011/61 of the European Parliament and of the Council. As regards the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, a larger business entity shall mean a defined segment of the insurance and reinsurance undertaking which operates independently of the other parts of the undertaking and has the control and management resources and procedures allocated within the undertaking and contains risks which are relevant in relation to the whole business activity of the undertaking. As regards the group of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, a larger business entity shall mean a defined segment of the group which operates independently of the other parts of the group and has within the group the control and management resources and procedures assigned and contains risks that are relevant in relation to the whole of the group's activities. Each legal entity belonging to a group is a larger business entity or consists of several larger business entities. Where national legislation provides for the possibility of establishing a two-tier management board consisting of the managing authority and the control authority, the managing authority or control authority, or both, as defined in the relevant national legislation, or where the relevant national law does not define any authority, i.e. the managing authority, shall be the managing authority. [[12.50 hours]] The aggregate maximum exposure to risks shall mean the sum of the maximum payments, including expenditure which may arise from special purpose vehicles, except for expenditure which meets all of the following criteria: the special purpose vehicle shall have the right to require insurance or reinsurance undertakings which have transferred risks to cover such expenditure; the special purpose vehicle does not have to pay such expenditure unless and until an amount equal to the expenditure has been received from the insurance or reinsurance undertaking which has transferred the risks to that unit; the insurance or reinsurance undertaking that transferred the risks to the special purpose vehicle does not include that expenditure as an amount recoverable from the special purpose vehicle pursuant to point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. An existing insurance or reinsurance contract shall mean an insurance or reinsurance contract the insurance or reinsurance obligations of which have been recognised. The expected profit, including future premiums, shall be the expected present value of future cash flows resulting from the incorporation of premiums relating to existing insurance and reinsurance contracts that are expected to be received but not received in technical provisions, without prejudice to the legal or contractual rights of the policyholder to terminate the insurance policy for any reason other than the occurrence of an insurance claim. [[♪ Will be ♪]] Insurance of a mortgage means insurance of a loan that provides cover for creditors in the event that their mortgage loan is not repaid. A subsidiary shall be understood as any subsidiary within the meaning of Article 22 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. An association undertaking shall mean either a subsidiary or another undertaking in which the participation is held or an undertaking attached to another undertaking through the relations referred to in Article 22 (1). Directive 2013/34. A regulated undertaking shall mean a regulated undertaking within the meaning of Article 2 (4) of Directive 2002/87 of the European Parliament and of the Council. A regulated undertaking shall mean any undertaking other than those referred to in Article 2 (4) of Directive 2002/87. A non-regulated undertaking carrying out financial activities shall mean an unregulated undertaking which carries out one or more of the activities listed in the Annex to Directive 2013/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council where those activities represent a significant part of its overall activity. Ancillary services undertaking means an unregulated undertaking whose main activity is ownership or management of real estate, the management of data processing services, the provision of health and care services or other similar activities by which it assists in the main activities of one or more insurance or reinsurance undertakings. A management company shall mean a management company within the meaning of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Directive 2009/65 or an investment company authorised under Article 27 of that Directive, unless it has designated a management company pursuant to that Directive. The AIFM of an AIF shall mean the AIFM of an AIF within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Directive 2011/61. Institutions of occupational retirement provision means institutions within the meaning of Article 6 (a) of Directive 2009/138/EC. (a) Directive 2003/41. A domestic insurance undertaking means an undertaking which has obtained authorisation from the supervisory authorities of a third country and is subject to the supervision of those authorities which, should its registered office be located in the Union, would require authorisation as an insurance undertaking in accordance with Article 14 of Directive 2009/138. - Sorry. [[The speaker listens in his background.]] Yes. And now what credit assessments we have of issuers and emissions, which, of course, also has an impact on the cost of life insurance that the government's proposal wants to tax. Where there is a credit assessment of a specific emission programme that includes an item representing an exposure, the following credit assessment shall apply. Where there is no directly applicable credit assessment for an item, but there is a credit assessment of a specific emission programme to which an item representing an exposure does not belong, or there is a general credit assessment of the issuer, this credit assessment shall be used in any of the following cases: the assessment shall result in the same or higher capital requirement as the requirement that would arise under other circumstances, and the exposure in question shall in all respects be at the same level as the specific emission programme or preferably unsecured exposure of the issuer, depending on what is on the place or subject to it; the assessment shall give rise to the same or lower capital requirement as the requirement that would arise under other circumstances, and the exposure in question is, in all respects, at the same level as the specific emission programme or the preferred unsecured exposure of the issuer, depending on what is on the spot or is superior to it. In all other cases, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall consider that no credit assessment is available from the designated ECAI for the exposure in question. Credit assessments of issuers within a group of companies shall not be used as credit assessments of another issuer within the same group of companies. What is a double credit rating, we also need to know. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (d) where only one credit assessment is available from a designated ECAI for a securitisation position, this credit assessment shall not apply. The own funds requirements for that item shall be derived in the same way as when no credit assessment is available from a designated ECAI. The valuation assumptions are such that insurance and reinsurance undertakings value assets and liabilities on the assumption that the undertaking will continue its activities. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall report assets and liabilities in accordance with the international accounting standards adopted by the Commission under Regulation No 1606/2002. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall value assets and liabilities in accordance with the international accounting standards adopted by the Commission under Regulation 1606/2002 where those standards contain valuation methods consistent with the valuation approach referred to in Article 75 of Directive 2009/138. Where those standards allow more valuation methods to be applied, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall only use valuation methods which comply with Directive 2009/138. Where valuation methods in international accounting standards adopted by the Commission under Regulation No 1606/2002 do not comply with the valuation approach laid down in Article 75 of Directive 2009/138, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall apply other valuation methods which are deemed to comply with Article 75 of Directive 2009/138. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2, in particular in compliance with the principle of proportionality laid down in Article 29 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it shall apply from 1 January 2018. In accordance with Article 75 of Directive 2009/138, insurance and reinsurance undertakings may report and measure an asset or liability on the basis of the valuation method they use in the preparation of annual or consolidated accounts, provided that either the valuation method complies with Article 75 of Directive 2009/138; or the valuation method is proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the risks arising from the activity of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking; or the insurance or reinsurance undertaking does not value the asset or liability in its financial statements using international accounting standards adopted by the Commission in accordance with Regulation No 1606/2002; the valuation of assets and liabilities using international accounting standards would incur costs which would not be proportional to the total administrative expenditure. [[13.00 hours]] Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall measure individual assets separately. Insurance companies and reinsurance companies - sorry, I'd say that again. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall measure individual assets separately. What is the responsibility for those institutions to which you want to tax technical provisions, what is the hierarchy in the valuation methodology? The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, The valuation hierarchy defined in paragraphs 2 to 7 shall be governed by paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, taking into account the property of an asset or liability, where such characteristics would be taken into account by market participants when determining the prices of an asset or liability at the date of the valuation, including the status and location of an asset or liability and any restrictions on the sale or use of an asset. The standard valuation method is that insurance and reinsurance undertakings value assets and liabilities using quoted market prices on active markets for the same assets or liabilities. Where the use of quoted market prices on active markets for the same assets or liabilities is not possible, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall measure assets and liabilities using quoted market prices on active markets for similar assets or liabilities to be adjusted to take account of differences. (a) the status or location of the asset or liability, (b) the extent to which inputs relate to items comparable to that asset or liability, (c) the volume or level of activity on the markets on which inputs are observed. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall use quoted market prices on the basis of criteria for active markets defined in international accounting standards adopted by the Commission. Where the criteria referred to in paragraph 1 are not met, the competent authority shall: For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: [[Short delay.]] Sorry. When using alternative methods of valuation of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, they shall use to the minimum extent possible the inputs specific to the undertaking and shall make use of relevant market inputs, including those inputs, as far as possible. These are inputs: quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; inputs other than quoted prices that can be identified for an asset or liability, including interest rates and yield curves detectable at normal intervals, related volatility and credit spreads; (c) market-confirmed inputs which may not be directly detectable but are based on identifiable market data or supported by such data. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 3. To the extent that relevant identifiable inputs are not available even in circumstances where the valuation date takes place for an asset or liability only marginally, if any, market activities, undertakings shall use undetectable inputs which reflect the assumptions that market participants would use to determine the price of the asset or liability, including risk assumptions. Where undetectable inputs are used, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall adjust the business-specific data if the relevant information available shows that other market participants would use other data or that the undertaking is characterised by a particular characteristic that is not available to other market participants. When assessing the risk assumptions referred to in this paragraph, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall take into account the risk associated with a particular valuation technique used to measure fair value and the risk associated with the inputs of that valuation technique. When using alternative valuation methods for insurance and reinsurance undertakings, valuation techniques that are consistent with one or more of the following approaches shall be used: (a) market access using prices and other relevant information generated in market transactions involving the same or similar assets, liabilities or groups of assets and liabilities. The valuation techniques that are in line with market approach include matrix valuations; with a revenue-based approach that transfers future amounts, such as cash flows or revenue or expenditure, to a single current amount. The fair value reflects current market expectations regarding these future amounts. The valuation techniques that are in line with the yield approach include valuation techniques using current value, municipal valuation models and the multi-period increase method, which is the multi-period approach; with a cost-based or normal reproductive price approach reflecting the amount that would be required to replace the asset's performance capacity. From the point of view of the seller of the market participant, the price that would have been obtained for a particular asset is based on the costs incurred by the buyer of the market participant in the acquisition or manufacture of a replacement asset of comparable quality, adjusted for obsolescence. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) (a) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Contingent liabilities are essential where information on the current or potential size or nature of the liabilities may affect the decision or judgment of the anticipated user of such information, including supervisory authorities. What are the methods used for intangible assets and the valuation of goodwill. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall measure the following assets at zero if it is, first, goodwill; second, intangible assets other than goodwill; where the intangible asset cannot be sold separately and the insurance and reinsurance undertaking has not been able to demonstrate that there is a value for the same or similar assets that has been derived in accordance with Article 10 (1) of Directive 2009/138/EC. 2 in which case the asset shall be valued in accordance with Article 10. [[13.10 hours]] Conversely, for affiliated undertakings it is necessary to use a different method and to measure the assets of individual insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings, they shall appreciate the participation in affiliated undertakings within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (a) of Directive 2009/138/EC. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Directive 2009/138, according to the following hierarchy of methods: OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (b) by the adjusted equivalence method referred to in paragraph 3, where the valuation referred to in point (a) is not possible; (c) either using the valuation method set out in Article 4 (1) (c) of CRR. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Where all the following conditions are met: the valuation referred to in point (a) or (b) may not be carried out; the undertaking is not a subsidiary within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Article 2 (2) of Directive 2009/138. The amount to be reported in column 010 of this row shall be reported in column 060 of this row. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Directive 2009/138; (b) in undertakings which are deducted from eligible own funds for group solvency in accordance with Article 229 of Directive 2009/138. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) requires a participating undertaking to appreciate its participation in ancillary undertakings on the basis of a share in which assets exceed the liabilities of an associated undertaking held by a participating undertaking. When calculating the surplus of assets over the liabilities of the affiliated undertakings, the participating undertaking shall measure the individual assets and liabilities of the undertaking pursuant to Article 75 of Directive 2009/138 and, where the associated undertaking is an insurance or reinsurance undertaking or a special purpose vehicle referred to in Article 211 of that Directive, the technical provisions referred to in Articles 76 to 85 of that Directive. When calculating the surplus of assets over the liabilities of the affiliated undertakings, the participating undertaking shall measure the individual assets and liabilities of the undertaking pursuant to Article 75 of Directive 2009/138 and, where the associated undertaking is an insurance or reinsurance undertaking or a special purpose vehicle referred to in Article 211 of that Directive, the technical provisions referred to in Articles 76 to 85 of that Directive. In calculating the surplus of assets over the liabilities of affiliated undertakings other than insurance or reinsurance undertakings, where the valuation of individual assets and liabilities referred to in paragraph 4 cannot be carried out, the participating undertaking may consider the equivalence method laid down in international accounting standards adopted by the Commission pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 1606/2002 for a method that complies with Article 75 of Directive 2009/138. In such cases, the participating undertaking shall deduct from the value of the associate the value of goodwill and other intangible assets that it would have obtained under Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In such cases, the participating undertaking shall deduct from the value of the associate the value of goodwill and other intangible assets that it would have obtained under Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, we must realise that there are also specific commitments that cannot be classified, to be classified in different categories, but also require their methodology. Therefore, insurance and reinsurance undertakings value the financial obligations set out in the international accounting standards adopted by the Commission under Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. IFRS 7.20 (a) (ii) (ii) (i); Annex V.Part 2.17 (b) After initial recognition, no subsequent adjustment shall be made to take into account the change in the own credit rating of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall recognise contingent liabilities recognised in accordance with Article 11. The value of contingent liabilities shall be equal to the expected present value of future cash flows required to offset the contingent liability over the duration of this contingent liability, using the basic time structure of risk-free interest rates. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall report and appreciate deferred tax liability in respect of all assets and liabilities including technical provisions recognised for solvency or tax purposes in accordance with Article 9. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall recognise deferred tax obligations other than those with deferred tax liability arising from the transfer of unused tax deductions and the transfer of unused tax losses, on the basis of the difference between the values attributed to assets and liabilities recognised and valued in accordance with Article 75 of Directive 2009/138 and, in the case of technical provisions, in accordance with Articles 76 to 85 of that Directive and the values attributed to assets and liabilities recognised and recognised for tax purposes. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall grant positive value to deferred tax assets only if the firm is likely to achieve future taxable profits against which the asset with deferred tax liability can be exercised, taking into account any legal or regulatory requirements regarding time limits for the transfer of unused tax losses or unused tax deductions. On the contrary, what methods must we rule out? Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall not value financial assets or financial liabilities at cost or depreciation costs. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall not apply valuation models that value either at book value or at fair value reduced by selling costs, whichever is lower. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall not value real estate, investment real estate, equipment and equipment using cost-based valuation models where the value of the assets is determined as cost-effective, less repair and impairment costs. When assessing the assets and liabilities in the lease agreement of an insurance and reinsurance undertaking that are tenants in a financial lease or lessor, all of the following requirements shall be met: (a) the leased assets shall be valued at fair value; (b) for the purpose of establishing the current value of the market for minimum rent payments, coherent inputs shall be used and no subsequent adjustments shall be made to take account of the undertaking's own credit rating; (c) the valuation shall not apply to the residual value. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall adjust the net realisable value of stocks according to the estimated costs of completion and estimated costs necessary to carry out the sale, if these costs are material. Such costs shall be considered as material if their non-inclusion could affect the decision-making or judgement of the users of the balance sheet, including supervisory authorities. The valuation shall not apply to acquisition costs. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings do not value non-cash subsidies per nominal amount. When assessing the biological assets of the insurance and reinsurance undertaking, it shall adjust the value by adding estimated sales costs where these estimated sales times are material. Now I dare ask you to raise your attention, because we are getting to the heart of the matter, namely the rules for technical reserves. [[Fun in the hall. Madam Secretary - a note off the microphone.]] They know it, I taught it. I taught them. [[13.20 hours]] Rules for technical provisions. When calculating the best estimate and the risk premium for technical provisions, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall report an insurance or reinsurance undertaking on the date of conclusion of the contract on which the liability arises or on the date of the initial insurance or reinsurance coverage, whichever is the earlier. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall only report liabilities up to the level of the contractual borders. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall deduct an insurance or reinsurance undertaking only if they cease to exist, are subject to redemption, are cancelled or expire. What is the contractual limit of the insurance or reinsurance contract? The contractual boundaries of the insurance or reinsurance contract shall be determined in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 7. All obligations relating to the contract, including obligations relating to the unilateral rights of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, shall be subject to the contract, unless otherwise specified in paragraphs 3 to 6. Liabilities relating to insurance or reinsurance cover provided by an insurance or reinsurance undertaking after any of the following dates are not covered by the contract, unless the insurance or reinsurance undertaking is able to get the policyholder to pay the premiums for those liabilities. Well, (a) the future date on which the insurance or reinsurance undertaking has a unilateral right to terminate the contract; (b) the future date on which the insurance or reinsurance undertaking has a unilateral right to refuse insurance premiums due under the contract; (c) the future date on which the insurance or reinsurance undertaking has a unilateral right to change insurance or reinsurance obligations due under the contract, in such a way that the insurance or reinsurance undertaking fully reflects the risks. It is considered that the letter (c) where an insurance or reinsurance undertaking has a unilateral right to change the insurance or reinsurance performance of a portfolio of insurance or reinsurance obligations at a future date in such a way that the insurance portfolio fully reflects the risks covered by that portfolio. However, in the case of life insurance obligations where an individual assessment of the risk of an insured person's obligations is carried out on the basis of a contract and where a new assessment cannot be carried out prior to the change in the amount of insurance or reinsurance obligations, the insurance and reinsurance undertaking shall assess whether the premiums for the purposes of point (c) fully reflect the risks at the level of the contract. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall not take into account the limitation of the unilateral right referred to in points (a), (b) and (c) of this paragraph and the limitation of the extent to which insurance or reinsurance obligations may be amended if they have no significant impact on the contract economy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u37	In the meantime, I'll read your apologies, use your drink. So today from 13.30 to the end of the meeting, Mr Marek Výborný apologizes for family reasons. Mr Jiří Kohoutek also apologizes from 13:00 to the end of the day for family reasons. He also apologizes to Mrs Květa Matušovská from 13:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons. So you've taken another breath, and you're free to proceed, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u38	Thank you, Mr President. You've been my fourth chair since this morning. Where an insurance or reinsurance undertaking has a unilateral right under paragraph 3, which applies only to a part of the contract, the principles set out in paragraph 3 shall apply to that part. Liabilities that are not related to an insurance policy that has already been paid do not belong to an insurance or reinsurance contract where the insurance or reinsurance undertaking cannot force the policyholder to pay future premiums and where all the following requirements are met: the contract does not provide compensation for a particular uncertain event which adversely affects the insured person; the contract does not include a financial guarantee for insurance claims. For the purposes of points (a) and (b), insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall not take into account coverage of events and guarantees which have no significant impact on the economy of the contract. Where an insurance or reinsurance contract can be divided into two parts and one of those parts complies with the requirements set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall not be considered to be part of the insurance or reinsurance contract. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (a) and (b) any liability which does not relate to the insurance of that part and which has already been paid does not belong to the contract, unless the insurance or reinsurance undertaking can force the policyholder to pay future premiums of that part. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall, for the purposes of paragraph 3, take the view that insurance premiums fully reflect the risks covered by the portfolio of insurance or reinsurance obligations only if there is no circumstance in which the amount of premiums and expenses due under the portfolio exceeds the amount of premiums due under the portfolio. Certain data are used to calculate technical provisions. Data used for the calculation of technical provisions shall be considered complete for the purposes of this Directive only if all the following conditions are met: (a) data shall include information for a period which is sufficiently long to assess the characteristics of the underlying risks and to determine trends in risk developments; (b) these data are available for each of the relevant homogeneous risk groups used in the calculation of technical provisions and no relevant data are excluded from the calculation of technical provisions without justification. 2. Data used in the calculation of technical provisions for the purposes of Article 82 of Directive 2009/138 shall be deemed to be accurate only if all the following conditions are met: (a) the data do not contain significant errors; (b) the data from the different time periods used for the same estimate are: consistent; (c) the data are recorded in a timely and consistent manner. 3. The data used in the calculation of technical provisions for the purposes of Article 82 of Directive 2009/138 shall be considered appropriate if all the following conditions are met: (a) the data correspond to the purposes for which they will be used; (b) the quantity and nature of the data ensure that the estimates made in the calculation are: the technical provisions on the basis of these data do not contain a material error in the estimate; (c) the data are consistent with the assumptions underlying the actuarial and statistical models used in the processing of data used for the calculation of technical provisions; (d) the data adequately reflect the risks to which the insurance or reinsurance undertaking is exposed in respect of its insurance and reinsurance obligations; (e) the collection, processing and use of data have been carried out in a transparent and structured manner on the basis of a documented process covering all of the following elements: 1. the definition of data quality criteria and the evaluation of data quality, including specific qualitative and quantitative standards for individual data sets; 2. the use and determination of assumptions made in the collection, processing and use of data; 3. the procedure for updating the data, including the frequency of updates and the circumstances on the basis of which further updates are made. [[13.30 hours]] Insurance or reinsurance undertakings shall ensure that their data are consistently used in the calculation of technical provisions. For the purposes of point (b), an estimate error in the calculation of technical provisions shall be considered material if it can affect the decision-making or judgement of users of the calculation results, including supervisory authorities. 4. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings may use external source data provided that, in addition to complying with the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 to 4, all of the following requirements are met: (a) insurance or reinsurance undertakings may demonstrate that the use of such data is more appropriate than the use of data available exclusively from an internal source; (b) insurance or reinsurance undertakings shall know the origin of such data and the assumptions or methods used in their processing; (c) the insurance or reinsurance undertakings shall determine all trends in the development of those data and changes - both over time and between data - of assumptions and methods in the field of the use of those data; (d) insurance or reinsurance undertakings may demonstrate that the assumptions and methods referred to in points (b) and (c) reflect the characteristics of the portfolio of insurance and reinsurance obligations of the relevant insurance or reinsurance undertaking. How are these data limited? Where data are not adequately documented in accordance with Article 19, the insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall indicate whether and how those restrictions will be corrected and describe the functions under the insurance or reinsurance undertaking's management and control system responsible for this procedure. Data shall be recorded and stored accordingly before correcting deficiencies. How appropriate is the use of approximation to calculate best estimate? Where insurance and reinsurance undertakings do not have sufficient quality-appropriate data to allow the application of a reliable actuarial method, they may use appropriate approximations to calculate the best estimate provided that all of the following requirements are met: (a) the lack of data is not due to the inadequateness of internal processes and procedures for the collection, storage or verification of data used for the valuation of technical provisions; (b) the lack of data cannot be replaced by the use of external data; (c) for an insurance or reinsurance undertaking, it would not be feasible to make adjustments to the data which would lead to the correction of their deficiency. And now to calculate the technical provisions that the assumptions will apply. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure (a) insurance and reinsurance undertakings are able to explain and justify each of the assumptions used, taking into account the importance of the assumption, uncertainty associated with the assumption or relevant alternative assumptions; (b) the circumstances under which the assumptions would be considered false may be clearly established; (c) unless otherwise specified in this Chapter, assumptions are based on the characteristics of the portfolio of insurance and reinsurance obligations, where possible, regardless of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking holding the portfolio; (d) insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall apply the assumptions consistently and within homogeneous risk groups and types of insurance, without arbitrary changes; (e) the assumptions adequately reflect any uncertainty related to cash flows. For the purposes of point (c), insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall only use data specific to the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, including information on the management of claims and on expenditure, where such information reflects the characteristics of the portfolio of insurance or reinsurance obligations better than data which are not limited to a specific insurance or reinsurance undertaking, or where it is not possible to perform a prudent, reliable and objective calculation of technical provisions without the use of this information. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall determine the assumptions regarding future parameters or scenarios of the financial market that are appropriate and comply with Article 75 of Directive 2009/138. Where insurance and reinsurance undertakings apply a specific model to calculate future parameters on the financial market, this model shall meet all of the following requirements: (a) creates asset prices which are consistent with asset prices on financial markets; (b) does not foresee an opportunity to conduct arbitration; (c) the calibration of parameters and scenarios is consistent with the relevant risk-free interest rate structures used to calculate the best estimate as referred to in point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 77. Future measures to be taken in the case of technical provisions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 7 (2) of Directive 2009/138 only where (a) the assumptions for future management measures are set in an objective manner; (b) the envisaged future management measures are consistent with the current business practice and business strategy of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, including the use of risk mitigation techniques; where adequate evidence exists that the insurance or reinsurance undertaking changes its procedures or strategies, the envisaged future management measures shall comply with the amended procedures or strategies; (c) the envisaged future management measures are mutually consistent; (d) the planned future management measures do not contradict any obligations towards policyholders and beneficiaries or the legal requirements applicable to the insurance or reinsurance undertaking; (e) the planned future management measures shall take into account all public statements made by the insurance or reinsurance undertaking concerning the measures it intends or does not intend to take. The assumptions for future management measures must be realistic and include all of the following elements: (i) a comparison of expected future management measures with measures... Thank you. Assessment of the impact of changes in the assumptions of future management measures on the value of technical provisions. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall, at the request of the supervisory authorities, be able to explain all relevant derogations relating to points 1 and 2 and, where changes in the assumptions of future management measures have a significant impact on technical provisions, the reasons for the sensitivity as well as how such sensitivity is taken into account in the decision-making process of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. [[13.40 hours]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (a) a description of future management measures relevant to the valuation of technical provisions; (b) a description of the specific circumstances in which an insurance or reinsurance undertaking can reasonably be expected to implement all relevant future management measures under point (b). (a); (c) a description of the specific circumstances in which an insurance or reinsurance undertaking can reasonably be expected to carry out all the relevant future management measures referred to in point (a); [[the speaker repeated the same thing as for the previous point]] (c) a description of the specific circumstances in which an insurance or reinsurance undertaking may not be able to implement all the relevant future management measures referred to in point (a) and a description of how those circumstances are taken into account in the calculation of the technical provisions; (d) the order in which future management measures referred to in point (a) would be implemented and the management and control system requirements in relation to those future management measures; (e) a description of any ongoing work needed to ensure that insurance or reinsurance undertakings are able to implement all relevant future management measures referred to in point (a); (f) a description of how the future management measures referred to in point (a) have been taken into account in the calculation of the best estimate; (g) a description of the relevant internal reporting procedures relating to future management measures referred to in point (a) which are part of the best estimate calculation. 4. The preconditions for future management measures shall take into account the time needed to implement management measures and any expenditure incurred by them. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 4 (1) of Directive 2009/138 only where it considers that the reporting procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article are effective. (g) this Article shall include the transmission of information to the administrative, control or management authority at least once a year. As regards future non-guaranteeed profit shares, where future unguaranteeed profit shares depend on the assets of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, the insurance or reinsurance undertaking shall base the calculation of the best estimate on the assets currently held and shall take into account the estimate of future changes in the allocation of its assets in accordance with Article 23. The assumptions for future return on assets are consistent with the relevant risk-free interest rate structures, including any adjustment, volatility adjustment or transitional measure relating to the risk-free interest rate, and the valuation of assets in accordance with Article 75 of Directive 2009/138. It should be noted that there is also a separate calculation of future unguaranteeed profit shares and that when calculating technical provisions, insurance and reinsurance undertakings determine the value of future unguaranteeed profit shares separately. And what does that mean for a policyholder's behavior? When determining the likelihood of the policyholder applying contractual options, including cancellations and disposals, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall carry out an analysis of the past policy holder behaviour and a prospective assessment of the expected policy holder's behaviour. All the following criteria shall be taken into account in carrying out the analysis: (a) past and future benefits of options for policyholders in circumstances at the time of exercise of the option; (b) the impact of past and future economic conditions; (c) the impact of past and future management measures; (d) any other circumstances likely to affect policyholders' decisions on the exercise of the option. Probability shall be considered to be independent of the elements referred to in points (a) to (d) only if there is empirical evidence supporting this assumption. To calculate the best estimates, we need background information. Of course, it's about money, their credibility. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 (2) of Directive 2009/138. To calculate the best estimate, we need a projection of cash flows. The cash flow projections used in the calculation of the best estimate cover all of the following cash flows where they relate to existing insurance and reinsurance contracts: (a) payment of insurance claims to policy holders and beneficiaries; (b) payments made by the insurance or reinsurance undertaking under contract in kind; (c) the payment of expenditure referred to in point (c) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 78 (1) of Directive 2009/138; (d) payments of insurance premiums and any other cash flows resulting from such payments; (e) payments between insurance or reinsurance undertakings and intermediaries related to insurance or reinsurance obligations; (f) payments between insurance or reinsurance undertakings and investment firms related to indexed rate insurance contracts and investment-related insurance contracts; (g) payments for refunds and regressions where they are not classified as separate assets or liabilities in accordance with international accounting standards adopted by the Commission in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 659/1999. IFRS 7.20 (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii); Annex V.Part 2.17 (b) (h) tax charges charged or expected to be charged to policyholders or required to settle insurance or reinsurance undertakings' liabilities. Here we have some uncertainty about expected future developments in the external environment, and therefore the calculation of the best estimate will take into account expected future developments, which will have a substantial impact on the additions and losses of funds necessary to settle insurance and reinsurance obligations for their duration. For this purpose, future developments shall mean developments in demographic, legal, medical, technological, social, environmental and economic matters, including inflation, as referred to in Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 78 point 2 of Directive 2009/138. The uncertainty of cash flows shall be addressed by the cash flow projections used in the calculation of the best estimate, explicitly or implicitly taking into account all uncertainties in cash flows, including all of the following characteristics: (a) uncertainty in the timing, frequency and severity of claims; (b) uncertainty in the amount of claims incurred, including uncertainty in relation to the inflation of claims and the time needed to settle and pay the claim; (c) uncertainty as to the amount of the costs referred to in point (c) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 78 (1) of Directive 2009/138; (d) the uncertainty of expected future developments in accordance with Article 29 - to the extent practicable; (e) uncertainty in the behaviour of policyholders; (f) dependence between two or more causes of uncertainty; (g) the dependence of cash flows on circumstances prior to the date of execution of the cash flow. [[13.50 hours]] 1. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) (a) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35. 78 (1) of Directive 2009/138. (a) administrative expenditure; (b) the cost of managing investments; (c) the management costs of claims; (d) cost of purchase. In the costs referred to in points (a) to (d), the overhead costs associated with the management of insurance and reinsurance obligations shall be taken into account. 2. The management costs shall be allocated in a realistic, objective and consistent manner to those parts of the best estimate to which they relate. 3. The gross calculation of the best estimate shall take into account the costs related to reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles. 4. The cost projections are based on the assumption that the insurance or reinsurance undertaking will obtain new contracts in the future. What about options and financial guarantees? When calculating the best estimate, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall take into account all of the following aspects: (a) all financial guarantees and contractual options included in their insurance and reinsurance contracts; (b) any factors which may affect the likelihood that policyholders exercise contractual options or realise the value of financial guarantees. If cash flows are in different currencies, then the best estimate for cash flows in different currencies shall be made separately. What are the methods of calculation for this: 1. The best estimate shall be calculated transparently and in such a way as to allow a qualified expert to examine the methods of calculation and results resulting therefrom. 2. The choice of actuarial and statistical methods to calculate the best estimate shall be based on their suitability to take into account the risks which affect the underlying cash flows and the nature of the insurance and reinsurance obligations. Insurable mathematical and statistical methods are consistent with all relevant available data for the calculation of best estimate and use. 3. Where the calculation method is based on data from grouped insurance contracts, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall ensure that the grouping of contracts creates homogeneous risk groups that adequately reflect the risks of individual insurance contracts included in those groups. 4. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall analyse both the extent to which the current value of cash flows depends on the expected outcome of future events and developments, as well as how the actual result in certain situations could deviate from the expected result. 5. Where the present value of cash flows depends on future events and developments as referred to in paragraph 4, insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall use a method reflecting such eventualities to calculate the best estimate of cash flows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u39	Ambassador, if you'd like to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u40	Yes, yes, yes. The cash flow projections used in the calculation of the best estimate for life insurance obligations shall be carried out separately for each insurance contract. Where a separate calculation for each insurance contract would constitute an excessive burden for an insurance undertaking or reinsurance undertaking, the design may be carried out by grouping contracts where the group meets all of the following requirements: (a) there are no significant differences in the nature and complexity of the risks associated with insurance contracts belonging to the same group; (b) the grouping of contracts is not misleading with regard to the risks arising from contracts and does not distort their costs; (c) it is likely that a pool of insurance contracts will result in the calculation of the best estimate of approximately the same result as the calculation for each contract, in particular as regards the financial guarantees and the contractual options that are part of those contracts. Non-life insurance obligations: 1. The best estimate of non-life insurance liabilities shall be calculated separately for the premium provision and for the outstanding premium provision. 2. The provision for insurance premiums shall cover future claims subject to insurance and reinsurance obligations within the contractual limit referred to in Article 18. Cash flow projections for the calculation of the premium provision include insurance claims, costs and premiums related to those events. 3. The provision for outstanding claims relates to claims that have already occurred, whether or not the claims resulting from those events have already been reported. 4. Cash flow projections for the calculation of the provision for outstanding claims shall include insurance claims, costs and premiums related to the events referred to in paragraph 3. In order to count on the risk premium, we need a reference enterprise. 1. The calculation of the risk premium shall be based on the following assumptions: (a) the entire portfolio of insurance and reinsurance obligations of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking which calculates the risk premium shall be taken over by another insurance or reinsurance undertaking, which is the reference undertaking; (b) without prejudice to the provisions of point (a), where the original undertaking simultaneously carries out both life and non-life insurance activities in accordance with point (a). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The risk-weighted exposure amount of assets that meet the criteria set out in Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Directive 2009/138/EC that meet the criteria set out in Article 5 (5) of Directive 2009/138, the life and life insurance and non-life insurance obligations portfolio and the non-life insurance and non-life reinsurance obligations shall be taken over separately by two different reference undertakings; (c) the transfer of insurance and reinsurance obligations includes all reinsurance contracts and arrangements with the special purpose vehicle relating to those liabilities; (d) the reference undertaking has no insurance or reinsurance obligations or capital before the transfer takes place; (e) after the transfer, the reference undertaking shall not assume any new insurance or reinsurance obligations; (f) after the transfer of the reference undertaking raises the applicable own funds to the level of the Solvency Capital Requirement necessary to ensure insurance and reinsurance obligations for their duration; (g) after the transfer, owns the reference undertaking assets which amount to the sum of its Solvency Capital Requirement and technical provisions without amounts recoverable from reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles; (h) the assets are selected to minimise the Solvency Capital Requirements for the market risk to which the reference undertaking is exposed; (i) the Solvency Capital Requirement of the reference undertaking covers all of the following risks: (i) subscription risks related to the transferred activities; (ii) where the market risk referred to in point (h) is material, excluding interest rate risk; (iii) credit risk relating to reinsurance contracts, arrangements with the special purpose vehicle of intermediaries, policyholders and any other material exposures that are closely related to insurance and reinsurance obligations; (iv) operational risk; (j) the capacity of the technical provisions to absorb losses referred to in Article 108 of Directive 2009/138 in the reference undertaking corresponds to the individual risks of the capacity of the technical provisions to absorb losses in the original undertaking; (k) the deferred tax liability does not have the capacity to absorb losses in the case of a reference undertaking pursuant to Art. 108 Directive 2009/38.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u41	So, Mr. Ambassador, it's 14 o'clock, so the time for the third reading has passed, and I will interrupt this point at the same time. But I have Mr Chvojka, Mr Chvojka, Prime Minister of the ČSSD, here with priority rights. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u42	Thank you for the applause, good afternoon. Well, good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to propose that the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 54 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure decided on the inclusion of third readings of the 36th meeting on Tuesday 5 November and, at the same time, pursuant to Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the House set aside on that date the time for the discussion of those third readings between 14 and 19 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u43	It's a procedural proposal, so I'm gonna go on, 'cause we're gonna vote. I have an application for a check-out, so I'm gonna check you out, and you're all gonna sign up with your voting cards again. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u44	I veto Mr Chvojka's proposal on behalf of the ODS and the Pirate Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u45	So here's the veto. This is Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Chvojka parliamentary club. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u46	I was kind of expecting it. There's nothing I can do. In that case, I would like to make a motion to suspend the 36th meeting by Wednesday, November 6, within 9 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u47	So we will vote on this proposal. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 10 of the 115 Members nominated for 73, against 23. The motion was accepted. I'm interrupting this 36th meeting. Excuse me? Vice-President of the ODS Club, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u48	I'm just after the tempestuous applause I've gathered - colleagues, you may not have realized that there's a proper meeting called for at 14 o'clock, so the proposal wasn't possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-01-ps2017-036-03-001-001.u49	Here was said 14.15, I guess, but either way, we have already voted to suspend this 36th meeting by Wednesday 6. 11 to 9 o'clock. But we'll meet at another meeting, at the 35th meeting, Tuesday at 14 o'clock. Have a nice weekend.
