ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-005-091.u1	91. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratify the amendment of Annexes A and C to the Stockholm Convention on persistent organic pollutants adopted in Geneva on 5 May 2017 /German press 96/ - second reading The Minister of the Environment will be replaced by the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who I give my word on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-005-091.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a government proposal to approve the ratification of amendments to Annexes A and C to the Stockholm Convention on persistent organic pollutants. The Czech Republic has been a Contracting Party to this Convention since 17 May 2004. The 8th meeting of the Parties to the Stockholm Convention decided in Geneva on 5 May 2017 to include new chemicals in Annexes A and C to the Convention. This is the inclusion of decabromodiphenyl ether and short chain chlorinated paraffins in the Annexes A Convention with special exceptions for production and use and the inclusion of hexachlorobutadiene in Annex C to the Convention. Annex A includes substances intended for total exclusion or removal from production, use, import and export. Annex C includes chemicals that arise as undesirable by-products of chemical reactions, for example in combustion processes or chemical production, and Contracting Parties must take measures to reduce unintended leakages of such chemicals in order to progressively minimise and, where possible, their final elimination. Following the entry into force of the amendments to Annexes A and C, the Convention will regulate the handling of a total of 28 chemicals. Newly classified substances harm human health and the environment, i.e. are highly toxic and organisms are very difficult to demolish. Through food chains, these substances accumulate, and also in the environment they only decompose. In addition, these substances are subject to remote transmission. In order to achieve effective protection against them, action must be taken at international level. By accession to the Convention, the Czech Republic undertook to fulfil its obligations for the Czech Republic. The inclusion of new chemicals in Annexes A and C is an important measure for meeting the objective of the Convention, which will contribute to increasing the protection of human health and the environment. It is therefore desirable for the inclusion of new substances in Annexes A and C to the Czech Republic to support and to accede to these amendments. The basic legal framework for the regulation of persistent organic pollutants is the directly applicable regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, No 850/2004, on persistent organic pollutants, which transposes among others, at EU level. the requirements of the Stockholm Convention in the EU legal framework. The inclusion of three new substances will not have an impact on the Czech Republic. The production and use of those substances are either fully prohibited or severely restricted by existing EU legislation. Measures against short chain chlorinated paraffins and hexachlorobutadiene are contained in the said Regulation on persistent organic pollutants as amended. The production and use of decabromodiphenyl ether in the EU are also significantly limited on the basis of other chemical legislation, so called. the REACH Regulation, which is the umbrella regulation for the handling of chemicals. As from 2 March 2019, this substance will be subject to a total ban on production and placing on the market with certain time-limited exceptions concerning the production and use of the substance in the aviation and automotive industry. In the Czech Republic, however, this substance is no longer used in production, even in the two sectors. The inclusion of decabromodiphenyl ether in Annex A to the Stockholm Convention means that the entry with this substance will be moved from REACH to the Regulation on persistent organic pollutants as part of the adaptation of this Regulation. The adoption of amendments to Annexes A and C will therefore not require changes to the legislation in force in the Czech Republic and will also have no impact on the state budget, public administration or the corporate sphere beyond what EU and Czech legislation provides. The Stockholm Convention has the character of a presidential treaty with regard to national law. The adoption of amendments to the Convention, including the Annexes which form an integral part of it, shall be subject to ratification by the President of the Republic for which he is in accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Convention. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 112 point (a) of CRR. (e) The Constitution of the Czech Republic requires the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. In this context, I would like to point out that the Senate has already agreed to this ratification on 17 May 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-005-091.u3	Thank you, Minister. This House press has discussed the Foreign Committee and the Committee on the Environment under the authority of the Chamber of Deputies. The Committee's resolution is delivered as the House's press 96/1 and 2. In both cases, i.e. both committees, the rapporteur was Mr Jaroslav Holík, so now I ask him to justify the resolution. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-005-091.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I said before, it is quite difficult to perform after the Minister, because her report is always perfect. It's just for those who aren't chemists, so fast. Persistent organic pollutants are substances that contain halogen elements such as chlorine and bromine. Thus, they are harmful to health, are stored in the body and can bring about genetic changes. So, to the original 25, which has already been banned in the past, comes three more that have been appointed here. [[11.30 hours]] Since I am concerned with the health of the population, the health of our plants, the health of our animals, I am all ten in favour of adopting this Stockholm Convention. And if you don't mind, I'd take the liberty of reading the resolution, although it's been about a year between the first reading and the second reading. Resolution of the Foreign Committee of 25 April 2018. First, the Foreign Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the amendment of Annexes A and C to the Stockholm Convention on persistent organic pollutants adopted in Geneva on 5 May 2017. [[The MP is silent and waiting for the noise in the Chamber to be reduced.]] I didn't say much that my colleagues would give me a little bit of space to move on. I hope he calms down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-005-091.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. The Member is briefing us on the committee's resolution. Let's all hear it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-005-091.u6	Thank you. Secondly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this government proposal at a meeting of the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-005-091.u7	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. No one is in or out of the debate. I'm done with the conversation. There's no interest in final words. I will just read you the resolution again, given some confusion. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the amendment of Annexes A and C to the Stockholm Convention on persistent organic pollutants adopted in Geneva on 5 May 2017.' We will vote on this. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 123: 141 Members registered, for 120, against no one. The motion was accepted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Initiating discussion of the next item
