ParlaMint-CZ_2019-05-31-ps2017-030-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I ask for peace of mind. I begin on the fourth day of the 30th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first check you out and please log in with ID cards, or tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I agree that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence from the negotiations: Mr Radek Vondráček for reasons of foreign travel, Member Jan Bartošek for family reasons, Member Jan Bauer for reasons of foreign travel, Member Jan Birke for reasons of health, Member Marian Bojko for reasons of work, Member Jaroslav Dvořák for Onderka of family reasons, Member Jan Farský for reasons of foreign travel, Member Radim Fiala for no reason of reason, Member Pavla Golasowská for personal reasons, Member Stanislav Grospič for reasons of employment, Member Tomáš Hanzel for reasons of employment, Member Jan Hrnčíř for Vlastimil of employment, Member Válek Juříček for reasons of foreign travel, Member Leo Luzar for reasons of foreign travel, Member Radka Maxová for reasons of employment, Member Roman Onderek for family reasons, Member Zuzana Ožanová for reasons of foreign travel, Member Petr Pávek for reasons of foreign travel, Member Leo Luzar for Rostislav of foreign travel, Member Leo Luzar for reasons of Parliament for Vyzula of the reasons of the European Parliament for reasons of the reasons of the European Parliament for the reasons of the 10thicken's. The following members of the government also asked to apologise for their absence: Minister Marie Benešová for work reasons, Minister Klára Dostálová for foreign travel reasons, Minister Jana Maláčová for work reasons, Minister Robert Plaga for work reasons. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'd like to ask for peace. I know we're having a marathon tonight, but at least we can handle the opening in peace. We should start today's meeting by discussing points from the third reading block for which legal deadlines are met. These are the following points: 148, 149, 150, 151, 152, 153, 154, 155 and 156. These are House prints 205, 240, 286, 298, 299, 300, 301, 302 and 332. Then we would discuss laws from the first reading block. I'll ask if anyone needs to get on the agenda. It's not like that. In that case, we will continue with the approved agenda of the meeting. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] The first item on the approved agenda shall be:
