ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u1	The joint debate on points 43, 44 and 45 /house prints 360, 229 and 230/ Mr Petr Pávek is the first enrollment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government, I have a few points on this subject. One of them includes personal experience with the control of the Supreme Audit Office in our village. And I would start with the philosophical part that, in my opinion, also relates to the Constitution. The Supreme Audit Office is certainly doing a very good job in its control activity. I can't raise any doubt about that. The problem that I see there, which in my opinion also affects the constitutionality of the proposed law, is in the concept of self-government. From a word to self-control. And I'm sure you, who come from regions, have experience either from regional self-government or local self-government, understand the concept. And you know that the funds you have and you're redistributing from your budget are either determined, that is, they sort of flow through the municipal or regional budget and go to education, to health, social affairs and other areas, and then you have that part of the budget from the tax determination that is yours and which is decided by the council, by the council or by the mayor or the governor. I'd really like to stop by that office. And I'm afraid it really comes down to constitutionality, too, but mostly that principle of managing itself and deciding on its budget at the level where that budget is placed. I'd compare it to a family budget. We just have family, different priorities. There's a family that decides to save money for vacations. There are families who prefer to buy a new car, families who prefer their children's education. In short, each family has different priorities and, after most, deals with the funds. This does not call into question the right of the State to enter those areas which are defined by it, and these are, without a doubt, taxes and levies. So that's where we worked it out. But like the family budget, the family budget is a family budget, and each family can decide on its own, the same applies to municipalities and regions in my opinion. We just have a budget, and within that self-government, that means the local, local representative democracy and that principle, we can agree to do the same with the funds and treat them differently elsewhere. I can't imagine a judge making that decision. And I can't imagine how to assess the efficiency of this kind of money, and I can't imagine a control mechanism other than that representative. That means the people have chosen their council, it has its own advice, it has its own mayor. And this collective body decides on what priorities the funds from the budgetary determination of taxes, i.e. the local self-governing budget, will be spent on. This is the part that I consider philosophical and constitutionally anchored and very, very important. The second thing is that the Supreme Audit Office, without a doubt, has always been able to control municipalities and regions in the areas of state subsidies, or the funds that have flowed from the state in the form of subsidies since the beginning of its existence. I have experienced such control in a village that has about 700 inhabitants. And the control was extremely correct. Those guys, the controllers, brought in thermos with coffee and tea and water. They wanted nothing but files from us. But like a small village that basically has a mayor and one registrar, a secretary and an accountant in one person, they stopped the office for three months. It took three months for us to basically go back to the offices and continue the operation of the village as needed. When you consider the enormous personnel burden that will be borne by the control of municipalities, regions, their contribution organisations and their owned companies, we will not only face a breach of the principles of the self-government, or the decision-making of our budget, but we will face a huge strain on the Supreme Audit Office. And it will only be logical that the Supreme Audit Office will constantly need new and new people. That means an increase in officials. And basically, it can stop the operation - in those big cities or in those larger cities, regions where they have dozens and dozens of contribution organizations and often dozens of business companies, it can just stop the operation. So I'm summing up again. As much as I appreciate the activities of the Supreme Audit Office, and I think it is doing its job well, I do not think that we should let it into self-governing budgets. With the state, the state part of the budget, no doubt, yes. That's where he can go. But that self-government, and I'm comparing it to that family budget, should remain intact, and should have the right to make decisions about the funds from the budget tax determination remain in those councils. I know that there is a rather broad agreement here and that the bill will probably go through the first reading, although I would like it not to be so. But I would also like you to consider the comments that I have made here as subject matter in the inspection committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u3	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Roman Sklenák is here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'll take the liberty of responding to my previous speaker. I think this is a bit of a misunderstanding, if he is talking about violating the principle of self-government and the right of self-government to decide. Of course it's not. Neither the SAO nor anybody else will dictate to the municipalities whether to build a playground or fix a sidewalk or a golden water supply in the square or fountain. But if you decide that the priority for you will be the golden fountain in the square, then you have the right to do so, but the SAO will judge whether you have done it efficiently and economically. That's the point. That's the principle. And the second part of the objection that there will be a great deal of staffing to check all the municipalities and those businesses, so I don't expect the SAO to make any kind of business plan that includes all these entities. That's basically where they have to be able to do the check, if there's a reason.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u5	Thank you. In fact, Mr Kupka is registered here. They're really taking precedence. Mr Martin Kupka and then Mr Petr Pávek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u6	Thank you for the floor. Short reaction to the previous speaker. What can be feared and where a serious collision can occur. An example of a city in Central Bohemia that decided to sell a set of buildings and sell it to a university. Because they thought it wise for college to work in that town. She's very successful there today, by the way. And they sold that set of buildings for one crown, which was well below any market estimated price. Was it economical, or was it not economical? From the point of view of purely stating the need for an auditor who would not be involved in that self-governing decision, that was certainly uneconomical. In terms of self-decision, in terms of what the city could do for the development of its territory, that was undoubtedly the right step. [[18.20 hours]] That's why I'm worried about any checks in this area. How will you judge, in such a case, whether the city, in view of the SAO's real assessment, was in doubt or not? Here I think that there is a collision, and that is why, in my opinion, the proposal is inadequate and in relation to the number of checks that are being carried out today in the management of regions, municipalities and cities, it is simply inadequate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u7	Thank you. Another is Mr Petr Pávek. Mr Jiří Běhounek will be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would also respond with your permission to my two previous speakers. It's just like my colleague Kupka said. It's just that it's just gonna turn into a bureaucratic assessment of a decision that may not always be in line with the tables, but it's in line with the council's will, as well as it can be in line with the family's will. And just what's threatening is that there's gonna be a range of precedents here. As we discussed today in other laws, how difficult it is to get people who are willing to enter the government responsibly, to run at all, how hard it is to convince them to abandon their much more profitable jobs, so this will just be another nail in the coffin of the authorities. So I'm genuinely afraid of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u9	Thank you. We have three factual points - Mr Jiří Běhounek, Mr Pavel Růžička and Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u10	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, members of the government, have a nice evening. I'll follow up on my previous speakers. There are many opinions, but I am calling here, and many of you know that, after there are some methodological guidelines at the moment when there are checks. I have experienced checks on European funds, and every year the Ministry of Finance controls us, which evaluates the management of the region. I think he goes to the community, too. In this situation, I would be very interested to know what methodical procedures will be chosen by the SAO, because unfortunately, when I look at individual findings, I think they often also contradict each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u11	Thank you. Mr Pavel Růžička. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the speakers, through Mr President, to Mr Kupka. Well, it's already done. It already self-government when it wants to sell something, God forbid for one crown - we sold the property at a price at a place customary on the basis of five expert opinions and this House was asked to turn me in for prosecution. It's been dragged up until now, and it's not solved. So I can't imagine how this would be handled by the Authority, because the situation is already very complicated and for the self-government, for those people who work in it, it's very uncomfortable because they can't navigate in what's right. If I have expert opinions, the court is now making a review expert opinion on which of the five expert opinions is the right one. And how are those people in self-government supposed to make decisions? I totally agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u13	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, with a factual remark. Mr. Ivan Adamec will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u14	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to point out to my colleagues that it was because of the reservations of small municipalities that we only proposed statutory cities and regions. And I think that both statutory cities and regions can deal with it and they can prepare themselves properly for inspection. I also think it's appropriate. Indeed, even the regions and statutory cities do not suffer from a lack of candidates for elected office. There is indeed an overpressure of candidates for the number of elected seats quite considerable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u15	Thank you. I will ask Mr Ivan Adamec to prepare Mr Martin Kupka. All factual points. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, co-workers, it's been dropped since my colleague Sklenák said it's nobody's business when the village builds a golden water supply. That's what it is, yeah. By the way, you'd be killed by citizens, that's one thing, they'd throw you out the window of City Hall. The second thing is that the SAO officials are really gonna take the tables and start comparing them and say that the water supply was supposed to be wooden, plastic or something else and they're actually going to substitute the decisions of the government. So we can understand that. The SAO was set up for something completely different. This was indeed an office to control the management of state property. When I see some conclusions, I also shake my head about it. It's just reality. Send to municipalities, and it doesn't matter whether to municipalities, statutory cities, municipalities with extended scope or to all - by the way, it should be on all, because we all have the same equality before the law. I think that's the way it should be. As well as actually - they will contradict the Council and the Council's resolution and then criminalise it, because they will pass it on to the authorities. And if political competitors or disgruntled citizens are now turning us in, then SAO officials will join us. It really feels like Kocourkov. And the other thing. Let's not say they're going random. They're gonna go on probation, or they're not gonna do it, because with the state of the officials, the controllers they have there, they're not gonna be able to contain the controls. We have 6,500 municipalities. And maybe another thing. I really don't understand. We were talking about canceling the other controls, the ones that are duplicated. But I can tell you, I have an example when I experienced a three-day grant check through the county office back then, county officials said it was okay, the Ministry of Regional Development came to control, said it was okay, the Treasury officials came and we were criminals. So let's not get illusions if we don't lower the number of checks on the others, so let's forget that the SAO will replace it in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u17	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u18	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to repeat this also to my colleague Adamec through Mr President. The statutory cities are in our design. There is no talk of 6,000 municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u19	We have five new factual remarks here, so Mr. President Vondrák can sit down, he'll have plenty of time. Member Jiří Bláha. I will really ask for peace in the hall! Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u20	I'd like to contribute my little bit to the mill, seeing how difficult it is. If we think about it, how difficult these controls are. Now imagine that the businessman who employs nine people comes to him repeatedly and several times and still wants the same documents. So maybe I'm trying to figure this out, and I'm dealing with it through a control website where the documents would be shared. Perhaps something like this would be useful for cities and municipalities, so that officials would actually start the inspection at the office, read the documents in advance, find out everything, and de facto do not burden control, because I believe that it must be crazy for small municipalities. But that doesn't change the fact that I think the NKÚ is doing its job very well. Now we need to consider how to do this. Therefore, let us discuss it on the inspection committee and say and listen to the very comments of colleagues who are from practice, because it always seems very simple behind the desk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u21	Thank you. With replacement card number 11, Vice-President Pikal votes. With factual remarks, they are entered in the order: Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Martin Kupka, Mr Martin Baxa and Mr Karel Krejza. I'll ask Mr Ivan Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I exceptionally agree with my colleague Bláha that, in fact, the tradesmen have up to 30 checks per year. If you take that check-up, it'll take an average day to get there, it's a month and a half in terms of working days, which is a crazy number. I agree. But on the other hand, I said it here, the controls go to the authorities, the cities, exactly the same, duplicated, it's just wrong. We said, let's make this work, let's not duplicate it, so let's have one check that checks out what it just has and walks away. He'll find out the checkpoint and hello. That's not how it works. I was saying, for one grant, just three checks and different results. [[18.30 hours]] Otherwise, to my colleague Ferjenčík through Mr President. I wasn't questioning the pirate proposal. Not at all. But I'll tell you. Once we get started in that government, don't get illusions. Then it'll go down the salami method. And that's why I definitely don't want to support this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u23	Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka, with a factual remark. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u24	It was said that statutory cities had enough people to prepare for inspection. And I am convinced that the purpose of the existence of statutory cities is not to prepare for checks, but to really do something to develop those cities. The idea of employing officials to prepare for control scares me frankly. The fact that it will of course go on and that it can go to the levels of individual smaller cities and really slow down the course and preparation of these things. I just don't want to live in a world where everyone's supposed to be cheating, making mistakes, and that they're necessarily burdening the city budget, the budget of the state with their escapes. That's not what I think it is. And fortunately, there are many control mechanisms today. The answer to Mr Bláha's comment. So at this point, if municipalities are announcing any competition, all information, including the conditions of the selection procedure, individual documents on the course of the selection procedure, including all contracts, and even the amount paid to the contractor, is being posted on the profiles of the contracting authority. This can be controlled, and it can even be controlled completely publicly. There's a contract register. Here are a number of tools where it is possible to see how the public body, the community of any size, the city and the region manage. There are just so many possibilities and really several kinds of controls.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u25	The next in line is Mr Martin Baxa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I then have in my speech, in my proper contribution, summarised what concerns both the amendment to the Constitution and the Act on the Supreme Audit Office. But now, let me make a point of expressing my reaction here to the performance of the Pirates. First of all, through the Vice-President, Mr Cernohorsky, you, or the pirate club in general, most of the time, you want to make sure that the proposals for what the amendments are for are duly justified here. This is an absolutely crucial, fundamental amendment, which has a very significant change in how self-government will work in the Czech Republic, and we have not actually learned anything from you about the content. You merely described what is in the proposal, but it did not appear here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, why you are proposing this. But I wonder if in any other performance then you'll say that you think that the authorities are working badly, that they are not being supervised, that they manage the public funds poorly, that you will present examples here from different cities, such as the capital city of Prague, and so on. I think it really should be here. To say that you, as rapporteur for this proposal, think that 6,000 municipalities in the Czech Republic are actually economically managing public money, that we are to have a fundamental distrust of them, and that we think that without the Supreme Audit Office, we cannot see how the municipalities that have self-government, according to the Constitution, manage. And my second point is, once again, through the Vice-President, to Mr Ferjenčík. Mr. Ambassador, we as the statutory city, the fourth largest city in the Czech Republic, have a bureaucratic apparatus to cope with the inspections of the Supreme Audit Office. But I am deeply convinced that we are not there for that. So that we should be ready at any moment for someone to send a SAO check and we'll explain if we've given someone a grant for CZK 50,000. Then I'll get to it in my post. Because I really think this is a very serious and unacceptable proposal. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u27	Thank you. Member Karel Krejza. Mr. Jiří Běhounek will be ready. Mr Ferjenčík, Pávek and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová are next in line. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the municipality as a self-governing body is controlled by the public, the register of contracts, it is controlled by the inspection committee, it is controlled by the opposition, it is controlled by the audit. It's controlled on several levels. And, of course, it's all more visible in these municipalities, and citizens know how to manage, and they will appreciate it in the elections. At the same time, I also think that the role of the Authority is not to expand the number of controls. Financial authorities, subsidization agencies, I forgot about that. Because there are so many checks and cross-checks that the municipalities run probably best in this republic. I have a feeling this House has been sitting on that communal policy lately. We're still dealing with local policies and controls here, and I feel that trust in the mayor is far greater than trust in the Chamber of Deputies. And maybe we should focus on how our House works and rather our government. So much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u29	Mr. Jiří Běhounek and his two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u30	So friends, I don't have to talk in general, because I don't think it's gonna come down to this point. So then I'm going to join the general debate. But very briefly. I'll introduce you to the event that took place here in Jihlava, which I'm dealing with. The youth football club through the Ministry of Youth and Sports requested a subsidy for the reconstruction of the artificial playground, which is owned by the city of Jihlava. It's all gone. On the basis of an external advisor, they did the job, they did everything. And it came to the control office, which wrote that "despite the distortion of the competitive environment in choosing the most advantageous offer and changing the contract, the youth football club implemented the project at the lowest bid price and really." And yet the conclusion is that it is passed on to the Financial Authority. The amount was CZK 10 million, and now, on the football club of the youth, which has assessed the property of the statutory city on the basis of the decision of the Ministry of Education, they want five million crowns of vomit. Another, of course, is the money that comes from the penalty. So make your own conclusion. We can talk about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u31	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Ferjenčík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u32	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to respond briefly to my colleagues from ODS. First of all, a colleague of Kupka, who says he wants to live in a world without control. I'd like to live in a world without control, too. But unfortunately, the political practice of the ODS has largely deprived us of our trust in politics. Unfortunately, even at the municipal level. In particular, he mentioned Prague on a comment by a colleague named Baxa, who wanted specific examples. Then I can start with a very long list. I'll just start briefly. Škodův's Palace, a building that Prague could buy for a billion, instead rented for four billion. Opencard overpriced by a billion. The Software that costs units of millions cost more than a billion. Then we can continue with SMS tickets that cost the city tens to hundreds of millions of extra crowns each year. And that series of corruption scandals was so long that the ODS fell from fifty percent in Prague to about ten, the 2014 election. So, unfortunately, the scandals are happening in local politics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u33	We have seven factual points here. [[Laughs from Members on the left side of the hall.]] So the first in line is Mr. Petr Pávek. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready. And I'm gonna ask for some peace in the O.R. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u34	Thank you for the floor. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. In the last year alone, I have read several findings of the Supreme Audit Office, which did its duty, visited and checked some of the authorities of the state. It's a huge mess. They found billions of flaws almost everywhere they went. I'm asking what happened. What happened after the discovery? The ministry, the organizations, they just keep working, not finding them. But that's why the Supreme Audit Office was established and established. It's like the main domain of his control activity. And what happened to the findings? So they checked, found shortcomings in the order mostly billions of money - and nothing happened. There's an article about it and nothing. Like we're distracting from the state's mismanagement of municipalities? And just a brief comment on my colleague Ferjenčík through you, Mr President. And that's not meant to be a bad thing, but you just don't have the communal experience yet. I know you have experience from Prague. And I'm not denying it to you. And perhaps your control activity and your opposition activity within Prague not only led to your electoral success, but perhaps will really contribute to the increase in culture. But let's not - let's not - transfer - experience from Prague to thousands of other municipalities and their tens of thousands of other organizations. They're retirement homes. It's kindergartens, schools. Like, it just doesn't end anywhere. So I suggest we don't send this any further. [[Attention on time.]] And if that happens, consider these arguments on the Organizing Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u35	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is next in line with the factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond. There's been a lot of talk here about the duplication of controls. They've been calling for that self-government for years to sort out the duplication of controls in some way. Unfortunately, that is not the case, and until now, even though we had a draft law on financial control here, that is precisely the law that should sort out the possible duplications in some way already, because there really is no way for you to get five checks on one thing, four said that everything is okay, and the fifth said that everything is completely wrong. I think that's what these communities, especially the small ones, have come out of today, because above all, they always said: we don't have a problem with the SAO controlling us, but do something about duplications of controls. And I'm a little sorry that there's only the counties and just the statutory cities again, because we had GDPR here. Who's the $10 million fine left for? Statutory cities and regions. Register of contracts - regions, statutory cities. We're still at the same place. But, you know, I'd like to say, I don't mind so much that it's going to apply to the region as a higher territorially self-governing whole. It bothers me that it's gonna apply to the fellowship organizations. Because what is the difference between a kindergarten established by a statutory city and established by an authorised municipal authority? Well, none. This is what I really think, and I will certainly talk to the Minister about it in the framework of, for example, an amendment. I think that the contribution organizations, they really are small contribution organizations, especially from the social area... And we're having trouble getting people to sign up for the competitions tonight in the leadership of these fund-raisers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u37	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Roman Kubíček, Mr Roman Kubíček, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u38	Thanks for the word. I will not unleash any passions. I'll just point out that The Supreme Audit Office of 15 members carries out, on average, 2.7 checks per year per member, so I calculated that these checks are about 40. If he puts two people on this check, it'll be between five and six checks. Next thing. We have joined the 1977 Lima Declaration, which clearly calls for the control of public funds. So I've already done this round in the Senate, so I know the arguments, and I know what the senators were afraid of, who originally promised to support the law, and then they didn't. However, I had the pleasure of verifying it in Slovakia, in Austria, how it works. And I actually agree with the Governor here, that's not focused on the kindergarten. It's going to come out in some way during the debate. And I note that I have also put forward the Financial Control Act, which, in the first wide version, also dealt with the duplications of checks, etc. Then, given the pressure on the implementation of the European directive, it was a little downgraded. And I'm discussing the methodology, the duplication of controls with Deputy Minister Vyhnánek. And I'm doing the same with Mr. President of the Supreme Audit Office. I'll be of assistance in this. I'll discuss it. Mr Kupka is a member of the Supervisory Committee. We respect everyone's comments and we will try to work them into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u39	Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u40	I just have to turn against Mr Ferjenčík's claim by you, who said that I should have mentioned that I did not want to live in a world without scrutiny. No, that's not what it sounded like. I said I didn't want to live in a world where everyone's supposed to cheat. And I really don't want that. And I believe none of us are here in the Chamber of Deputies. And I refuse to accept that the first and basic sense of the office's existence is to prepare for checks that can come from anywhere. The problem that we currently have, and we have it in real terms, is that various institutions at the level of cities, municipalities, contribution organisations are actually at risk of a plethora of controls. There are even so many of them that it may not be effective anymore, because there are checks on the financial office, checks on the subsidy institutions, and checks then, of course, other specific organisations that supervise the component laws, virtually. the individual competence of municipalities and cities. That's where I'm going. There's no way - and here I dare say there's no one to say there's no control. There must be checks. It is a fundamental function and a fundamental part of the functioning of self-government. There just can't be as many as there are at the moment. And what should be here in the first place on the table, and I think we all realize that, too, is a significant simplification of the control system so that, as a result, they are more effective, so that they are not duplicated, or even triplicit, but that they really aim effectively at simply being in a state at different levels as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u41	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec and his two minutes of factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u42	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to turn against Mr Ferjenčík's claim by you, so that he does not throw us in the same bag as the Prague Odea, their experience. In the end, when I listened to him, it's obvious they don't need any SAOs to check. You can see for yourself. Don't make bad political decisions. And maybe that's why they're in the position in Prague they're in right now. But let us not judge the Czech Republic according to Prague. What Mr Kubíček said through Mr President, I heard this years ago when the idea came that the SAO could control the municipalities. And then the exact same argument, it's going to be five six checks a year per controller, they're going to walk very little. To me, it really seems like there's no way out. In the end, it was hard to get hot in here. And this was when corruption was lurking at every corner. I remember, that was the time of the Public Procurement Act, which said it was impossible to compete because everyone was afraid that they would be labeled corrupters. But the time is over. And it turns out that it wasn't true that it was simply the political marketing of certain political groups. Now I don't mean anybody in particular from that time. Like me, I don't think there's a chance of eliminating duplication here, because if there's five or six checks per controller, let's just say, the SAO is going to go on a report, otherwise it won't go there, because they can't even make a plan that corresponds to the real reality in the Czech Republic. So it's nothing new. It was political marketing, trying to get voters to fight corruption. And the reverends are still here. And I really don't understand why the SAO has to control the decisions of the authorities. These decisions are mostly loss-making, because the municipalities actually do nothing but deal with loss-making, because that's what they're set up for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Martina Baxa and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u44	Thank you for the floor. As I see it, I still don't see any of the representatives of the pirate party. I was expecting to learn the true content of why this proposal is being tabled here from the Members. I deliberately predicted a little bit of what its contents are. As a matter of fact, my colleague Ferjenčík confirmed this when he merely read a series or a few as examples of apparently inefficient handling, so-called affairs. [[18.50 hours]] So I'm asking the question again. Gentlemen of the pirate party, tell us, step forward, what is the point of this proposal. Tell me you don't trust elected authorities of municipalities, councils and councils. That you do not believe in the way these institutions, which are based on elections based on the electoral programme, are dealing with free competition between political parties, with the funds that the municipalities have and which the cities are entrusted with. That, in my opinion, is the reason, but I just want to hear it from you here, from the counter, to make it sound like that, because in my opinion, it's not your proposal. And I would add one more important thing to that, and that maybe there's some kind of impression that municipalities and cities are being controlled and that they don't actually follow any other rules on how to deal with the funds. And I think it would also be to remind you that, in addition to the control legislation mentioned here, for example, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, there are clear laws that determine how to manage, for example, in our case, cities and municipalities. It's Law No. 250/2000 Coll., on the management of local authorities, which tells us clearly how to draw up a budget, how to deal with finances throughout the process and therefore that cities and municipalities do not decide - they decide autonomously about the content, but not that they are not aware that there are some laws that govern the management itself. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u45	Others are, with factual remarks, signed by Mr Vácha, Mr Jiří Bláha, Mr Ivo Vondrák and Mr Roman Kubíček. I ask Mr František Vácha to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I would like to draw attention to another matter. We are still talking about municipalities, self-government units, but the law also talks about schools, public research institutions, not only universities, but also regional education. I would draw attention to the issue of higher education. Colleges are legally independent institutions, self-governing. The Higher Education Act makes it clear what rules they should follow. We are - and I can say this from experience - every year exposed to multiple, repeated, duplicate checks from providers, both from the Ministry of Education and from all grant agencies. All our management is subject to a very thorough control system. The SAO can go to college today. Last year there was an in-depth control of public universities and public research institutions in the management of RVO money, which is money for the development of research institutions. I would then like to know, here, my colleague Ferjenčík - I do not address him, so I will not use the President - mentioned that perhaps part of their reasons for bringing this law was distrust of the ODS. I wonder where the distrust of universities came from in their ranks when they included universities in their proposal. But this, of course, also applies to the government, because even in the government proposal, public universities and public research institutions are involved. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u47	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jiří Bláha, Mr Ivo Vondrák, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate shows that the biggest problem is duplication. I'm sure I can tell you there's no way we can do this without checks. Every good farmer needs control, but a control that doesn't waste the time of those who work. So I'm in control every day at my firm, but I'm not gonna burden any employees with it. As a result, I have an overview of my business. And duplicate is a thing that troubles all private companies, including me. So it is obvious that we think together whether we should change what we control, because the function of control should be prevention. Prevention of a condition that should never even occur. I suggest - it is necessary to systemically change the whole thing, the whole system of checks, so that it does not have to be checked, so that someone has an overview of who carries out the checks, when they are carried out, what checks are carried out. So the other controls wouldn't have a chance to figure out the same thing again. It is therefore necessary to introduce some order, control rules, control websites, which I want to introduce in private companies or for private companies. I suggest we discuss this and move it forward so that we can get to the point that there will be no disgruntled authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact and, at this point, with a factual remark, Mr Ivo Vondrák. Please. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor at last.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u50	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, I have narrowed down the list of posts, because we in Ostrava say - or there is no time. And since a lot of things have been said here, I would take the liberty of making a single expressive statement. The quantity and non-systemicity of our controls completely paralyzes this country systematically. And I think we need to look at it from this point of view and do something about these checks really fundamentally and qualitatively, because now we're just expanding this problem with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u51	Thank you. Mr Roman Kubíček and his point of order, or - no one is logged in, so priority law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u52	Thank you. Well, with priority rights. Okay. Thank you again for the floor. I am waiting for an employee of Czech Television, Czech Radio, or Czech National Bank, or Railway Infrastructure Administration or some health insurance company to perform here because you have not touched them. You don't mind, do you, that they'll control themselves? I quite understand that. I just have one thing. I don't think I'm going to suspect the members of the Supervisory Committee that they haven't read any of the Supreme Audit Office's audit conclusions. And they're probably gonna give me the truth that they're top-notchly prepared, processed, and that their generalization for other organs is very significant. That's the idea the President of the Supreme Audit Office has, and so do I. And it's not about him doing any more checks. We can talk about the duplicates, but the duplicates are certainly not based on the Supreme Audit Office's control, but on the implementation of good practice, and we know that whoever read it and applied the Supreme Audit Office's conclusion never had a problem in the next follow-up. I'm just pointing that out. Why college? Why not college? There's no point in having this discussion here, because I'll always be where I come from, saying it doesn't belong there. I got into this discussion mainly about the fact that it doesn't belong in the community. That's all there was to it. So now we've got the colleges to do it. There's more to it than that. The biggest problem, and I totally agree with that, and I agree with all previous speakers, is the duplication and triplicity of controls. Indeed, the biggest problem is that there is no so-called control methodology, because the control methodology should say - if one check has been carried out correctly -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u53	Mr Member, I will interrupt you because, while it will be over in two minutes, I will ask the honourable Members to keep their voice down, because this point cannot be discussed and negotiations are still under way on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u54	Thank you. I'm sure I'll ask for a second reading, and the inspection committee will be very careful about that. We will not ask for any shortening of deadlines and we will set aside a great deal of time and invite the President of the Supreme Audit Office and interested people from the general public to participate. And I say, I have attended this debate as well as the former Senator through the President who experienced it, I have discussed it with other senators when he was not there. The discussion was similar. There wasn't that much resistance. But the senators had some demands for it to turn out somehow. So we're gonna try to count on it, do it in some way, and we certainly don't want the Supreme Audit Office's control to become a scarecrow. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-30-ps2017-026-06-031-902.u55	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since it is 18.59 and I do not expect that the applications in the debate would be within 19 o'clock, so if there is a consensus, it is 19 o'clock, I am interrupting the discussion of these merged points 43, 44, 45. I'm done with today's meeting. I state that it will begin tomorrow at 9.00 by responding to written interpelations. Thank you and have a good evening.
