ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 29/2000 Coll., on postal services and amending certain laws (the Postal Services Act), as amended, and Act No. 319/2015 Coll., amending Act No. 29/2000 Coll., on postal services and amending certain laws (the Postal Services Act), as amended, and Act No. 77/1997 Coll., on State Enterprise, as amended /German Press 202/ - Second Reading Under the Government's authority, the bill submitted will be stated by the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. I have the relevant Government resolution on the delegation of the Minister of Justice. Please, Minister, before we calm down the House, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Leo Luzar, for taking the floor at the rapporteur's table. And I'm gonna ask for a bunch in the House... Whether it was out of joy that the law had passed to third reading or grief that the EET had passed to the third reading to bring the debates into the foyer. I think it is appropriate enough for you, Minister, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to apologise to the Minister of Industry, who accepts the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and for this reason I will represent her today as part of my second reading on this point. It is a relatively brief amendment to the Postal Services Act, which responds to historical developments in this area and concerns the issue of compensation. net costs, compensation granted to providers of basic postal services, i.e. the Czech Post. [[11.30 hours]] I'd just put it in context. When the legislation was adopted, the creation of a compensation fund was expected to be contributed to by the providers of the various services and the compensation of the Czech Post was to be paid out. However, the compensation fund has never really been set up. This means - and the legislation was subsequently replaced from 2015 by compensation paid from the state budget. This means that the issue of payment of compensation from the state budget is now regulated by law and has been running since 2015. However, there was a problem here during the period when the compensatory fund was to exist and did not exist, namely the years 2013 and 2014 when the compensation was not actually settled for the so-called net costs. This is precisely what the present law is dealing with, which essentially creates legislative prerequisites for the Czech Post to pay compensation for those calendar years 2013 and 2014, namely 800 million. The total compensation for the years 2013 to 2017 would amount to CZK 2.6 billion. Kč. At the same time, I note that this legislation, including the level of compensation, has been notified in the European Union, because of course it was necessary to assess whether it was admissible public aid and a procedure which complies with the requirements of the European Union, and in this respect the legislation has been enforced and compatible with the law of the European Union. I would also like to thank you very much for discussing this proposal for committees. It was discussed, on the one hand, by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which recommended approving the proposal in the Government's version, and by the Economic Committee, which adopted several amendments. They will then be introduced. We'll talk about them later in other readings. I would like to submit that the petitioner's position on these amendments is rather detractive to negative, because we are concerned that they could interfere with the speed, reliability and quality of the basic services provided at all. After all, these are probably changes that have been initiated to some extent by the provider of basic services - the Czech Post. Otherwise, I look forward to the debate within this reading, and I beg that the proposal be released for the third, final reading, because it is something that really needs to be dealt with so as to ensure the proper functioning of the Czech Post. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek for the introduction of this proposal. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. It has also been ordered by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 202/1 to 4. Before taking the words of the rapporteur of the Economic Committee Leo Luzar and informing us of the committee's discussion of the proposal and of any amendments, I will ask Mr Dominik Feri to be prepared for his report. The rapporteur, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly give details of the things that have already been said here, as rapporteur for this press. Of course, the translator on the stand is right, the proposal we are currently discussing has two levels. Let's say the first plane is technical in general. In the creation of the law and application we encountered certain problems in practice that are solved in this proposal. And the second plane, which is more serious and will definitely be discussed and discussed, is a financial issue. Of course, when it comes to money, it is always in the first case that it saves the state budget, quite logically. A little chronology to create a problem. In 2013, it was decided to create a compensatory fund to which all postal service providers will contribute in order to finance support for basic postal services for citizens. The idea was accepted. Yes, it was already possible to decide that this commitment to finance these loss-making, unattractive, but for citizens the State would take over the very necessary services. The state then chose, in turn, the Chamber of Deputies, a variant of a compensatory fund. All the providers in that fund - now don't take number 26, I think there were 26 of them at the time - had to contribute. We are talking about a billion crowns in order, and that is not a very small amount, which should have been the basis and should have been made up of a compensatory fund. For two years, this compensation fund could not be created mainly because all those small providers, or those who were supposed to contribute to it, the small, the big and the biggest, opposed the form of measuring their share in the compensation fund. The share was based on the decision of the Czech Telecommunications Authority as a guarantor, which was to guarantee the calculation and form of who would contribute. There's a lawsuit going on about the contribution. Part of this proposal, which we have at second reading, is the withdrawal of these actions and the termination by adopting this law. Of course, the lawsuits will become meaningless because it will take over the state's commitment. Here is the first stone of injury in this proposal, and that is that the state grants funds to private providers of these services without expecting any compensation, creating artificial competition from the Czech Post Office, to the state enterprise. And paradoxically, and I consider that, and allow me as a personal opinion of the rapporteur, to be unserious from those providers, those who have saved the large funds and do not have to put them in the compensation fund, that they have the courage to criticise the Czech Post, that it is fighting for the money it should receive from the state to compensate for these services, the services it provides to citizens. That's the first thing. All the members, and I don't know if it's just the Economic Committee, or if it's not. even members of other committees received a letter from private providers of these services, where they complain that the Czech Post should receive compensation for these services and that it is actually distorting the market, etc. As if they forgot that the State allowed them to keep the funds that should be transferred to the compensation fund from 2015 onwards and can use them. Now, on to the basic proposal of the funds. Proposals are registered, the Economic Committee has dealt with them, recommends the Chamber of Deputies to approve the House's 202 in approved amendments according to the resolution of the Economic Committee at first reading. At second reading, I am registering two proposals in the system so far, I assume that the applicants will sign up for them. In the fundamental substance of the matter, we are talking about the sums that will follow from 2015 and the future, that is, how much Czech Post will receive, or what amounts it will receive in the coming years to compensate for this service for citizens - again stressing: non-profit services for citizens - to cover the network of postal services. And the second financial point is how big the compensation will be for those years 2013 and 2014, which are unsolved and for which the mail belongs the funds. There's already been a total of 800 miles. CZK, which is notified by the European Union as possible, because the support that the Czech Post has already received or is to receive Czech Post within 800 miles. CZK, it is notified by the European Union, as the translator correctly said here. I would like to point out that the notification took place quite without any problems from the very title that the Czech Telecommunications Authority, as a guarantor, set the amount of the aid at 1 billion. 400 miles. CZK, i.e. higher than the application for notification. So there wasn't a problem. Here I think it is worth considering also the amount that the Czech Post should receive. The rest, of course, in the context of a classic debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the Leo Luzar Economic Committee. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Dominik Feri, to present his report on the committee's discussion. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, allow me to introduce you to resolution No. 92 of 21 February 2019, as submitted from you by the House Press 202/3. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 19th meeting following the Ing submission report. Jiří Havlíček, MBA, Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade, following Mr Dominik Feri's report and following the debate, adopted a resolution recommending: 1. The Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve the 202/0 press in the submitted text; 2. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution; 3. Instructs the President of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. The proposal has already been presented by both the appellant and the pregnant rapporteur in such a process and in a manner that is sufficiently balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u7	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. I can open a general debate in which I have two applications with priority rights. The first application is the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. [[The Minister from the bench announces that he wants to speak in a detailed debate.]] All the way down to detail, okay. In that case, in the general debate, Vice-President Tomio Okamura. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the basic content of the proposed regulation is a change in the financing of the net costs of the Czech Post, i.e. the financing of the so-called loss services which they have to operate under the law. And what are these loss services? Let's see. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] The Czech Post must ensure universal availability of basic services throughout the Czech Republic as the holder of the postal licence. These are, for example, the delivery of mail to two kilograms, the delivery of postal parcels to 10 kilograms, but also the maintenance of a certain number of even loss-making branches. I'm a total layman in the field, but I couldn't help but notice that dozens of transport services work in the Republic, which are easy to transport shipments anywhere and are profitable. So to be honest, the post office gets subsidies for services that other companies make a lot of money on. Without the notice of our Minister of the Interior and the chiefs of the post office, we live in a time when the volumes of shipments have grown gigantically thanks to e-shops. For mail order companies, today is a golden mine and a paradise. Czech Post reportedly had the lowest profit in history last year, but that's probably a mistake. After deduction of public support, I think it will be a cruel loss, which is remarkable. He can lose despite offering beggars' wages for slave labor and having a huge advantage over competition - the densest network of branches. Well, there's a beggar's salary there. On the contrary, the highest leadership was famous for millions of rewards and golden parachutes. This advantage of a dense network of branches was able to turn Czech Post with its own genius into a disadvantage and over the years the post office has been trying to cancel its branches while, for example, a mail order. cz is with the help of small partners opens with exaggeration not in every city, but in every street. Of course, mail is one of the few places where a citizen enjoys a proper line as in socialism. Unlike socialism, however, the Czech Post almost stopped handing out packages in practice, for example, but chased them to pick up shipments at the post office, thereby increasing the queues. The fact that the mail cannot agree with the recipient on the telephone to take over at home as the only transport service is a small illustration of the catastrophic incompetence. Czech Post has become a tobacco and milk cow for various parasites. For example, one of the most famous cases is Patočka, editor-in-chief of the Referendum Diary. We learned that he received money from Czech Post from the Sobotka exhibitor after a journalist, who Patočka forbade to write about the shameful conditions at the Czech Post office. At the same time, we learned how Social Democrat ministers financed political nonprofits Patočka and others through state companies. And it would be good to repeat that these moral promotions of better-minded political nonprofits are dusty parasites that rob decent citizens and the state. Czech Post has the potential to make money from the state and to feed a decent number of people. By the end of the 1990s, the post office was making around billions of crowns. I think that the government and the responsible Interior Minister Jan Hamáček should finally take personal responsibility for the mail and embark on a fundamental reform of its work, organisation and services. Czech Post may be a gold mine, but governments have managed to liquidate it in the last ten years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u9	I thank Vice-President Okamur. I have no further application for the general debate. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I see no one, I can end the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. We can therefore continue by opening the debate in detail. The Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior and then Mr Luzar as rapporteur with priority rights, but not electronically, are entered into the detailed debate. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u10	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, in a detailed debate, I would just like to sign up to my amendment, which is registered under No. 2330. This concerns an increase in the limit for the so-called universal service, from 500 miles. 1.5 billion. Crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u11	I thank the Minister of the Interior and the Deputy Prime Minister. Now, the rapporteur, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to subscribe to House document 2659, which is in the system. It is a proposal to strengthen the funds for 2013 and 2014 for the Czech Post in the context of the correct bill of public support, which the Czech Post was to receive and did not receive in these years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-003-005.u13	Thank you. Anyone else in detail for the debate? I see no one, so I can also end the detailed debate. In a detailed debate, there was no proposal that we could vote on. I'm asking for final words. No one is interested in the final words, in which case I can end the second reading of this proposal and point No. 5. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister stays at the rapporteur's table because the next item is
