ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u1	31. Government bill amending certain tax laws in the context of raising public budget revenues / House print 509/ - second reading We interrupted the discussion of this point earlier today before the lunch break in the general debate. So, please, at the rapporteur's table, once again take the position of Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, and representing rapporteur on the budget committee, Mr Milan Feranec. I would remind you that, at first reading, we ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee, and the committee resolution was delivered as House Press 509/2. We will now continue with the interrupted general debate in which Members have come forward. I am the first to call on Mr Jan Skopeček to speak and to prepare Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr. Mr. Skopečka, you have the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u2	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present my amendments to this law, but allow me also a few general remarks which are repeated during this discussion, including committee discussions. However, I will not forgive myself not to draw attention to the two paradoxes of what we are discussing. The first paradox is that we are dealing with a law that increases taxes and is presented by a government that boasts that it is a government that will not raise taxes. That's the paradox first. The second paradox associated with this law is that when discussions are opened at any time, whether in plenary or on committees, about this law, it is most often referred to as a law which aims to combat gambling, tobacco and alcohol addiction, and it is already written in the bill itself that it is a law that amends tax laws in the context of increasing public budget revenues. And that's also the main point of the law. Not to fight addiction, but to increase tax revenue so that the government can redistribute taxpayers' money more and more. For this argument, too, when we look at the structure of the law, we find that the increased excise duty on alcohol, tobacco or gambling is not the dominant income, or the dominant part of the projected increase in income to the state budget. The main income of the state budget from the change, from the approval of this law is income from taxation of the so-called technical reserves of insurance companies. And we can certainly agree that whether we tax or not the technical reserves of insurance companies, it will have no effect on whether people in the Czech Republic will drink more, play more gambling or smoke more. So the law has one ambition - to increase the revenue of the state budget, it just had to be marketing wrapped in a little bit more acceptable packaging, so that it didn't scream so much for government-party voters. I think the law is a mistake, of course. I consider it a mistake to raise taxes at present. I agree with the economists who say we shouldn't talk about the crisis, because if we talk about it often and bow it down, it will come. I totally agree with that. Let's not do this. On the other hand, let us face it, and the Minister will admit that we simply have the top stage of the business cycle behind us, that we see relatively high risks abroad, whether it concerns hard brexit or even worse slowing down the German economy for us, and we agree that the best times are over by the Czech economy. At such a stage, coming up with a law that will raise taxes is not the best idea. And we continue with the tradition of Czech governments implementing procyclical fiscal policy. I think we could inspire ourselves in Slovakia, where they also feel weakening, where they also see that the numbers of economic growth will be weaker. What is the response of our Slovak colleagues to this new economic situation? The reaction of Slovak colleagues is that it comes with a package that reduces taxes so that at that difficult moment, in slowing down, they help the economy. We're doing the opposite. We want to raise taxes by this law. So we are doing the opposite of what we should be doing in the coming phase of the business cycle. Moreover, we are doing this at a time when we are increasing taxes, when this government is already making the tax quota at the highest level historically. Even according to the Ministry of Finance's materials, it is assumed that the combined tax quota will include a limit of 36% in the coming year, at least according to the Ministry of Finance's materials, so we have one of the biggest tax burdens in the history of the Czech Republic. And at such a moment, the government comes up with another proposal to raise taxes. Of course, we and priori cannot agree to that. We want a country where taxes will be reduced and simplified, and not where we will increase taxes the way it is done through this law. The economic growth that we have experienced, quite decently, in recent years and which we are still experiencing, suggests, and I refer again to the Ministry of Finance's materials, or to the draft budget for next year, that the government expects to spend more than 100 billion on this budget year-on-year thanks to high or decent economic growth. extra crowns. Year on year, this government will have more than 100 billion. CZK extra for his policy, for his redistribution. The moment we deduct from that the money that the government presumes, which this amendment is to bring, we would subtract 20 billion. I think, at the cost of actually being in that descending phase of the business cycle, that we can expect trouble from abroad, so I think the government would have taken that 20 billion. She could forgive the crown, yet she would have almost 90 billion. In addition to its priorities and its redistribution. I don't agree, or I have great doubts about the addiction struggle. We know, and economists call it elasticity of demand, and for goods like gambling, such as alcohol, such as cigarettes, we know that the elasticity of demand is very low. If I translate it, it means that if, Madam Secretary, this House, the government raises excise duty and makes these products more expensive to end consumers, then these end consumers will not respond to the increase in taxes, the price increase of this product will not respond to the same great reduction in consumption. What does that mean? That they will consume only a little less, but because of the price of these goods that we want to regulate, where we do not see well that they are consumed, they will spend more money on their disposable income than they spent before the tax went up. What can cause this? In the most endangered groups, it can cause those people simply not to forgive the alcohol, they will not forgive the cigarettes, they will pay more money for it from their disposable income, and even less will be left for lunches for their children in the school cafeteria. So this law, although in quotes here the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance are trying to defend him by fighting addiction, can paradoxically make the situation in the most risky social groups worse. When I was talking about it on the subcommittee, when we were discussing it, there was no such analysis as to refute this thesis. And of course, many times in the past it has been confirmed that consumers respond to the price increase for these products simply differently than for products that they can forgive. I could talk about individual types of taxes and individual types of proposals and express more or less disagreement with them. I will mention the most serious point that I really consider dangerous, and that is the taxation of the technical reserves of insurance companies where the government says that insurance companies that created reserves beyond European regulation or financial regulation, Solvent II, did something wrong, and as a punishment the government comes, taxing a large amount of money one-time during a very short period of time. And money, which, let's say, who owns it. [[15.10 hours]] The funds that constitute insurance reserves are the funds that have been paid to insurance undertakings by the clients of these insurance undertakings, and in particular for life insurance, these provisions serve as future performance of any insurance events. This has been done a thousand times before, but the Czech National Bank has also expressed itself negatively as a regulator in the financial market, and indeed, when we realize that this is a one-time income of the state budget, which this prodigal government will spend for example. at discounts for students and seniors or other populist promises, so I think it's a high price to pay for reducing the stability of our financial sector. A very important argument by which the Ministry of Finance justifies why excise rates should rise to alcohol, cigarette and gambling products, but also the proposed increase in administrative fees, the strong argument of the government and the Minister is that the last years of inflation have been taking place, wage growth and tax rates have not been in line with developments and should be adapted to inflation and real wage growth. However, when I used this argument in my amendment, in which I tried to increase the taxpayer's basic discount on personal income tax, which has not changed since 2008, although inflation and real wage growth have recorded relatively large percentage figures - and, for example, with my colleague Ferjenčík of the Pirates, we have tried to update this basic discount according to the calculation of inflation over the last years since 2008, according to the calculation of real wage growth, so that it corresponds to its original level in 2008 and again played the role of reducing the tax burden relatively strongly as in 2008, so the Minister rejected this proposal. She rejected him as she did in the past a few months ago when my colleague and I presented him, and she rejected him during the budget committee, because, of course, we read this proposal again. So I ask the Minister how it is possible that in one case it can argue inflation and it leads to it proposing an increase in excise duties on selected products, and in the case of basic tax discounts which have not changed since 2008, where inflation and real wages should have led to an increase in this basic deductible discount with the same logic in order to remain at relatively the same level as in 2008, so the Minister gave a disagreeable opinion. So, when it comes to it, inflation and wage growth are a good argument for us to raise taxes when it doesn't fit in the case of a basic discount, so that the taxpayer's tax burden falls, so this argument is not going to go away, so this argument doesn't apply. I think it's hypocritical that when you simply argue about inflation and real wage growth, you always have to use this argument, and not only when it suits you as the Minister's case for tax increases. The argument is a little funny even if we're talking about a planned increase in administrative fees, where a 100% increase is expected. Indeed, inflation and real wages did not grow by a hundred percent compared to the time when the administrative fees were adjusted. Now, about the amendments. Of course, I will support a wide range of amendments to your colleagues, especially those that will lead to a reduction in the tax burden. I will certainly support that the tax on the technical provisions of insurance companies should be abolished from this law, because I do not wish to reduce the financial stability of our insurance companies, virtually. the financial system. I have read as an amendment, on the one hand, a renewed increase in the tax payer's basic discount so that the Minister can be consistent when he already uses inflation and real wage growth for tax increases, so that he can be consistent and have a chance to back up our proposal, which he previously refused. I also propose a lower increase in this tax on excise alcohol than planned by the Ministry of Finance for many reasons. One reason is that it can, in my opinion, have a real negative impact on the most endangered social groups, but also because if we look at the tax burden on each type of alcohol - wine, beer, spirits - it is already very unfairly distributed at the expense of spirits and for the benefit of beer and wine, which has some cultural historical convention, I understand, but it does not seem reasonable to burden spirits even more at a time when they are already burdened above average compared to the other two types of alcohol. And the third amendment seeks to exempt from value added tax language courses for our children and seeks to exempt from VAT payments for final examinations recognised by the Ministry of Education as the final examination of language courses. I think language education in the Czech Republic is still something that we should focus on, which we should support. We should increase the ability of our children and students to speak more languages, and any proposal in this that would make it cheaper or easier to study foreign languages is only good these days. Well, that's my three amendments. But the main message, the main idea of this law is very simple - either you want to raise taxes at the moment, at a time when the tax quota is at record level and when our economy is at a descending stage of the economic cycle, or you don't want to increase taxes. That's for you to decide. I urge that we do not raise such high taxes in the Czech Republic and therefore do not support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u3	Thank you. I will ask you, Mr Member, to sign up for your amendments later in a detailed debate. I will now ask Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík to speak and Mr Tomáš Martínek will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at second reading, so I will primarily address my amendments. However, very briefly about the general debate. Pirates would not have a problem with the increase in excise duties provided that it would be accompanied by a reduction in labour taxation. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. That is why we are trying to remedy this within the framework of the amendments. That is why I, like my colleague Skopeček, propose to increase the discount on the taxpayer to CZK 30,000. While inflation was rising, real wages were rising, the discount on the taxpayer is not rising, which leads to a percentage of people paying e.g. the average wage of an ever-increasing tax. Pirates do not agree that labor taxation is increasing, so we propose to increase this discount so that all employees and businessmen pay CZK 5,000 less in taxes per year. I also proposed an increase of discounts in the compromise option to CZK 27,000, i.e. just over 2,000 crowns, for all employees and businessmen. I wanted to come forward because we failed several times with the proposal for CZK 30,000, so I also proposed a compromise option that several colleagues asked me to do. So we're proposing an increase in reductions on the taxpayer, reducing labor taxation, which should compensate for the increase in excise duties. Another amendment is an amendment that abolishs tax changes in gambling. My primary concern is to keep the gambling tax system balanced. Today, rates are rising significantly especially in live games, which is my own. poker, which we do not agree with, is rising taxes on exchange rate bets, with which I also have a problem when there is a massive tide from stone branches to the Internet. I think there's even going to be a negative impact on the state budget because people are going to start betting on foreign websites. And if there is no balanced compromise within the House, that is why I am reading an amendment that completely abolishes changes in the rates of gambling taxes. [[15.20 hours]] Furthermore, I propose that the tax on the technical provisions of insurance companies be withdrawn from that law. Very briefly - what is the problem? The problem is that the Czech National Bank, the regulator, orders insurance companies to hold a certain amount of technical provisions. Those reserves that insurance undertakings must hold are higher than 100 per cent of the solvency II reserves. This means, on the one hand, the government says that if the insurance company has reserves of more than 100 percent of the solvency II reserves, it will tax the difference and, at the same time, the Czech National Bank as a regulator says: you must have more than 100 percent of the Solvency II. So the minimum reserves that the CNB recognises so that the insurance companies don't withdraw their licenses and forbid the directors to run the insurance company at all and leave some kind of forced administration, so the limit is higher than the limit the government wants for the taxation. So even an insurance company that holds reserves to the minimum required by the Czech National Bank will pay some tax, which is paid in fact in advance. We are open to a debate on greater taxation of the financial sector, although I think that the problem is significantly greater with banks than with insurance companies. However, the technical implementation that the government has chosen is extremely unfortunate. In fact, it punishes those insurance companies that were preparing for floods or were generally more cautious in how they made provisions for the payment of insurance premiums, and it is earned by those who, on the contrary, maximized it and made the largest amount of profits abroad. Therefore, I propose that this measure be withdrawn from this law. Furthermore, I propose that we reconcile the increase in the prices of cigarettes with Poland. Therefore, I propose to spread the price up to two steps, where one would be in January and one in July next year. According to our calculations, the budgetary impacts will be absolutely minimal, rather we wait, as they say, a positive zero, because the frontload will fall and at the same time there will be a smaller flow of cigarette sales to Poland and Slovakia. Why do I say align with Poland? In July, Poland is going to increase this tax. So at this point, when we have a higher price for cigarettes than we do in Poland and we're going to increase it, if we wait for an increase on the Polish side, then the customer flow to Poland will be smaller, and our tax administration will make a profit on it. So it's kind of a small rationalization of this measure, and priori with an increase in excise duty on cigarettes, we have no problem at all. And I don't want to just stick to the expense page, virtually. on the increase of state budget resources, on the reduction of tax increases, so I propose that one tax exemption be abolished, and that is an exemption from income tax. I stress only for income above CZK 20 million when selling securities. I believe that, like in Austria, we should reduce the number of tax exemptions. I see no reason for the sale of securities over CZK 20 million to be exempt from income tax. At a time when a person at work pays about 45 percent of taxes and levies, I see no reason why the sale of securities after three to five years should be zero if it is also income. Therefore, I propose that this type of income should be subject to tax as to all others. Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u5	Now I'm going to read one apology. The President of the Committee on European Affairs Ondřej Benešík apologizes today from 14.30 to 15.30 for working reasons. And I will now request Mr Tomáš Martínek's speech, the last one so far in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on a few of my amendments that I will be reading. They concern, on the one hand, the introduction of restrictions on the exemption of winnings, which, according to the Government's proposal, is to be a tax deduction of over 100 thousand. A kind of acceptable compromise has been adopted on the Committee on Budgets, where the amount is increased to a million and it is not directly a withholding tax. Anyway, if the original government proposal had not been rationalised, I would also be happy to see some amendments that address the current issue of the government proposal adopted. First of all, it is taxation only net wins, because the current proposal is written so that if you bet 90 grand, you win 110 grand, so would tax the entire 110 grand, and not just 20, which is a net win. It is also an amendment which introduces a tax only on value exceeding that limit, i.e. 100 thousand. Furthermore, an adjustment to increase the limit in order to cover, in particular, larger winners and not small players. In addition, I also propose that, in the event that no compromise or rationalization proposal be adopted, the abolition of the proposal in question to amend the exemption of winnings. In addition, I am putting forward further amendments. One of them is dedicated to repealing Section 59 of the Gaming Act, which affects tournaments that have a precise start time, and there is no indication of the number of participants in the tournament, called. scheduled tournaments. The vast majority of these tournaments are guaranteed, so their organisation limits Section 59 of the Gaming Act, often so that it is impossible to organize such a tournament. In creating this provision, the existence of a late registration phase has been neglected, as well as the fact that some tournaments have more starting days. If the interpretation of Section 59 of the Gaming Act applies in the sense that a pre-established minimum amount of winnings means a guaranteed price fund for the tournament, then it is difficult to find a way to organize such a tournament in stone casinos, and a partial solution for online tournaments allowing Czech players to enter the tournament after the selection of 50 percent guarantee, it can be considered as a disadvantage compared to players from other countries. The second part of the Gambling Act, setting out the maximum percentage of all deposits in the winnings paid, is also introduced in the Gambling Tax Act under the Government Bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation and certain other laws announced in March 2019. For this reason, we consider the second part of Section 59 on gambling redundant. So this is one amendment that will certainly cost your attention because it has no negative budgetary implications and de facto helps to address the current discriminatory situation of players mainly in online. I also propose an amendment concerning a change in the rate for live games, where it is proposed to anchor a lower tax rate for those live card games where players play against each other, not against the casino, and the result of the game is also influenced by the skills and experience of individual players, i.e. it does not depend solely on chance. Poker, for example. A player in such games can count combinations and probabilities, both his and his opponents. According to this, he can then decide on the procedure in the given game. For example, whether it is appropriate to bet more or less, or to end your participation in a live game completely. The player can also watch the game of the opponent and look for a suitable strategy, possibly also bluff. Such games show a lower level of social hazard, which is why I propose to them amendments introducing lower ones or adding them to a lower rate, namely either to the government proposed by 25 per cent or to the current 23 per cent. The amendment is written in such a way that it either concerns all live games, or only poker and other card games that satisfy what I have just said are reserved. In all cases, I will be happy to support your amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u7	I will now look at whether I still have an application for a general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words after the general debate. There will be a detailed debate. Madam Secretary? No. The rapporteur? Not either. So I am opening up a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. 15 Members have applied for the floor. So I am the first to call on Mrs Věra Kovářová to prepare Mr Václav Votava. So, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would therefore like to justify my amendments, or the first one is not only my amendment, but also my colleagues Ferjenčík and Bartošek. This is because we have basically tabled three similar amendments to the Committee on Budgets, so we have merged it into an amendment of one. The essence of the amendment is that the planned increase in the fees for the deposit in the land register is abolished to double, i.e. we leave a thousand crowns, so we cancel the increase to CZK 2,000, and this also applies to municipalities and other entities with a fixed maximum amount, which they must pay in multiple transfers to the land register, where the amount increased to CZK 20,000 out of ten. That's what he's saying. We cannot agree with the increase in the administrative deposit fee in the cadastral, as the main argument for the increase is the need to include inflation from the last correction of the deposit fee in the cadastral property. From a lay point of view, too, it is clear that over the last few years inflation has not reached a total of 100%, as the fee is increased. The government also argues by increasing the cost of the deposit procedure, but this increase is not calculated in any way. It is therefore only possible to speculate on the true nature and purpose of the proposed amendment... Sorry, fellow Members of the President, I know you're laughing at this, but it's more of a cry, but I hope you'll at least support the amendment. Thank you. Furthermore, an increase in comfort associated with increasing the fee to double, etc. is also not expected. Of course, digitization should lead to cost savings rather than an increase to the real estate cadastral, as argued here. Therefore, for these reasons, we propose to exempt the amendment from the amendment. At the same time, if you want to look at the specific wording of this amendment, you will find it under House document 3430. I therefore sign up for this joint amendment. The second amendment concerns technical taxation or the exclusion of life insurance provisions from the government bill. The Government's proposal for an amendment to the Income Tax Act and the Reserves Act for the determination of the income tax base leads to an extreme, one-off impact on insurance companies' life insurance reserves, which are, in particular, citizens of the Czech Republic, often older, who save in the long term in the life insurance system, in confidence in its stability and security. It also leads to taxation of future profits of insurance companies and thus to the risk of future payments of life insurance benefits to clients, such as health, disability or death benefits. This amendment removes the most serious effects of the defects of the Government's bill, up to the risk of payment of life insurance benefits for clients, taxation of most of the future profits of insurance companies in advance and double taxation of selected items. The proponents of the government's proposal justify their intention, and the main reason why this is happening, I think the reasons I mentioned above, is confusion and conceptual incomparability. I think this has been mentioned here several times, namely the inalienability of accounting reserves according to Czech accounting and reserve regulations according to the rules of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009, the so-called Solvent II. For the sake of compromise, it is resigned to eliminate all technical shortcomings of the Government Act and then proposed that the taxing of the difference in the transition to the new tax methodology should take place immediately after the first tax period following the application of the Act. The amendment in Section 6 of the Act on reserves for the determination of the income tax base brings a change in the recognition of technical provisions in insurance in the tax base of the taxpayer for non-life insurance. In this respect it is also necessary to make an adjustment to the subsequent provisions of the Income Tax Act. According to the previous adjustment, for insurance and reinsurance undertakings as expenditure reducing the income tax base, the eligible technical provision was the formation of a technical reserve, with the exception of other technical provisions under accounting regulations, at the level of which it was booked under those regulations, for both life and non-life insurance purposes. According to our amendment, for non-life insurance, technical provisions will no longer be eligible under accounting regulations, but technical provisions created under the Insurance Act. The technical reserves are regulated by Section 52 et seq. of the Insurance Act, which is based on the European Parliament's Directive, i.e. the so-called Solvent II. The provisions in the field of life insurance thus, according to the amendment, will continue to be tax deductible in accordance with accounting regulations, that is, there is no change compared to the current situation. I therefore subscribe to House Document No 3431 and to this amendment. And then we have a third amendment, which, in a detailed way, in a compromise way, removes and alleviates certain defects that I mentioned when reading the previous amendment. [[similar?]] It can therefore be concluded, among other reasons, that the most serious effects of these defects are mitigated by this amendment by leaving the accounting reserve for undeserved premiums as tax deductible. Secondly, by leaving the accounting reserve for the liabilities of the Czech insurer's office as tax-recognizable and further specifying the definition for the temporal differentiation of initial expenses. And for the further exclusion of double taxation of foreign permanent establishments using the method of crediting tax paid abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, I could probably discuss this amendment further, but I will not do so and I will refer to House document 3432. I hereby sign up for this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u9	Thank you and I will now ask for Mr Václav Votava's speech and Mr Radek Koten will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would first like to sign up for the two amendments that have been put into the system. The first amendment was introduced under number 3414, concerns the taxation of winnings, and the second amendment was introduced into the system under number 3415 and concerns the rates of gambling tax. In short, I would like to justify the various amendments. [[15.40 hours]] As regards the taxation of winnings, the proposal I propose removes from the bill the points which introduce the taxation of winnings from gambling over CZK 100,000 by withholding tax. I would like to remind you that in 2015, the Ministry of Finance submitted a proposal for a Gaming Tax Act, and part of the explanatory memorandum was the final report, an assessment of the effects of RIA regulation. This report states that the tax on winnings in the form of withholding tax meets a number of barriers and establishes a presumption of non-systemic exemptions which undermine efforts to maintain fundamental principles of tax law. It is not possible to apply the principle based on taxing the difference between costs, that is bets, and earnings, that is wins. It is therefore not possible to account for losses from the playing against the basis for calculating the tax in the period when the profit was generated, i.e. winnings, thus preventing a reduction in the tax liability by these very costs. It must also be said that this method of withholding taxation for all gambling does not apply to any of the countries of the European Union, at least I do not know about it. The proposal to tax winnings is therefore not supported by an analysis of the impact on players or on gambling as a whole. Maybe there's one other thing worth remembering is that it's basically about the so-called receipt. We may well know why the receipt was thus created - to strengthen people's ability, to be more interested in whether they were given proof of the sale of goods, and then, of course, they could apply the receipt to the receipt and compete so as to encourage people's interest in issuing receipts within the EET. It bothers me a little that it's always said that the receipt is a gamble run by the state, which, in my opinion, is totally stupid. How can it be a gamble for a man who buys some goods and then uses a bill? I don't think anybody's shopping for receipts to be used. I think he'd be crazy. I think it's, I'm sorry, as I said, a total crap claim that a receipt is a gamble. So much for taxing winnings. As regards the second amendment, it is under number 3415 in the system. The government proposal considers increasing the tax on live games from 23 to 30 percent. My amendment changes it from 23 to 25 percent. I would like to say that a live game achieves profitability only 11 percent, and this is also based on an analysis by the Ministry of Finance, so I am not saying that I would invent it. The highest yield - profit - is then achieved by gambling, which works with a high margin and has a significant amount of bets. Such games are clearly technical games, or crates. Everyone who has anything to do with city councils and municipalities knows for sure what I'm talking about, because in a number of cases it's a problem, especially sometimes an impact on human destinies. So there I am clearly in favour of making the rates as high as possible for the technical games, by the boxes. Something else is a live game that has a share in the commission in the order of per cent. In view of the above and given the fact that the only purpose of the bill presented is to secure higher revenues in public budgets, I think it is not appropriate, indeed it is directly liquidation to increase taxes to legal operators of live games in casinos. I therefore propose that there should be no tax increases of 7 percentage points for these games, but only by 2 percentage points. A number of previous speakers here have also mentioned that if we raise taxes insensitively for certain games, then the game shifts from the segment, the particular game system, to the grey zone. That's right, that's just how it works. So much for my two amendments and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u11	I will now give only a short space before Mr Radek Koten comes, Mrs Kovářová, because she has asked me to say the numbers of her amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u12	Thank you for the floor. Just in case - I am signing up for my amendments under Houses documents 3430, 3431 and 3432. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u13	I will now ask for Mr Radek Koten's speech. Member Jan Hrnčíř will be ready. But just a moment, I'll read two apologies. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Jiří Kohoutek apologizes today from 17.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to justify my amendment under No. 3435. The reason is that there is an increase in the limit defining separate material movable things as tangible property, from the existing CZK 40,000 to CZK 100,000. In practice, this means that small assets up to CZK 100,000 can be used as tax-efficient expenditure by the taxpayer on a one-time basis. At the same time, this limit extends to constructions, as in practice there were situations where the taxpayer would build, for example, a fence for 35,000, but tax write-off for 20 years, so accounting is disproportionately burdened. Similarly, the proposal increases the limit for the definition of animals as material assets, which has been effective since 2009, further the creation of other assets on the part of the user in the case of financial leasing, which has also been effective since 1999, and the material assets excluded from depreciation, which are transferred free of charge under the contract for financial leasing, if the expenditure related to the acquisition of the latter does not exceed that limit, as well as the technical assessment of the material assets. The proposal for a new limit for the definition of separate material movable items as tangible assets is intended primarily to enable accounting units of the integrated rescue system, such as the Fire Rescue Corps, the Police of the Czech Republic and other components, to make faster depreciation of more expensive equipment and equipment. At the same time, it will help the business sector significantly mainly in terms of building its infrastructure and also the state in the building of a digital state. The harmonisation of the tax regime for these categories of assets will then contribute to the clarity and fairness of income tax. This valorisation is proposed over the entire 21 years, as it has become more valid since 1998. The proposal for a new limit of 100,000 is set quite adequately if we compare it now with the government proposed by a 100% increase in the fee for the property deposit, which is already coming after seven years, and is therefore justified by inflation. That would be all. I hope that the government that supports or at least reports support to the business sector and simplification of accounting and so on, and support for business, so hopefully it will also support this proposal. So this is my application to my amendment, which is under House document 3435. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u15	I now call for Mr Jan Hrnčíř's speech. Mrs Jana Krutáková will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the three amendments that I have already mentioned in the general debate. This is an amendment which is conducted in the system under No. 3388. This is an increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer and the discounts on the spouse under the Income Tax Act to 27 400 of the current 24 840 crowns. Furthermore, it is an amendment that is in the system under No. 3428. This is a reduction in income tax for small companies similar to Slovakia, i.e. companies with income up to 3 million per tax period - a decrease in tax rate from 19 to 16 percent. And the third proposal in the system under number 3429. This is an increase in the amount for the exemption of occasional income from CZK 30,000 per year to CZK 36,000. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u17	Thank you. I will now ask for the speech of Mrs Jana Krutáková and Mr Ondřej Veselý will prepare himself. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which I have introduced to you in more detail in the general debate and which is introduced in the system under the number of House document 3436. I will just briefly remind you that the amendment complements the list of parcels in the category of other areas which form landscape elements and are exempt from taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u19	I will now ask for Mr Ondřej Veselý's speech. Mr Radek Holomčík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am applying to the amendment, which is recorded as House document 3454. It is a simple modification where, in Part 7 of Article 12, the amendment points are changed by changing the number 23 to 35, and in Part 7 of Article 12, the amendment points 2 to 7 are deleted. Just a simple explanation. The increase in the rate is due to the fact that we believe that the more profitable games should be taxed. For the others, we leave it to the original text, which is in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u21	Thank you. Mr Bartošek, President of the KDU-ČSL Club, now with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u22	Thank you. Here in the detailed debate, I would like to apply to several amendments. The first is under number 3416. In essence, it is that I want to increase the rate for the technical game sub-base to 40 per cent, while at the same time this amendment addresses ensuring the financing of the fight against addiction so as not to increase the social harm and consequences of addiction. To this end, funds directly generated by the regulated area in question should primarily be used and the use of funds from gambling tax offers a stable financial flow for the drug policy programme. This is for order in the system under number 3416. Furthermore, the amendment under number 3417, which essentially maintains 30% of the taxation of technical games, is proposed once again to exclude 1% of the purpose of implementing drug policy. Basically, it is a solution to the situation in the area of prevention and treatment. Amendment 3418. As I said in the general debate, given how the law was prepared, it is not possible to tax insurance companies in this way because we do not know what it will do, so I believe that they are at risk of what the government is presenting, future payments of benefits to clients in the environment, for example in the event of a deterioration in health, disability or death. [[insurance]] This amendment removes these serious effects by removing the proposed amendment. It is also an amendment under number 3419. I'm convinced if you win, the state shouldn't take money from this win. The government is proposing to tax over 100,000. It has already been made clear in the previous parliamentary term that it is difficult technically feasible or almost impossible to tax winnings, or where they tried to do so, that was not the case. And for that reason... for example, the record of winnings must be kept, it is difficult to do so. And as I say, when you win something, I don't see why the state should still tax it. That means I'm making a suggestion that people don't get paid to win. I also have an amendment under number 3420 in the system, but I do not report to that, because the same issue is addressed by Amendment 3430, which we have tabled together with my colleague Kovářová and Mr Ferjenčík. And the last amendment is 3426. It's about the boiler rooms. Although the Committee on Budgets adopted this proposal, I do not know how to vote on the whole of these amendments. For this reason, I am loading here separately a proposal which leaves the tax rate in the home boilers at the original level. This is because people who live in housing houses and drown in this way do not generate profit, they cannot be considered to compete with heat companies. I believe that this proposal does not meet the ecological dimension, it discourages investment in the transition of boiler rooms owners to solid fuels and cleaner heating. It is essentially a financial burden for citizens who have invested in ecological solutions in the form of a gas boiler room. And as I said in the general debate, today's expensive housing is a situation where the government wants to make housing more expensive for people again. For the people's sake, I can say that we fundamentally disagree. On the contrary, we should make this situation easier for people who want to live, and not make their lives cheaper, even in economically acceptable conditions. So many of my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u23	Now one apology. For work reasons, he apologizes from 17:00 to 19:00 today by Member Jaroslav Holík. I will now ask for Radek Holomčík's speech and Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is conducted in the system as House document 3440. The justification is both part of the document and I made it in the general debate. It concerns liberalisation of access to home-cooked beer. In the general debate, I also announced that I would propose the accompanying resolution that I justified, and I would like to read it. "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. notes that the cultivation burning is a traditional way of producing alcohol in the Czech Republic and that the realistic tax regime for this method of production is part of a rational drug policy that leads to a reduction in the total amount of illegal and uncontrolled alcohol production; II. Points out that the current design of excise duty rates determined by European law lacks sufficient flexibility; III. Calls on the Government to address the issue of rates and excise duties at European Union level and to familiarise the Chamber of Deputies with the steps it has taken on this matter by 1 December 2020.' I would also like to sign up for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u25	Thank you. I am now calling for Mr Martin Kupka's speech and with priority right will be prepared by the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u26	Mr President, dear colleagues, I would like to subscribe to House Document No 3451, which is my amendment, which is very simple. It maintains the current rate of taxation for lotteries, odds, totalizer games, as well as live games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u27	Thank you. Now with priority rights chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u28	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to my colleagues who were ahead of me, but that point was unexpectedly placed for the afternoon, so I was worried I wouldn't make it to 7:00 so I wouldn't be blamed for obstruction, so I'd rather logged in at about 4:00 p.m. to the microphone. First, allow me a few general remarks, perhaps more than a few, and then two specific amendments, including justification. I rarely agree with Minister Maláčová, but today, when she performed this morning, she said, among other things, a sentence that I would sign that repetition is the mother of wisdom. So let me repeat some of the arguments put forward by my previous speakers. The first issue that I really consider most serious in this bill is the sector tax for insurance companies. [[16.00 hours]] In the morning, when I had the TV on, she spoke from some senior financial secretary's record, Secretary Schillerová, and I remembered that sentence. She said, "Those insurance companies can make the technical provisions as they like, as they see fit." [[Min. Taxable.]] You didn't say that anymore. But even if it was, it's not true. I do not deliberately use the stronger term we would find in Czech language, no doubt. It's not true, and I don't know if the secretary said it intentionally or unintentionally. The technical provisions, if the insurance undertaking wishes to apply them, shall be subject to multiple checks. It's not like the head of the insurance company says, "I'm going to raise the technical reserves tax-recognizable," and that's it. There is an external audit that audits insurance companies, which examines this very carefully. There is an internal auditor who is independent of management, who carefully examines this. There is a respectable profession, and according to my information, this company, which brings together these experts, celebrated a hundred years ago, and these are insurance mathematicians. These are experts who calculate insurance plans and future risks and future potential returns of insurance companies, and their results cannot be obtained. [[Nesroz.]] Even their remuneration is controlled by the regulator, the Czech National Bank, so they cannot be rewarded and motivated to pay higher wages by writing insurance plans according to the wishes of the management or owners of the insurance company. And, of course, there is supervision of the Czech National Bank. So the sentence that insurance companies can determine the amount of technical provisions they need, whether it's tax-recognizable or not, isn't true and doesn't correspond to reality, and it's a deliberate distortion and it covers the true state of affairs. The proposal we have on the table, I would call it, in terms of insurance companies, quite simply: it is a nationalisation of insurance clients' money. I was not at the meeting of the subcommittee, which took place perhaps last or last week, where according to my information, a question was asked about the representatives of the Czech National Bank, how the regulator, the Czech National Bank, would behave if the insurance companies responded in an expected way to the draft law, which means that the technical reserves should be at the minimum level mentioned in the European Solvency II Directive, which Minister Schillerová likes to talk about. Do you know what the representative of the Czech National Bank said? I'm sure the Secretary of State knows, but I don't know if you all know. "We would start administrative proceedings with you at the end of which the withdrawal of the licence could be." In other words, if our insurance companies, which are subject to the supervision of the Czech National Bank, had technical reserves only of the amount prescribed by Solvency II, i.e. at a minimum level, they should have a problem with the regulator, they could lose their license and it could point to having to end their activities in the Czech Republic. The reason is simple. The minimum reserve in terms of caution and stability of this market is not sufficient for the regulator in the Czech Republic. I understand, and I think that's the right approach. Especially spicy is the proposal to tax life insurance provisions. According to the Minister, tax optimization and companies occur, respectively. Insurance companies avoid paying taxes. But the Treasury and the government as a whole here are proposing to tax future profits that no one knows if they will or won't. But we're gonna get them! I don't understand. I don't know what the secretary's assignment was. Scratch everything you can? Tax what moves? Tax everything we can think of? Or I don't know what the assignment was. One of the previous speakers here said that the idea is repeatedly created in the bowels of this honorable building, the Ministry of Finance, repeatedly suggested to ministers, and all ministers, apart from Secretary Schillerová, rejected it. Honestly, there's nothing wrong with me meeting the insurance representatives who mind the most, they said it much more squeaky, I might use a stronger word, the arrogance of the Treasury. They have been promised negotiations with the proposals to be consulted, and this meeting has not been held at the Minister's level. To this day. Mostly, I heard it before the government approved the proposal. If anybody says it is correct negotiations with industry representatives, which according to my information for 30 years in the Czech Republic, or 28 in the Czech Republic and two years in the Federation, did not want a crown from the state budget. I don't remember the case that the state budget, and therefore the taxpayers had to bail out their taxes, and thus through the state budget, some failed insurance companies. Yes, there were insurance companies that failed to meet their obligations to their clients, especially in the catastrophic floods of 1997 and 2002. But those liabilities were taken over by other insurance companies in the Czech Republic and paid each client insurance benefits without compensation and without a request to participate in the state budget, which is simply impossible to say about other parts of the financial market, there was a different situation. In fact, the proposed taxation is at the rate of one annual profit of the whole sector. They say it's fair. Well, it's not fair for insurance clients! Compared with the reserves that other business entities can create, it is not fair, because it is a completely different regime. We are the only country in Europe, in the European Union, that wants to address the tax deductibility of technical provisions according to Solvency II. I have repeatedly asked the Deputy Minister for a budget committee to give me a case from another European country and not because he could not. They didn't have that idea anywhere else. Nowhere at all. So I don't really know the motivation, except for someone drawing 10 billion. in the budget, because it takes the amount of reserves, it multiplys by 0.19, the three-member gives the result. As a helpful step, it is said that it will decompose within two years. It is precisely a step towards increasing motivation for the contribution of profits from the Czech Republic. According to my information, and the Minister can confirm or disprove them, insurance companies as a sector may be the largest holder of government bonds, and many of them say that if the law passes, they will have to invest and will not invest further in government bonds. And the owners? They are very likely to respond by either setting up a branch of a foreign company, so they will not pay anything at all on taxes, neither on technical reserves, nor on income taxes, pay anything at all, or pay any money they earn outside the Czech Republic. I often hear Andrej Babiš say words about the need to either prevent or motivate owners not to take profits from the Czech Republic to invest it in the Czech Republic, and that is the right opinion. But this measure goes exactly against this plan. I had a rhetorical question on the budget committee, which is why I'm saying rhetorical - who's next when insurance companies pass now? Will it be health insurance? They also have reserves. Perhaps it could also bring something to the budget with some justification, for example, that people's health will become better cared for than health insurance companies, as we hear here the false justification of proposals to increase excise duty. But I'm gonna get to that. So the most dangerous thing for clients, for citizens, for the stability of the financial market is the proposal to introduce a sector tax on insurance companies, which is called technically so that no one understands, the taxation of the technical reserves of insurance companies. If you look at the economic results of, for example, insurance companies and banks, you will find that the banking sector has many times higher profits in total than the insurance sector. Unlike, for example, our pirate colleagues, we have heard on the Committee on Budgets, we do not propose a sector tax on banks or insurance companies, and I respect that as a regular political opinion that I do not agree with. [[16.10 hours]] However, this is even worse than the sectoral tax, what the Minister and the Government as a whole propose. However, banks seem to need government members for something, and insurance companies don't. There's no other explanation. I would understand the opinion of the government that would like to... I would understand - I would understand the political view of the government that it wants to introduce a sector tax in selected sectors of the economy. We would be politically opposed, because we think that eventually the clients of the so-called affected industries will pay for it. But here we see the method that it's being introduced in some sector, not in some sector, but it's disguised by another name. We voted on the Committee on Budgets on several amendments to this point. I think both of them, if they come - and I think my colleagues have read them in plenary at second reading - deserve our support. Of course, it's best to cancel completely. This is an amendment that the civil democrats will support. We'd put him in, too, but there's no point in competing who's gonna make the proposal, who's first, who's second. It is important to get support for this in the Chamber of Deputies. At this point, I would like to offer the Minister a political compromise, because I think one of the amendments represents a political compromise, which partly compromises the taxes on the technical reserves, but at the same time does not threaten the most sensitive area, which is the money of clients and the future payment to clients. I think that if we agreed in the Chamber of Deputies and agreed that the acceptable compromise - and I think it is worse than not having it there at all - is that we will remove life insurance from taxation. By the way, life insurance has always been outside of taxation, regardless of whether an amendment has been loaded and approved or not. It has always been exempt from potential taxation in the Czech Republic. And the compromise is that the other part, actually, is the smaller part, could be taxed. Not with our consent, but I'd say the duel wouldn't be so fierce. As if I still expect a fierce battle for the final wording of this proposal. As usual, we're late discussing the law. We're only at second reading in the lower chamber. When this goes through to the third reading and we approve it at the third reading, it goes into the upper chamber. I think the government has also noticed that the upper chamber has a different political composition, that the opposition here has a majority in the upper chamber, and vice versa. So it is highly likely that there will be no compromise on the more complex issues that the law will either be rejected or returned with some amendments. And 1. 1. 2020 is coming up. Even in a more optimistic scenario, the bill will come out around Christmas. In less optimistic, I would say realistic, the scenario will be published in the Collection of Laws after the New Year. I recognise the numbers in the Chamber of Deputies. It is clear to me that the government majority will work and that the law will be passed in the end, there is no dispute about that. The question is, what form? And the insurance sector is really in a form that's dangerous. Madam Secretary says it's not for her government, it's for future governments. So I'm telling you for the future government, we don't want the money. Leave them to the clients, leave them to the insurance companies. We can handle the state budget without the money. So don't tell me you're doing a good deed to our government that you're bringing in some additional tax resources. And if so, you meant nicely, thank you very much, we reject this gift because it is at the expense of citizens, clients and insurance companies. Or maybe you didn't mean it and you're looking forward to spending the money. Even at the cost of lower stability of the insurance segment, even at the cost of threatening the flow of finance, profits, dividends. But there's also a risk of the brain drain, the top experts, the insurance mathematicians. Because it is a really special profession, and those experts do not run thousands in the Czech Republic or in other countries. And if they do not have the conditions for their work in the Czech Republic, they will work in another Member State of the European Union and we will not have any payments on their wages and we will not have a tax on dependent activity on their wages. That means I don't even get it fiscally, this solution. At first glance, 10 billion looks like an amount that is crucial to the state budget. However - and now I don't know whether we already have it as the House press, whether the draft budget has arrived or not. But from what the government last discussed, we have 1 610 billion expenses for next year. That means one percent is 16 billion, so 10 billion is less than one percent, developed within two years is less than half a percent. It is nothing that threatens the budget, but it threatens the sector. So I say to the civil democrats that we will support both the complete discharge of this part of the law and the compromise, which means removing the area of life insurance. It would still be difficult for the sector, but it's an amount that's less than four billion compared to the ten. This means that life insurance would not be in jeopardy and future client returns would not be compromised, that is to say, our insured citizens. And to say that it doesn't show up on clients, on prices, on future returns, it just isn't realistic and it's not honest. Of course, the additional tax burden will be reflected in the prices of products and in the reduced yields of money imposed by our citizens. And our voters, to say it exactly. Several colleagues here have been talking about gambling tax. We have adopted an amendment to the Committee on Budgets, with a rather close vote, that is to say, when everyone actually voted against the YES movement, if I remember correctly. Like the stake in the fence, the famous stake in the fence of Milouš Jakeš, the members of the ANO movement remained on the budget committee. The argument for this increase is quite weak. Madam Secretary said bingo has a moderate risk of addiction. [[Nesroz.]] I'm not questioning it. However, the key thing here was said by Mr Bartošek. Who among you sat here in the last parliamentary term and remembers the negotiation of a new, modern, European-like gambling law - and now I don't mean it ironically - knows that part of the opposition, such as the citizens' democrats, supported the law because they appreciated one element in particular. And that's a register of players that was supposed to prevent gambling from becoming problematic groups. Among other things, those who abuse social benefits. We were even in favour of a wider prevention so that those who receive benefits from society could not spend them in gambling. To this day, the register doesn't work. I mean, Madam Secretary, if we knew, we wouldn't have supported the law. You've got us all figured out. We jumped into your decoy. Because it's a really good thing. [[The secretary says it will be launched within six months.]] Well, in six months. That'll be 2020. Well, you're launching it, Madam Secretary, as you say, within six months. So I'll take the secretary's word for it. The first April 2020 test operation will be started. It takes some time for it to be in sharp traffic. I totally understand that. I understand everything. [[Nesroz.]] When was the law passed? 2015 or 2016, I don't know. But if it were 2016. Four years will take the Treasury to put a good thing into operation in the law. For four years, these people could continue to pay tribute to gambling. I have no excuse for that. Four years late for a good cause, supported by the opposition. So it's not true that we automatically criticize the government for everything it comes up with. There was a political compromise at tax rates. The Minister repeatedly stressed against the will of the then government, but that is not important. It is not important what is at the beginning of the legislative process. It's important what's at the end. [[16.20 hours]] We have numbers for the first years 2017, 2018. The smartest thing at the moment is to maintain the status quo. The market has dealt with him somehow. I think the trend - we can say unfortunately, we may not like it, but it's clear. More and more gambling will be on the Internet, less gambling will be in the classic gambling rooms. That's just technological development. There's nothing we can do about it. And I think the big boom - I'm not happy about it - is losing odds betting, etc. They're also betting on us, on the election, who wins them, who loses them. Colleagues who run for Senate elections are scheduled for classes. Some of my colleagues made a bet before the last election and won because they trusted their political party. And they won the course because we achieved a result that the bookies didn't believe. Or those who write betting odds. The argument after two years of changing a system that hasn't settled properly seems weak to me. And there's an increase in the risk that the return will eventually be lower. If we maintain the status quo, and I think that such amendments have fallen both in the Committee on Budgets and here at plenary at second reading, I think that we can responsibly plan the return from gambling. We can say whether it's, as the secretary said, a respectable profession or not. But it's legal. And when a business is legal, it's supposed to have normal conditions. And if it isn't legal, that's what law enforcement agencies are doing to combat illegal business or circumvent tax law. So in terms of raising rates, we will certainly support, as citizens' democrats, the maintenance of existing rates so that they can be realisticly planned. So that revenue from these three types of gambling can be realisticly planned for the state budget. Completely funny, but really funny is proposed tax winnings. And even more comical is after so-called. an improvement proposal prepared by the Ministry of Finance - I am sorry, I do not know which of the colleagues from the Budget Committee will sign up for it. I think the Committee on Budgets accepted him. If we take seriously what's written in that text, we are introducing a new business here, a completely free trade that you don't even have to register for, which is called a gambler. Because the Ministry said that in the end, the winnings would not be so meaningless, because sometimes you would tax more than the winnings, especially in exchange-rate betting, accepted these objections and skated out of it, that any winnings against what that person had bet for the financial year, which is twelve years old, would be taxed. Twelve months, I'm sorry. So I imagine the tax office will prescribe such a possible tax on winnings. So he knocks somewhere and says, "Do you go to the game room?" A man may confess. Sometimes there's cameras, sometimes there's gotta be cameras by law. He says, "I'm walking." So show me your confirmation every day when you were there, how much you bet and how much you won. Are you keeping a ledger or at least a cash register? Add up what you bet me. Count me what you won. If that amount is plus and is more than a million, as the Budget Committee mentioned in the Ministry of Finance's proposal, 15 percent withholding tax, I feel that it is proposed to tax it. Can you imagine the reality of this happening? Well, it's not gonna happen. Nobody's doing this. The state can't control it. So why should we accept such - now that I am not called to order, how should I put it? Such illogicalness when we know we can't check it out. Is it out of luck? Or what would I call it? Guess he's a lucky winner. And that's what the business is based on, that he's happy to win, and he doesn't realize he's gonna lose eventually. Otherwise, the companies wouldn't be making money. So in the end, those who play lose more than they earn. More bets before they get back. Yes, someone can make money on it individually, but we can't tax them. Then I don't know why the proposal is even included in the proposal. And I think it's best to just turn him down. I am at first reading, and I will not repeat it, precisely quoted from the RIA report from the Ministry of Finance of 2015. They have assessed this expertly and have concluded that the tax cannot be enforced, it cannot be managed, it is not effective to implement it without a new analysis being carried out. For example, it would be the other way around with a political assignment. That's just the way it's gonna be. When I ask my colleagues from the YES movement - Madam Secretary, informally, I will not put them on the microphone - why is it so, if they need to be weird, do you know what their answer is? Madam Secretary, do you know what their answer is? Because it's what the secretary wants. That's an argument, isn't it? You're gonna throw away the RIA! All the factual arguments, and you'll understand immediately. Politically, perhaps, certainly not. So, Madam Secretary, my question is, why do you want it? If we can't even count it, or extricate it, or prescribe it? Maybe individually, to give it up, yes. But that's just not how the Financial Administration should work. And I don't want to question the different opinions, but to put so-called against each other. A tough and softer gamble, a sport that my parents' generation has just been betting the same numbers for years, etc., and making them pathological players who are like the same level of people going to the arcade and throwing there - I don't know if there's money being thrown there, I guess there's money throwing there - so I guess that's just not right. And maybe someone puts a round stamp on it, but I think you're able to get an opinion with another round stamp that's not so dangerous. So if we go a bit after a piece of the tax package that aims to increase the revenue of the state budget - the secretary calls it a rate package, and I don't know why, income tax rates don't change, VAT tax rates don't change, VAT rates don't change, yet it's a rate package - so we find that really the only goal is to tax everything. Then I'll get to the draft excise duties. I don't think there's any way I can prove that the Ministry of Finance doesn't really trust the numbers that are painted there to increase the revenue of the state budget. We think they're too optimistic. And the only reason they're so painted, why they're so tall is because of the summer folklore festival where those ministers go to the Treasury Department, and the secretary found 20 billion there this year, somewhere in the Ministry of Finance building, and then the lucky ministers go off to the microphone and say, "I'm very happy." For example, to give peace to the ministers for the YES movement, I remember the Foreign Minister: If I don't get two billion, we can end up with foreign policy. Hello, we have a problem with the secretary, I get $400 million, I'm very happy. - Two hundred, you see. Even less, and he was happy anyway. I call it the Mečiar phenomenon. That's when I only watched politics at home on TV. And I remember Vladimír Mečiar saying, "I have such a negotiating tactic." If I need a hundred, I'll say a thousand. And I have a place to retreat. So that's how I think a serious man... Maybe that's how you negotiate in the background, but for the cameras. Two billion, nothing without it. Do you remember Jan Hamáček? An honored colleague I have a really good relationship with? If they don't get the ministries that run our social democracies, 20 billion, we can't support the government. It's devastating, devastating. The Ministry's gonna stop. Life in the Czech Republic will stop. - And we got 9.5 billion, we're very satisfied. I see a coalition compromise is working. Where was the truth? In the first sentence or in the second? I believe the second sentence was true. I wouldn't give them that much, Madam Secretary. Because if we take words seriously, and I take the words of the Home Secretary seriously, then the state will just end. Because he's still missing 10 billion. That means he wasn't telling the public the truth when he announced that without $20 billion, the budget was completely catastrophic. 20 billion more expenses. The Minister and the Government have 113 billion more for next year than this year. 113 billion! And you know what? It's not enough. Still not enough. And we've already accounted for the increased taxes, and the revenues won't be as high as they're being set up there. Most of all, they're filling the state register with charges. No surprises. It's not the government's fault. Neither this government nor any other government. If we're gonna thank anyone, it's gonna be our employers, our businessmen. Because they're paying you the high fees for their employees. Even the small businessmen who have employees pay their contributions for their employees. They're raising revenue. It is the highest percentage of the state budget revenue increase at least until the end of August, which was the latest issue the Minister publishes. [[16.30 hours]] When I was at City Hall in 2002, I started an excellent collection, I have individual types of taxes there, and I've been doing it for 17 years. So you can quite well estimate the prognosis, because the performance in time is very similar. Of course, if tax changes are forceful, it's different. And really, in the last two years at least, it's a key drawer of increased revenue from the state budget. Not VAT due to EET, not income tax from businessmen because of EET, but because our employers create so many jobs and raise wages, not only in the state sector, but also in the private sector. In my opinion, in the debate that I hold with employers in these weeks and months, we cannot expect an equally strong salary increase next year and, for example, maintenance. equal number of jobs. Yet the number is painted very high again, as if the German economy had not cooled, perhaps stagnating, we will see what the results of the German economy would be for the third quarter. But if they're zero or minus, by economic definition, it'll be stagnation that there'll be two quarters in a row, when the economy is either stagnating or falling. It's like he's not threatening a wild brexit. We as citizens' democrats, and you can remember, have repeatedly called on the Prime Minister and the government as a whole to try to persuade our partners in the EU to be more forthcoming with the UK. We are not pleased with the way British citizens have decided, because we are losing a natural ally in the European Union, who has promoted the rules of the free market with us. I just want to remind you that it was a country that opened up the labour market to us right after we joined the EU, unlike those who are the most euro-optimistic, and they shut down our markets for seven years. But even though we're not happy, we fully respect the decision. And I think that no one can be pleased that five weeks before Great Britain's departure from the European Union has been announced, we do not have an agreement. I'm not saying it's only the Czech government's fault, or the Czech government's, but I think the 27 partners just took advantage of force and failed, for example. as fair a deal as we did with our friends from the Slovak Republic when Czechoslovakia was divided. It wasn't easy either, and I think our predecessors finally made it through those positions and that the agreement contributed to having great relations with the Slovak Republic today. And also, one side could make trouble and make up other and other conditions and push the other side somewhere, and our predecessors did it, and they need to be thanked for it. We take it for granted. It is not a matter of course within Europe that this calmly, orderlyly divides the state and those states continue to work well together. We often forget this when we speak - or many of you, we do not, many of you so contemptuously say: those nineties, that was terrible. Well, it wasn't awful. It wasn't awful, you can't convince us. We're the winners of 1989, and we know it wasn't awful. [[Notes from the O.R.]] I believe you were the winners, too. Or were you communists? You're laughing so much, rapporteur. You don't feel like the winner of 1989 when we drove those communists out of power? Then don't laugh at it. We who don't like these communists feel like winners in 1989, they feel like losers. I understand, it's nothing personal. And today, part of the government and part of the government's politicians are face-to-face with them, that it was almost wrong. How good it was. Well, don't laugh when I say we won 1989 and we feel like the winners of 1989. All of us who didn't support the Communists, I don't mean in part, you misunderstood, so no grins. We have 30 years of freedom this year, and let's not take it. I'm sorry about that, but I'm really, really touchy about that, I have to say. If anyone misses you, there are countries where you can enjoy socialism or communism. We have freedom of travel, so go there, live there and send us postcards if you get a stamp. [[Fun on the right.]] These days, this is a serious issue, a UN summit, or a UN General Assembly. Our Prime Minister did not appear there with a reason that he did not want to make empty promises and that he rather wanted to focus on rational proposals. I have to say, I agree with him. Maybe you were expecting criticism, I agree with him. I think it is in the interests of the Czech Republic to make a reasonable policy of environmental protection. Although many of our political opponents label us completely differently, nature and landscape protection are a natural conservative value and suit each right hand side. And there is certainly a need for sensible action in this area, on the one hand, to ensure the competitiveness of the Czech economy and our businesses, while at the same time improving the environment for our citizens. I think it doesn't rule out that it can be done hand in hand, we just can't take extreme approaches. That's what I think is really wrong. I have prepared one amendment, which I would call part of the green economy, and I do not mean it in any pejorative way, I mean it all right. The Czech Republic is an area of the automotive industry, a power at least European, perhaps worldly. And thanks to the decisions and international commitments that the Czech Republic simply has - we may not like it, we can criticise it, but it is a fact - our carmakers are in danger. And if we do not create a legislative environment in time that could help them - the major change in technology and others must be made by carmakers, but we can at least help it a little, not by direct subsidies, as some European countries do. I'm talking about passenger cars powered by a hybrid or electric motor. I have had statistics or an overview of how our partners in the European Union support the purchase of these vehicles. It's different. The worst approach is - and are such countries - direct subsidies for purchasing a car, either percentage or directly in the amount, in thousands of euros. Another approach is to give tax relief, somewhere it's exemption from road taxes, somewhere from registration tax, each has a little different. In the meantime, we canceled the motorway stamp, 1,500 crowns a year will save electric car owners. I don't think it's very motivating. I don't know if you all know this, but I won't include you with numbers, but I have them at my disposal if you want them, from our car industry. If our car companies are not selling a certain number of electric cars in 11 years, they will be penalized for each other produced car. They will be penalized by a small amount and will have a competitive disadvantage. And that's already done, that's decided, that's not gonna change. If I say this completely pragmatically, Germany has already decided. And you know, not only how many automakers, but how many engineering companies supply for the automotive industry, and not only for Czech automakers, virtually. automakers manufacturing in the Czech Republic, to be exact, but also especially for the automotive industry in Germany. And I come on behalf of our Civic Democrat Club with three proposals that are not radical enough to help. According to statistics that I have from public sources, less than a thousand electric cars are sold annually in the Czech Republic, hundreds of them. That is far from enough to meet the goals we are committed to. We didn't decide on our own or on our own. After the debate with the experts we got a number that you roughly need one charging station for ten electric cars. The only way to solve this problem, a realistic chance, is not to think about how I will come from Ostrava by electric car through Brno to Prague after D1, but how to increase the motivation of companies to buy electric cars. We see two main limiting factors - cost and insufficient infrastructure. I think the realistic idea of where this segment can be created and where it can be strengthened is that it might be the second car in the family, that it'll be the car you'll be commuting to work with, and while you're working, you can recharge your car at the charging station at the company, and you can leave. It's not like you're going 500 km or 360 - I see Mr. Governor here, we're from the same county. We're not driving an electric car on D1, we're taking a train, right, but that's a realistic approach. And I suggest, Madam Secretary, on behalf of our club, three changes to the Income Tax Act. The first is to convert electric cars, respectively. passenger vehicles with a motor powered... with a hybrid electric vehicle from the second to the first depreciation group, that means shortening depreciation from five to three years. [[unintelligible]] The second proposal is to shorten the depreciation period for charging stations to 10 years. And the third is... Today, when an employer provides an employee with a company vehicle for private purposes under contract, the employee pays every month, for every month he uses the service, 1 per cent of the purchase price as income, and this applies as income tax or dependent activity tax, to be exact. I'm suggesting, on behalf of our club, that we lower it in electric cars to 0.5 percent. [[16.40 hours]] By the way, this measure has been approved by the Bundestag in recent weeks. Neighbors in Germany also had 1 %, and with hybrids and electric cars it's zero. Why are we suggesting that? I think it often motivates high-quality employees, managers. And if he pays 1 percent of the 400,000 for Octavia or 800,000 for an electric car, what's he gonna choose? I think he'll logically choose the first one. If the tax charge is the same, then we can motivate employers to help meet the objectives facing our car companies. I believe that these proposals can be supported, that they are realistic exactly in the spirit of what the Prime Minister said, they are not revolutionary, they are not subsidies. It's just an increase in motivation. If I write the car off from five to three years, it can only help investment activity. It will depend on the entrepreneurs, employers, but also the public administration whether they take advantage of the chance or not. It is undoubtedly right to use these types of vehicles in public transport, but this is not enough to meet those objectives either. So this is the amendment that is set out in the House document under number 3460, and I am officially applying to it at this point. Perhaps even Mr Juříček will then get an electric car if he is properly motivated ecologically. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Pikal: Please address the other Members through me.]] Vice-President, I didn't address anyone. I used the sentence in the Czech language. Maybe the MP will buy something. Can you tell me where the address is in this sentence? [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. It's not.]] Thank you. Mr Vice-President, by your means, thank you. [[Easy entertainment in the hall.]] I think we need to demand precision and rigor. Let's be strict with Mr. Vice President, he's been there for almost two years. If he was there for two days, I'd swallow it, my reminder. I am trying to help with these proposals, or we are trying to help with these proposals to our industry. I say, we didn't decide. And perhaps even the Member knows this from his practice. This seems to us to be a reasonable proposal to motivate companies and employers to take this type of vehicle. Because if the infrastructure isn't, if it's more expensive, then who's gonna pay for it? Our businesses. I'm telling you, Germany's made up its mind. Germany will pay for it. I assume you've noticed their climate package, EUR 50 billion for three years? I think they approved it this week that there was a press conference. Madam Secretary, imagine 50 billion, and they have a surplus budget. Really. Over-the-counter budget. And we don't. We can't do that, and we don't put anything in there, which is good. [[A note from the diaper.]] We have surplus budgets because those mayors who have too much pay, well, that's what counts for the budgets, and that's how they make the balance. [[Nesroz.]] That's right, and that's good. And the government and the county are contributing to the positive in public finances. They're the same, which means excellent, unlike the state. That's just the truth. But I'm not criticizing public finances as a whole, but the part that belongs to the state that we represent, because the upper chamber doesn't approve of the budget, only the lower chamber. We just can't do it there. And I think if we tried a little bit, we could do it. That's a bit of a turn-off. If the 40-billion-dollar budget - the deficit, I'm sorry, the deficit, as proposed, had a structure that wouldn't go to transport, but 120 billion, we would support it, because it's an investment, it's an amount, or an area in which I can imagine that the state is investing in the future, and that's why it's in deficit in that particular year. I've already told you on the budget committee or at first reading: take your time, try to talk to the heads of the major investor organizations. According to my information, you got a letter from the Department of Transport saying they took the courage, eventually sent it to you, and they want extra money because... How many events do you think will start next year, new events on the roads and motorways according to the draft budget that will come to the Chamber of Deputies within five days? I know the number, it's not hard. Zero! Neither new action will begin. So if any of you are looking forward to building a new building in your county, it won't start if we don't do something about the budget. And now I see how our designs end. I'm a realist. So it will even be difficult to maintain funding for already negotiated actions. So we've turned a little bit towards that, so we're here informally debating the deficit with the secretary. Unfortunately, it's not there, but let's save that for the state budget debate. So the amendment, and here I really ask the Minister and the members of the government coalition to assess this politically but factually, it is consulted with people who work in the automotive industry. I think it has their support. I heard a statement from the Ministry of Industry against it. I don't understand why he's against it. Either we do nothing about it, that would be wrong. The subsidies - we agree - are the worse way, it seems to me the thing that can. [[Nesroz.]] In two years, we can go back to this and see if it had the incentive effect and, in some way, the number of passenger cars sold with a hybrid or electric motor started to increase or not. Of course, I don't know if it'll lead to the higher motivation. But it could help with incentive depreciation to eliminate the limiting factor of high entry price and the incentive to build charging stations, the factor of insufficient infrastructure to recharge. And we need that infrastructure in cities, we need it in businesses, we don't need it around highways. We also don't know how we'd get the necessary power on that highway. So I would ask you not to take this politically, but in a matter of fact. And I believe that this proposal has a chance, because it helps the automotive industry and its suppliers in particular. And it's not such an unusual measure. As I said, he was accepted in Germany, and I'm not going to name all the countries here, but some countries are shorter write-offs than those three years. I would have thought the best two years as a depreciation period, but it's difficult to introduce a new depreciation category, which I think is better to use the existing ones, just by one switch, five or three not so much, but it could increase motivation. I will now comment on my second amendment, which is in House document number 3459 and concerns tobacco taxation. We have long held that it is good to have multiannual tax plans in the area of this excise tax so that the sector and the market can prepare for this and that it can also be predicted in a solid way of income in the state budget. If I simplify it and round it a little bit, this proposal only deals with 2020 and around 12 crowns per box with the fact that it should apply from 1 March next year, and to that is calculated some revenue from the state budget, which I think is too optimistic. [[What's ……]] But I don't want to argue about that. Today there is a big difference between the price of the box in Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. If it goes through a jump raise, I think that the difference will rise and consumers, customers, behave economically, and if they have it five kilometers somewhere where the box is a little cheaper, then the cost of the purchase is still advantageous. On the other hand, it is true what the Minister says in his explanatory report that in 2018, it is a partly harmonised tax, the Czech Republic has ceased to fulfil its obligations, or the parameters that stand before it in that harmonised tax, and the increase must be made. Our proposal, Madam Secretary, is, in our opinion, a better option, addresses the next four years, not just 2020. The proposed effectiveness is from 1 February, not from 1 March. This price increase, the first year is slightly lower, about 9.70 or 9.80, which means if I round it up, 10 crowns against 12 plus the next years add 5, 4, 4 crowns. I think it is realistic that it increases the contribution to the state budget in a predictable way, reduces the risk of a market failure in the bordering of the major overlaps and purchases across borders, and at the same time increases the price of the box, so it can also have a deterrent effect, which government ministers often talk about. [[16.50 hours]] So we're not proposing status quo, we're not suggesting any symbolic increase. We think that this is a proposal for debate and support, that it is good for the market, for eliminating the risk of smuggled cigarettes, cross-border purchases, and thus reducing revenue, and I believe that estimates of that yield are relatively accurate. Of course, the Ministry of Finance has the most accurate estimates, I don't dispute that, but the opposition simply doesn't have such a professional apparatus. But in simple terms, it's 9, 5, 4, 4, i.e. for 2020 it is 9 crowns per box against the current state or 10 crowns, for 2021 15 crowns per box, when I add it up, for 2022 19 crowns and for 2023 it is already 23 crowns per box. So in my opinion, it's palpable, but it's jumping and predictable. I believe that you will again respond pragmatically to this proposal and that we will have a debate on this. It is not the protection of the tobacco lobby, it is rather a proposal aimed at the stability of the revenue of this excise duty to the state budget. And I think I'm gonna say some of that gambling. It's harmful, I don't think anyone's questioning it, we have a very strict anti-smoking law, but it's legal. And when it's legal and it's legal in the countries around us, we have to make rules so that those taxes end up in our budget and don't end up in the budget of neighbouring countries to reduce the risk of the cigarette smuggling at the same time. I read in professional states that the percentage of cigarettes smuggled, or illegal, unkolked, is collected by collecting empty boxes. [[The secretary has a note off the microphone from the newsstand table.]] I know they're doing it, but I can't imagine how they're really doing the job. I certainly wouldn't want to do it, and I don't know how many boxes they collect and how they identify the percentage. However, it is a number with which all countries work. It's some kind of method that works, which is in place. I do not know now, Mr Vice-President, if I have said so, but I will apply to House document 3459, which contains this amendment, just in case. Colleagues have been talking about the boiler rooms. If the House confirms the recommendations of the Committee on Budgets, that's settled. The budget committee - I don't know if anyone said that on the microphone today - was there 21, 20 members of the budget committee supported it. These were representatives of all the political parties, so I assume that the problem is solved, that we will hold that opinion on plenary, and we do not have to go back and convince each other in the debate. We've all convinced each other that it's not a reasonable idea. We haven't yet convinced ourselves that it's a reasonable idea to increase the cadastre fee by 100 percent. We consider it unsustainable, wrong, wrong, and we will try to convince you not to. We did not make the amendment because one of our colleagues made it, so I say again that we will not sub. My colleagues have presented a number of amendments, and some will also sign up to them, which introduce things that are not there as a missed opportunity in the tax package. And I would like a few sentences and a few minutes to consider the inflation and the rising average wages. Madam Secretary knows this, but as Secretary Maláčová said, she's already here, I commend her, I underline her morning sentence - repetition is the mother of wisdom, so I'll repeat it. When the government wants to increase the excise duty on alcohol, it uses, in addition to the harmfulness, the argument that it has not been lifted for a long time, that inflation has been over the years, that the average wage has been rising. Which is all true, inflation was, average wage was rising, so the relatively bottle of alcohol is a percentage lower than it was years ago - cheaper, therefore more affordable. Therefore, it needs to be answered. When colleagues, Mr Skopeček and Mr Ferjenčík, made the same argument last time, I think each and every one of them had the same idea today, but I don't want to put any of them first, they used the same argument on the basic deductible item, so suddenly it doesn't apply. There was probably no inflation, no wage increases, so there is no need to increase the basic deductible item. And this is a measure that goes against those lower income groups, because it's relatively more important for them to increase the basic deductible item. It really helps them to notice. The highest income groups probably won't notice if they're six thousand down, but the low-income groups will notice. The left-wing government is against it. I don't fully understand, but he denies his arguments. Either the inflation and the average wage have been rising, and both are true, I will use it to raise taxes, but not to increase the deductible item anymore. And the explanation is simple. She's not a cheap thing. If we say it honestly, my colleagues counted it, that's not the amount in units of billions. But if the Minister so often and very much likes to use the word fair tax - we could do that sometimes a seminar on what a fair tax is - so raising the excise tax is fair because you have more money, but raising the basic item is unfair because you could have even more money. I really don't understand. It is clear here that the argument is limping. If the excise tax argument is "we want more money," it's true, it's hard to find an argument against it, the proposal goes to the state to get more money. And when supporting arguments of the type of inflation and rising average wage are used for this, it comes across a comparison with other items. Once again, we submit to you for the vote and for the decision a proposal to increase the mandatory threshold for VAT registration. There's no news, we're not gonna leave you alone until we've established it. I can already hear the counterargument - we have to negotiate this in Brussels. That's right, so deal with it. We'll support you in this. Our MEPs will support you in this. We are ready to adopt a strong resolution by the Chamber of Deputies - we support our government, we want you to give us the exception because we know best what the minimum limit for mandatory VAT registration should be. And there are countries where they have it in a comparable amount, where they have it negotiated, we wouldn't be the first within the twenty-seven, if not the twenty-eight, who would negotiate it. So if we sum it up. I want to commend the government for calling this law the right way. I'd like to rename it a little bit more, I'd say it's about raising taxes, but it's also clear enough in order to increase income, anyone who understands Czech will understand that it's about raising taxes. I want to commend the government for that because it doesn't hide it and disguise it with other names. And I mean that without irony. I have already said in the first debate, at first reading, that if this were about the regulation of real estate tax, I would also commend the government and the Minister in this area, these are sensible proposals that we will certainly support. So if you want to support the opposition, then the solution isn't too complicated. Just throw away the senseless taxation of insurance companies, reasonably agree on excise duty on tobacco, reasonably agree on gambling rates, throw out the senseless design of winning tax, we've already thrown out the boiler room, that's behind us, abandoning the idea of increasing the charge to the cadastral office from thousands to 2,000 crowns, and you have 170 votes in the Chamber of Deputies and almost sure that the Senate will not return it or refuse it. It's not that complicated, it won't hurt. Just a little political will. The political will to compromise and it can pass very smoothly at the effective date. If that is not the case, then we will still have to fight for individual paragraphs and individual rates, and to continue with the title chosen by the Minister, we will fight for rates in the rate package. Thank you for your attention, I am very sorry, I had much less to say - much more, I am sorry, much more, but because I am surprisingly acting in the afternoon, so I have to go to other meetings in the Chamber of Deputies, so maybe we will get back to that in more detail at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u29	Thank you too, thank you for the two proposals. There are two factual points. As the first Mrs Langšádlová to sign up electronically, then Mr Juříček, who applied from his seat. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I was very pleased to hear again the excellent speech by my fellow President of the ODS Club. And I'm serious about this. Zbyněk Stanjura is known for his analytical thinking, logical thinking and it is a pleasure to listen to him. But all the more so - we are in a detailed debate on the tax package. But I don't know where the Brexit came from. And with a look like that that has absolutely nothing to do with analysts and logic. It was said here, we broke up with the Slovak Republic, I guess we're not proud of that. But how it happened with great respect. And now the European Union, well, she just doesn't want to break up this nicely. Why doesn't she want to break up as nicely as we do? Why aren't they doing so well? It's the same situation, by analogy! No, it isn't, colleague! There is another situation in that, in short, there will probably be two customs and trade regimes, and therefore it is difficult to guarantee that there will simply be no border. In this situation, it is indeed necessary to defend the Member State of Ireland, because the European Union is based on solidarity. You know, your attitude is that - we are actually a little pro-European, but we will not miss any opportunity to kick the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u31	Thank you for keeping time. This comment responded to the previous debate. Before I invite another speaker, President Stanjura came forward electronically. Electronic applications have priority under the House's resolution, Mr. MP. [[Jurassic]] Anyway, I'm going to introduce you to the apologies that have so far piled up here. So I understand that Mr. Juříček takes precedence, but before that, he received a note. [[by Mr Stanjura]] We are sorry, Mrs Nevludová, from 17 a.m. to the end of the day. Mr Španěl apologizes between 17.30 and 23.45 due to the hearing. Mrs Kozlová apologizes between 4:30 and 19:00. Mr Staněk apologizes between 17 and 21 for family reasons. Mr Hrnčíř apologizes between 17.30 and 19.00 for the sake of the hearing, and Vice-President Okamura apologizes between 17.30 and the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Svoboda apologizes from 17 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. She apologizes to Mrs Levová from 17.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr. Juříček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura is partly right through the President. But as it sometimes is, because he is not a technician, he is an IT player, and today he is more of an economist and a politician, so he does not know some of the context. I've talked about them here a few times. And I'm definitely not buying an electric car because I'm being environmentally friendly right now. However, I'm not saying that electric cars have no future. Maybe just a partial because they have their limitations. So what we need to see is that especially in the lithiumion molecule and the state-of-the-art magnetic batteries, there's 24 times less energy than in the diesel molecule. And assuming we accept the latest lab results from German labs that say EURO6 with AdBlue has NOXs zero and 80 grams of CO2 max., then we'll act ecologically if we drive diesel. Electromobility has a number of different disadvantages, because e.g. Needs seven times more power to make the electric car itself. No one knows what we're gonna do with those carcinogenic elements in those batteries, which is mainly strontium, cadmium. And I just wanted to add that, because since my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura here has already approached me through the President, so that we should say not to the half-truths, but to tell each other the truth. And what he says in terms of the possibility of, say, supporting the Czech Republic or the government for those three years. [[Time warning]] Three years of auto write-off for ten years of extended station depreciation, I know, of course, what workshop it exists from -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u33	Ambassador, you're out of time. I'm afraid I have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u34	Thank you. However, it has no link to the state budget now. [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u35	Now President Stanjura with a point of fact, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u36	I preferred Mr Juříček because I knew I would respond to him. I think we got the wrong idea. I actually agree with what Mr Juříček said, apart from comments on my amendments. I'm not a fan of electromobility. I'm just describing reality. It's been decided. We will not decide for ourselves in the Czech Republic how many our carmakers must sell. That's true, too. That's what we have to say. And I said that Germany had already made up its mind. So either we pretend to have it in our hands, and we don't live in the real world, and then our businesses will be penalized or not. I agree that this has an impact on the state budget. But I don't know state aid without impacting the state budget. Only as a commendation before the enlisted unit or a photo with the Prime Minister on the album. But that doesn't help accomplishing those goals. Madame Langšádlová. I'm brexit when I assessed the government's proposal to raise taxes to make a budget with a deficit of 40 billion. [[Nesroz.]] That if they don't raise, they won't. And I said that, in my opinion, risks are not taken into account in the draft budget, in this case, not national, but European, and that is a cooling economy and the risk of wild brexit with an impact on the European, but also the Czech economy and with a risk of reduced income. And then I didn't forgive myself for commenting, and that's not an analysis, that was a commentary on how I evaluate negotiations with the 27-year-olds with the Great Britain. He may have a different view of it, but I insist on commenting on it. That wasn't an analysis, that was a comment. But the essence of that comment was that according to my draft state budget, it does not take into account possible risks outside the Czech Republic, to be honest. That's how I got to it in my performance. And I have also said openly that I have been debating this with representatives of the automotive industry, Mr Juříček, through the Vice-President. I think that's legitimate if I'm debating them. They introduced me to the proposals, we thought they were nice, we were debating for two months. [[Nesroz.]] [[Attention on time.]] We have decided to make those amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u37	Thank you and now Mr Ferjenčík, then Mrs Langšádlová. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask briefly in response to my colleague Juříček if it would not be better for the YES movement to fulfil its electoral pledge instead of raising taxes and deliver the 2,000 billion crowns of lithium for our people. Because you had it on your billboards, you promised 2,000 billion of lithium for our people, and instead of getting even one billion of lithium, you're raising taxes here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u39	Thank you, and now, please, Mrs Langšádlová, with a point of fact, which is the last one at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u40	I've only been for a very short time. Even in that comment, the analogy doesn't really match, the situation is different. We should be glad that the European Union is defending small countries such as Ireland, because we too belong to medium-sized countries. And it is proof that the EU is not only defending the largest, but indeed the small and medium-sized countries. And the electromobility. Let me just make a quick point. The European Union is not talking about any electric cars anywhere. There are only reductions in emissions for the entire fleet, there is no question that the EU is saying how many electric cars it has or does not have which car manufacturer to produce. What's the goal of this, it's really up to her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u41	Thank you and we will now return to the detailed debate, and I am asking Mr Luzar, who is signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. After a long debate explaining many things political, economic, but also international, we are getting to the heart of the matter. I'm just gonna take one small point to the regret that this budget of ours, if that's what it is. tax package, does not take into account the risks of brexit. But when I hear it from the Eurosceptic party, it should say that, on the contrary, the revenue side of our budget does not respond optimistically to brexit, because it is a challenge for those states that leave the European Union to seize the economic advantage of such self-reliantness. But I took the liberty of taking a little tour on the other side. Let me now sign up for the House documents, the 509, which we are discussing today. I have tabled four amendments, but I will only apply to three of them, namely 3437, 3455 and 3439. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u43	Thank you, too. Just for the record, the proposals, I suppose, were justified in the general debate. [[Noise in the hall.]] Yes, thank you. And now, please Mr Skopeček, who is next in the debate, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. And I'm gonna ask my colleagues for some peace in the room. We're getting noise levels. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u44	Thank you very much. I have been performing longer in the general debate, so now only briefly. I will take the liberty of signing up for three amendments. First, under number 3411, these are, as I said in the general debate, the attempt to free the language courses for children from VAT and the attempt to free the tests followed by those language courses in general. 3412 is another amendment that I am referring to, this is the basic tax discount, and I have also discussed this in the general debate. And the last amendment that I am proposing through this speech is the proposal put under number 3458, a proposal for a lower rate of alcohol tax than the government proposed in the original proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u45	I also thank Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Martínek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I am applying to the following amendments. First of all, I confirm that I, together with my colleague Kovářová and colleague Bartošek, submit a proposal to maintain the existing fee for the deposit in the land register on thousands of crowns. I also apply to the draft budget committee, of course it is not necessary, just to point out why I am not submitting this proposal further, because the budget committee has supported the maintenance of the gas exemption, so for this reason I am no longer loading this proposal for the second time. Furthermore, I am reading proposals 3446, which is an increase in the discount on the taxpayer to CZK 30,000, as well as a compromise proposal on this same issue, namely Amendment 3456, which raises the discount on the taxpayer to CZK 27,000. As I said, if the government increases taxes on consumption, it should reduce labour taxation adequately. These two proposals are aimed at this, which would leave all taxpayers with CZK 5, or CZK 2,000 a year in their wallets. I also apply to draft number 3448, which maintains the taxation of gambling at the current level, so that we do not close the scissors between the hardest gambling, that is, slot machines, and, for example, exchange rate bets or poker. I'm also applying to draft number 3445, that's the cancellation of the entire package that concerns insurance companies. The measure is simply poorly technically processed and in fact punishes those responsible insurance companies and increases the flow of capital from the Czech Republic. I also apply to the amendment under number 3442, which is the abolition of income tax exemptions in the case of securities sales above CZK 20 million per year. I see no reason for this tax exemption when we pay from work, including taxes, about 45 percent, why we would sell securities over 20 million, why it should not be taxed at all in the event of a time test. And the last amendment I am proposing is under number 3441, namely the distribution of the increase in excise duty on cigarettes to two stages, one from January, one from July, to run in parallel with Poland, where they will raise excise duty in July, and there has been no exit from customers to Poland or Slovakia. Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u47	Thank you, too. I'll introduce you to a note. I apologise to us, Mr Poezný, today from 5:30 p.m. for working reasons until the end of the negotiations. And Mr Martínek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore want to sign up, as I have declared in the general debate, to several amendments. First, it is the abolition of the change in the exemption of winnings due to the lack of a sufficient study of the effects of the change and, at the same time, de facto, the proposal against its original RIA of 2015. This amendment, as House document 3342, which I am referring to, would, of course, be put to the vote only if, therefore, no rationalization of the original government proposal is adopted, which is what some amendments are trying to do. I hope that happens. If not, that is why I am proposing this amendment. In addition, I present further adjustments to this exemption of winnings, which are about to improve the current government proposal. Specifically, it is the taxation of net wins under House document 3343. Furthermore, the change in taxation only amounts to more than CZK 100,000, House document 3425. Further increase in the limit as House document 3347. In addition, as I said in the general debate, I refer to House document 3345, which concerns the abolition of paragraph 59. Furthermore, it is a modification of the rates of live games, or card games played against the opponent, meaning, for example, poker, which are under the House document 3427 and 3462. The abolition of paragraph 59 is House document 3345. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u49	I also thank and please Mr Munzar, Mrs Langšádlová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u50	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already performed here in the general debate, which is why I will be very brief. Allow me to sign up for the amendment that is conducted in the system under the heading number 3374, it is the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax, and our aim is to immediately reduce the cost of acquiring ownership housing, which has been increasing in recent years. The second amendment is under the designation 3372, it is a proposal to increase the VAT registration limit to CZK 2 million, and the aim is to de facto reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs, in the last 15 years this level has not been raised. To that end, I promised you in the general debate that I will read - and unfortunately I must read - the accompanying resolution, which reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to apply, in the light of Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax, and in particular Article 395 (1) thereof, until the end of 2019, for authorisation to introduce a special measure derogating from Article 287 of Directive 2006/112/EC allowing the Czech Republic to exempt from value added tax a taxable person whose annual turnover is not more than CZK 2 million.' That would be an accompanying resolution. I will return to the amendments. The third amendment is conducted in the system under the heading number 3373, it is a proposal to extend the deadline for the submission of a corrective control report from 5 to 15 days. Our goal is a more formal business environment, especially for small entrepreneurs and small businesses. Another amendment is made under the heading number 3343; it is a proposal which amends the submission of the real estate tax return. De facto, the proposal allows natural persons not to submit real estate tax returns, and the tax would then be calculated from the data that the State has already available today. The next proposal is under the designation 3344. It is a cancellation of an increase of administrative charges type proposal for a deposit and so on. I have also said the reasons for this proposal in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u51	I also thank you for these proposals. Madame Langšádlová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u52	Thank you for the floor. I will briefly sign up for the amendments tabled by my colleague Kalousek under No. 3407, which is the removal of a super gross wage. We know that this already contained a single collection point law. Before the entry into force of this proposal, it was repealed in 2013. [[Law]] And it is also part of the government's programming statement, so I believe that this proposal will receive support. And the next proposal is under No. 3408. This is a proposal that would go against the taxation of the technical provisions of insurance companies. Why do we think that this is a bad step, this has also been said here by our colleagues, so I will no longer justify it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u53	Yes, thank you. They were all logged in to the debate. If no one else is reporting for a detailed debate, I am ending this debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words from the plaintiff or the rapporteur? I ask the rapporteur for the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u54	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, really just a brief recap of what happened today. So we have a motion to dismiss Mr Kalousek - the zákon at third reading if we vote at third reading. Then we have two proposals for an accompanying resolution, they have been tabled here. He is Mr. Holomčík of the Pirates and Mr. Munzar. Otherwise, all Members have presented their amendments, they have signed up to them. I am not quite sure, because Mr Stanjura has been lecturing two amendments, but he has explicitly applied numerically to one, I suppose the legislation will deal with it. [[Voices from the O.R.]] Twice to one - 3459. But I suppose by saying the contents, it's also 3460. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u55	So I'm gonna ask the legislation for a short consultation, or we're gonna take a minute to clear this up. [[The rapporteur's legislative meeting is under way.]] Please, rapporteur, if we have any conclusions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u56	It's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-25-ps2017-034-06-014-031.u57	Everything's fine, the designs are loaded. Okay, thank you. It was all right, in which case I'll introduce you to a note. He apologizes to us for working reasons, Mrs Procházková between 17.30 and 22.45. I believe that there have been no proposals that we should vote on at the moment, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal and moving forward. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the appellant. And now we're going to go back to the interrupted point.
