ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u1	Thank you. Mr Výborný withdrew the request for a factual comment, so I will ask Mr Skopeček to speak. And Mrs Richterová will be ready. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please. And it's midnight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u2	Good new day to you, good morning. I made three comments on the speech by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs when one could go crazy on every meaningless sentence she uttered here. Family support. It was said here that the previous governments did nothing. It's a lie, Madam Secretary. While you're at the resort, find out what was going on in the previous years and in your predecessors. The ODS also supported and voted many times to increase tax discounts for children, repeatedly. This is a very important support for families. I personally proposed in the previous parliamentary term - unfortunately, the Labour Code, or, thankfully, when the Social Democrats wrote it, did not discuss it - but I proposed more motivation for the short-time work. This would also help families greatly. But you just live locked in the word dose. You say another word, you don't know any other tool in social policy than a dose, so we just have to get used to talking about benefits. And that nickname in the form of a gag, I think it's quite fitting. You're wrong about minimum wage. It is not true that there is a centrally established minimum wage in the world. There are many economies that do not have a minimum wage at all. They even have lower unemployment on average than in countries where the minimum wage is. And in a number of countries where minimum wage is, the minimum wage varies according to the industry, for example. This means that in the automotive industry, which is currently in progress, the minimum wage may be higher, in the textile industry, which may be in crisis at that time, the minimum wage may be lower. The union always negotiates about it in that sector. So it's not true that we're the only ones, or that there aren't countries that don't have minimum wages. And otherwise, I wanted to thank you in the end, and I mean it quite honestly. I wanted to thank you for promising that after six years of social democracy in charge of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, you might come up with your proposal in September. Those six years are quite cosmic speed. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And I think that... Okay, well, I'm gonna turn myself in one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u3	Please, let's keep that time. There's a lot of applications. It's after midnight. So, please, Mrs Richterová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Ivan Bartoš, President of the Pirates. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government present, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I find it a pity that - perhaps this is also the outfit - you, Madam Secretary, are so combative through the President today. Because I think you're really hitting the wrong places. Indeed, it is not our fault that we do not attend your meetings when you regularly convene them at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. That was really wrong. And I would also like to point out that once the deadlines are upfront, perhaps the pirát have 100% participation in the Board of Pensions. Apart from the fact that we have the constructive proposals you've noticed, we're happy for that. Furthermore, if you complain about the criticism of your proposal to review benefits, it is again a struggle for something that has been prepared in the Ministry's drawer for many years, it returns as ghosts come back from closets and come back to life. And something that needs to be scared again. I hope we scare it off again, because it looks like a solution, it's not a solution. You received ten crucial comments from the pirát through me. I'm sorry you're taking this personally, but it's a substantive debate that needs to be dealt with. One last thing - available housing. Do you really work intensively with local development in this department of yours? Cooperation, social work, support for people in housing between MMR and MPSV. How's it going? I'd really like to know. Your fighting is not appropriate, through Mr President of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u5	Thank you. And now Chairman of Pirates Ivan Bartoš. Ambassador, your two minutes. And Mr. Jan Bauer will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u6	I would also like to respond briefly to some of the sentences that have been spoken by the Minister. I was needed in those first negotiations when this government was not yet YES and ČSSD, when the topic of available housing, for example, was dealt with. We used to go to round tables at MMR. There was a participation in the MPSV. The MPSV was then separated from it, the investment plan Construction was created. And I have not since noticed that this investment plan, where municipalities are to draw money, would be accompanied by any related initiative from the MPSV. At the same time, it is absolutely crucial for affordable housing that we do not build other ghettos or excluded localities for heavy money. But the opposition always sounds, so sometimes it sounds like the pirát are involved. I do not think that having a social name like my social democracy gives her a patent on dealing with social policy. If you saw the Pirates' program for the election, we had strong social issues from families to excluded housing locations and we're very focused on them. And I'd just like to say one example, because these things are coming together here. And we don't have the Ministry's apparatus, the sea of officials who prepare legislation. We have some resources for mandates and we have our experts, and yet we always try to be partners with ministries in this quality preparation. And I think we've been preparing the portal since last year, because that's the most questions we can get as a mommy the money where to ask, so we've prepared the socialnissystem portal.pirati.cz On which we took into account all the possibilities. We advise people how, if they need to get some money to proceed in a difficult life situation, such as, unfortunately, parenting in the Czech Republic. And the day we launched this portal, the reaction from the Ministry was - Jesus, we're launching it. There's also a deadline posted on the web, so I believe that the term, which is now supposed to be, that the Ministry will launch the portal, will be respected. If this isn't just PR.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u7	I want to ask you all again to keep time. You know we have a lot of applications, and it's past midnight. Mr Bauer, your two minutes and Mrs Radka Maxová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u8	Thank you. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs, I know you're not a Member, but I've only observed the effect over the years in the Chamber of Deputies that when someone speaks wisely, cleverly, perhaps sometimes funny, the House is just calm and colleagues can listen. On the other hand, I have observed that when someone speaks foolishly, perhaps even rudely or insidiously, the House is raging. And I must say to your disapproval that until you joined the House, there was relative peace here. And I would like to say that I am sorry that the materials, the housing benefits, have escaped. And it has already been said here, but unfortunately, they have not yet escaped to me as Vice-President of the Social Committee. So I just wanted to ask you through the President if they could escape to me. I feel like other members of the Social Committee don't have them either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u9	That was Mr. Bauer. I will now ask Mrs Radka Maxová to speak and Mr Aleš Juchelka will prepare himself. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond as chairman of the Social Policy Committee. It's been mentioned here maybe three or four times. I would like to turn against the fact that Members do not come to you called round tables, because you really call them at a time when they cannot. And for them, of course, priority is participation in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. All of us members of the Social Policy Committee have called twice, if not three times, for you to consider the dates of round tables, various seminars, so that we can participate. And the committee also called on you the last time you called this round table to review benefits or a round table for social services. It's also not true that the past government and the Treasury aren't devoted to families. Children's groups agreed, tax discounts have increased several times, kindergartens have been introduced, VAT has decreased to children's products. So don't tell me you're the only one fighting for families. Just a note. You're in the role of family advocate. But if I remember correctly, you didn't get much of a family concept in the last term because it didn't even make it to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u11	I will now ask Mr Aleš Juchelka to speak and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will prepare himself. We're still in factual notes. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Maxová has said a lot of things. It's just a sip before I get to the point. When it bothers the Chamber of Deputies and the plenary to address Verunka, or that someone is young, then to call the Minister that she is stupid, I think that Mrs Černochová, through Mr President, is a little over the line. So I think you should apologize a little bit to the secretary. [[A round of applause for a part of the Members on the left.]] And as for the ongoing pension system, we have to say the other thing, of course. Because we can't do without the next generation. This means that if we want to maintain an ongoing pension system, we must have those people who will simply finance it for the future. That means supporting families with children. At this point, we have 1.67 babies per mother. We need 2.1 children to maintain some demographic growth in the Czech Republic. To defend it, it does not reach any state in the EU at all. It's the closest thing to France is a 1.7 child. And that means we should support families with two or three children. And at this point, we know that, of course, the third child's economy is breaking, we need a bigger car, we need a bigger apartment, we just don't fit three seats in the back of the car, we need a bigger car, and so on. I think that in general support for family policy for families with more children should play perhaps also in the national concept of family policy really primam. And I think it's the absolute basis for us to keep, if we want it under the pension system, the ongoing system, but most of all, we just need kids. We need kids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u13	I also thank Mr Juchelek for his time. So now I call on Mr Vít Kaňkovský to take action and to prepare Mr Jan Bartošek. So please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u14	Mr President, dear colleagues, good morning. I can't help but respond to Minister Maláčová. Madam Secretary Maláčová may know that she may not know that I have defended her here in a number of respects in the past. Unfortunately, after the show that took place here in the final discussion of the financing of social services, I had to reconsider this position. I'm not saying it's forever, but the gig that the secretary had here today is calling me to be very vigilant again. I understand, Madam Secretary, that you're defending your party, that's perfectly fine. That you're defending your resort, that's perfectly okay, too. But what you did here was a measure of arrogance, insolence, half lies, half truth, it's just not done. Yes, social democracy, of course, has a lot of merit in social policy. You mentioned a parent here, but she hasn't reached the finals yet. You mentioned the care allowance, yes, social democracy has its merit in abolishing the Karenary period. But funding social services is one big mess. And what you mentioned here about family politics - you can't be serious! You swept the code of work prepared by your officers under the table. At this point, there is no amendment to the Labour Code. Flexible times? What did you do for them? So, Madam Secretary, don't be mad, brag about what's worth bragging about, but don't use this mix of populism and whatever disgusting stuff we've heard here today. I'm sorry, but I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u15	Mr Jan Bartošek will speak with a point of fact and Mrs Pekarová will be prepared. All right, Congressman, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It's the words of a classic: "You're not doing well with the matches, Jaromír." Madam Secretary, you know, that's exactly the behavior you've shown, that's the kind of behavior that burys social democracy and leads it into oblivion. The amount of arrogance, the disdain and the inability to see things in context is exactly what hurts social democracy the most. And what do I want to compliment you on? You're a great coalition partner worthy of admiration. We're dealing with a conflict of interest between the Prime Minister and social democracy, and the boobs turn off the attack that goes on the Prime Minister, and he says, "We're a coalition partner, we're gonna protect him!" And it all turns against social democracy. Where's the Prime Minister, where's the YES movement? Nowhere! Here, yes, I can see you, I can see you. Nowhere! They're all going to social democracy. Great job, really, as a coalition partner, priceless. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] And it should be said that - how does it look in practice? Well, everything you said here, what you did, you sold Andrej Babiš. All you have left is shame. You had the opportunity to remain silent and leave with honor. You spoke, and you harvested this. And I think it's done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u17	Another with the factual remark of Mrs Pekarová and the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Madam, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, and gentlemen, I actually wanted to say similar words to my previous speaker. The reason why we convened today's meeting as opposition, today's extraordinary meeting to voice distrust to the government, is particularly an enormous conflict of interest for Andrej Babiš. That's forgotten now, because there's a defil going on here at the moment, there's an argument about parental contribution, pensions and other social benefits, and actually the conflict of interest is forgotten. Andrej Babiš, maybe he's not here, so I guess he's warm in his office, 'cause it's really hotter than here, he's got to laugh about it all, and he's like, "Yeah, so they jumped on the fat again." Please, let's get back to the subject that we've been sitting here today since 10:30, and let's go back to what's really a major problem, even though, of course, the things that are going on here and that you're dealing with here are a small problem. But what really matters is why we're here today, it's not. And please, let us keep this substantive debate on pension reform and other matters for those debates that will be intended for this. Now let's focus on the arrogance of power that Andrej Babiš is showing here, even though he has a bold competition from his party not, but from a government colleague, Mrs. Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u19	I will now request the speech of the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura and the Chairman of the ČSSD and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u20	I'm free to follow up on what my previous speaker said. First a short comment and then specific questions to the Minister. That's how the Social Democrats got 7.3% in the election - uncomfortable, I understand, it happened to us too. A year ago, they decided to promote their great program in the government, then the Senate elections, out of 13 districts, were one. By the way, an opponent of the CSSD's accession to the government. Then there were municipal elections. In Prague, neither the representative, nor the Magistrate, nor any of the 15 large city parts. Now we had European elections and look how the voters appreciated the great policy of the Minister - 3.9. Seven, six, five, four, I think we can count on three, two, one. I was inspired by these questions by the color of the secretary's dress. Madam Secretary, what are your red lines for your government? What's it like working for a criminally prosecuted prime minister? How does it feel to work for a person whose company takes roughly as much on subsidies per year as you miss out on social services? What's it like to be humiliated that you're unable to replace the minister from your side in six weeks? That's what I'm interested in today! Not your self-righteousness, me, me, me, the first to do something here in the social sphere. What are your red lines? Will you work for the defendant's prime minister? Will you work for him even when the suspicions that are in the audit report are confirmed? That's what we want to hear today's answer. Don't distract! You serve Andrej Babiš, we don't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u21	I will now ask for the speech of the Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the ČSSD Jan Hamáček. And Mr. Jan Skopeček will be ready. All right, Minister, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u22	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I wonder if it makes sense to speak at this early hour, but I must. I want to appreciate the debate because until some eight minutes ago, I felt that there was a relatively sophisticated exchange of views. And it wasn't just my opinion, I'm also watching social networks, and a whole bunch of Twitter users congratulated themselves that at an advanced late-night hour here, The Chamber of Deputies is discussing reforms of the pension system with a culture. This has taken all of this with Mrs Černochová's performance. [[Protests on ODS benches.]] [[0.20 hours]] I'm convinced that some things shouldn't just be said. There are parliaments in the world, for example. British, who says what an MP can afford and what's behind the line. Addressing or calling someone stupid, calling someone a liar, I consider it a line, and so does the British Parliament. So I'd really like to, if it's just a little bit possible for us to get back to the sophisticated debate and not be personal, because if we're gonna move it to a personal level, we're probably gonna be here by 5:00 in the morning and we're not gonna figure anything out. First of all. Secondly, please all those who have the fate of social democracy at heart to leave it up to us. Honza Bartošek - I'm gonna use that word because we call each other - he's been performing here with everyone attacking social democracy, and the gun still gives him a blow job. Please leave this to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u23	Now, Mr Jan Skopeček, with a factual view. I just... So you're pulling her out. In addition, Mr Válek, with a factual remark. And so far I have only three applications, i.e. Mr. Válek, Mr. Klaus and Mr. Chairman of ODS Stanjura. That's three factual points so far. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u24	I apologize to my colleagues through the President, but it's already lost, so at least I'll enjoy it. So I would agree that there is a need for help with the children, and there is something that needs to be done for a greater birth rate, but if we sit every day until morning, as Parliament can do nothing about it, we will be useless in this regard. Perhaps only if we move legislation. And here I would like to remind the opposition Member, my colleague, Professor Putnová of Brno, who pushed through as an opposition MP - and I repeat that again, as an opposition MP, and I appreciate all the Members of the then Parliament who voted in favour of the proposal - so that the students at the university when they are on maternity leave would not be included in their studies to extend the study. Few people remember it today, but it was extremely worthwhile, and all of you who have daughters and those daughters study in universities and are in a situation where they either have to choose a career or they can choose children, so they appreciate this proposal. Many of my colleagues or friends, who have doctors' daughters, and during their daughter's studies, become pregnant, so they remember, and they remember with love the docent, who, as an opposition to the TOP 09, pushed through this proposal. I think support for families, support for young people, support for children isn't real, it's not left, but it's right or wrong. And to make it easier in the last 30 seconds, of course, we are having this whole debate about the Prime Minister, about his conflict of interest, and the Prime Minister has chosen tactics, he puts ministers on, the ministers are experts, some of whom are such experts that he has replaced them three times in the ministry during the year, and as the strongest weapon he has put on the secretary. I get it, I get it. And the show looked like it. However, I am positive and optimistic, and I believe that the Minister will now reach into... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] I'll sign up one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u25	So now, Mr Václav Klaus, on a point of fact, will be prepared by the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura and then I have Mrs Maláčová on the factual comment. There isn't another application yet. Mr. Válek. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u26	Last time I was acting as a unionist, I'm going to perform a little as an educator. I feel like it's already a farce that takes place here until 3:00 in the morning, but I'd say one thing. I very much disagree with Minister Maláčová's social policy, and I will talk about it in my speech, why I will not give confidence in this government. Absolutely uncompromising. On the other hand, I would like to stand up for her as a woman, because here to tell someone that she is stupid - here I would say as an educator that I would not be so sure in the campfires, Mrs Černochová, by your means, in comparing the cleverness of these two ladies. And the other thing. Mr. Bartošek, those seventh-grade jokes that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u27	Please address each other through me, Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u28	Sorry, Mr President. - who turned away their boobs and so giggling, I think it was quite undignified, at least I felt that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u29	I will now ask Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to speak. In addition, Minister Maláčová and Mr Válek will be prepared. So please, your two minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u30	So Václav Klaus stood up for Madam Secretary, why not, and insulted my colleague. So you're no better, nothing, not a second. And I don't want to be an arbiter, nor should you be an arbiter of the intellect of our colleagues. I'd like that. President Hamáček changed the cause. Yes, the debate was relatively calm. Ministers, masters of dodge and senseless speeches, have done their job. I'll also talk about their position when it's my turn, the way they understand it. Who's upset about the comrade's working atmosphere, Mr. Chairman Hamáček, through? Your Madam Secretary. Respectable performance. She spoke calmly, factually, specifically, did not offend anyone and triggered 38 factual comments in the first round, 36 in the second, the next time it will be 31. So about 90 factual comments for two minutes, 180 minutes, and then he says, why are we here so long? [[Fun in the ODS.]] I don't know, Mr. Chairman. But I understand that, and it is right that the President will stand up for his colleague. But, Minister through the Prime Minister, when your boss Andrej Babiš here, I mean the government boss, insults us all, all thieves, there are five thieves in the House, you all know what you were doing? Shut up! So either always talk or always shut up!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u31	So another one with a factual remark, Minister Maláčová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor and Mr. Válek will be ready. So far, I only have applications for these two factual points. Madam Secretary, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u32	Thank you, Mr President. In my contribution to voice distrust, I pointed out to the government what has succeeded in the social field in the last year. And I think it's been a lot. There's more work to be done. And what reaction did I reap? It's really been a lot that I'm arrogant and stupid. I think the reaction itself speaks of the level of debate in this House. Another thing I'd like to mention. I think we all know that benefits are pensions, pensions are benefits, yes, they are benefits, we can look together into the law, it's a parental contribution, a care allowance, and I think we all know that we know that benefits are pensions, pensions are benefits, yes, they're benefits, we can look together into the law, it's a parental contribution, a care allowance, and I think that's another forbidden word for the right, so that's really pointless. [[objections from the right]] So one more time. Please, I will not require an apology from the Member, I do not take it personally, it is a passionate opposition rhetoric, but I think it is not part of a decent rational debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u33	Thank you, and now I have two factual points. So, Mr. Válek MP. Please, your two minutes. And second, the MP and chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura came forward. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u34	So that I can finish it, through Mr President to the Minister. You know, when we were talking about incompetents, I was trying to be very correct. I told you what I thought, what kind of tips I had, and I don't think it was for the best. So let's be positive for the future. Let's get back to the problem we've been meeting about today, and that's the Prime Minister and his troubles. And we're having fun on health and social... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Well, I'm not saying he does. Let us return to the Social and Health Committee to the problem of these two committees and Minister Vojtěch, the reform of psychiatric care. And I believe that this time we will meet in full strength of both committees and both ministers so that we can move the problem forward and we can say: the reform of psychiatric care will move forward positively. I hereby thank you for attending this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u35	So thank you and now for the final point of fact, Chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club. Please, your two minutes. You're running to the microphone, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u36	Madam Secretary is teaching us what's polite, I won't argue with her. But it's polite to answer questions, so I'll repeat at least two. I asked about your red lines, so I'll repeat two questions. What's it like working for the accused Prime Minister? You like doing this, don't you? Is that a problem for you, or don't you care? And secondly, the second question. Will you work even if the Prime Minister is charged? Or don't you care again? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u37	So, thank you, I have no further factual point, so I will ask that Mr Vojtěch Munzar speak in the general debate and Mr Pavel žáček will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u38	Thank you, Mr President, a good early or late hour, as you wish. We flew through midnight, and today is exactly the year when this government was appointed. Symbolically on the Memorial Day of the victims of the Communist regime and on the anniversary of the execution of Milada Horáková. And today again, Andrej Babiš will rely on the vote of distrust of the Communists. How symbolic. We have the left-wing government of the ANO movement, the ČSSD and the KSČM movement, which has socialist recipes. But the ANO and the ČSSD have ruled us for the sixth year with their socialist recipes. And their socialist recipes make the state more expensive and expensive for taxpayers. The state's operating expenses are rising, various populist gifts are being handed out for a fare reduction, and the government no longer knows what pocket the taxpayer would take from. And the middle class will pay for all that. The state apparatus is swell, which is why it costs us more and more every year. And the more it swells, the more regulation and bureaucratic burden it invents and the more it wants to redistribute. And by doing so, this government creates a re-enacted and re-regulated state. This reduces competition in the Czech Republic. In the performance of the public sector according to the global competitiveness index, the Czech Republic took up to 97th place. So much for the advertising of effective state administration in opening speeches by the Minister of Finance and Minister of Industry and Trade. This government is only riding on the wave of economic growth from which it now benefits, but does not think much about the future. At a time of economic growth, we have deficit budgets, and the operating expenditure of the state is growing by miles. The combined tax quota will not only grow, but will continue to grow. It was 32,6 % in 2015 and 36.1 % in 2021. This means that you are redistributing an ever greater proportion of our gross domestic product. In other words, in order to give more populistly, the more people you want to take money from. Andrej Babiš wanted to run the state as a company. And I would ask the Prime Minister, through the President, not to speak to me in the back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u39	I think that, in general, there is a bit more noise in the House than would be appropriate. I know it's an advanced hour, but I'd like everyone to discuss it in the lobby if they're discussing anything. I think we still have a lot of time. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u40	Thank you. Andrej Babiš wanted to run the state as a company. And what would happen to a company whose efficiency would be ever less efficient, more expensive to operate, and more indebted to it all the time? Maybe he meant running the state as a subsidized firm. But he who subsidizes is a taxpayer. Our economy needs a strong middle class for the future. It needs people who, through their private activities, can contribute to the economic strength of our country. They can take care of themselves and their family. And you, Dear Government, have reduced and humiliated the contribution of such people throughout the economy only to their contribution to the state register. You burden active people with more and more administration. In the Czech Republic, companies must devote 40% more time to fulfilling their tax obligations than the average of EU countries and the European Free Trade Association. Excessive bureaucracy stifles business and people's own activities. You continue your pressure on small businessmen, small and medium companies. A few days ago, you pushed the power of another EET wave. You want to burden thousands of small businessmen, craftsmen, hairdressers, seamstresses, doctors, gardeners and others. You want to squeeze every crown out of them. Instead of being a partner to the citizens, instead of protecting the citizen, his rights to the state power are once again coming to the word of a tendency to protect the state power at the expense of the citizens. We are witnessing overuse of warranty orders that lead to the unauthorized liquidation of companies. We are witnessing a state apparatus on orders from above kneeling to companies. We are witnessing a situation where, without shame, the state administration is calling on newlywed couples to communicate their private details of the wedding reception to the state. We're witnessing tens of thousands of tickets for an unaccounted-for box of tickets, a cupcake or a pair of socks. For state power, it seems to be a fundamental undermining of the state's foundations. You're so hard on the little ones, but you're running over the big ones. The reason for this can be found in Andrej Babiš's statement as early as 2013, when he said: "Small and medium-sized enterprises are clichés and bullshit. We need to support a great industry that has a tradition here." The PR team advised the Prime Minister not to say that again. But in fact, his government is still going the same way. Using EET and pressure on small businessmen and entrepreneurs sweeps the way to the big ones because competition disappears. Nearly 2,000 small shops in the countryside have been destroyed since 2016. The country is thus losing the basic services it needs. When the Act on Investment Incentives was discussed here, the new Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister of Industry and Trade argued here a number of grant titles for entrepreneurs. But every grant title perverts the market, because then entrepreneurs do not compete with their skills to keep themselves on the market and offer some activity to our citizens, but only compete with how skilled they are in negotiating at ministries to obtain various subsidies. You make a massive contribution to turning the market economy into a subsidy economy. Of course, the big ones benefit from such a system. The little ones and the high schools will pay for it. You're doing the same thing about housing. This is one of our country's biggest current problems. Today, even the middle class, especially in some rich regions, is moving away from living. Average Čech earns eight years and nine months for an average older apartment of 3+1 - and it would not be allowed to buy anything. Pražan even less than 15 years old. And what does this government do? It further complicates and makes access to its own housing more expensive. He refuses to cancel the property acquisition tax. It presents the law on further regulation and tightening of mortgages. He wants to raise the charges for the deposit in the land register, he wants to cancel the excise duty exemption for the home boiler room. It urges cities and municipalities to raise property tax. And then he offers a few crumbs from the table in the form of limited government loans. This is not middle-class support and pro-family policy and housing support. Ronald Reagan said if it's moving, tax it. If it's still moving, regulate it. And if it stops moving, I want you to suck it up. The government of the ANO, CSSD and KSČM movement acts exactly like this. But President Reagan didn't mean it as a guide at the time. You've got it all wrong. To all take and maybe give something to the chosen ones in the growth of state power and state price, that is the socialist policy that you are really doing, and that is why this government does not have my trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u41	I, too, thank you and please the next speaker, Mr Žáček. Mr. Skopeček will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, before I begin, before I focus on my own subject, the main issue is internal security, so I would ask the Minister of Justice. Unfortunately, I wasn't in the room when she was talking about the phone eavesdropping. That is why I would like to ask what it was meant to be - listening to her critics. Did she mean to tell us that some of the MPs are being eavesdropped? So if I understand it in the context of her words, they should be critics. So it's about the opposition? Or is this about a million moments for a democracy that they publicly label? I consider it a serious matter. Once in the past, a high-level politician has been criticized for overuse of these resources, even the Prime Minister. I'm also saying that because I'm a member of the wiretap committee, so if we're to take her words as an incentive. [[0.40 hours]] However, now on the main subject. We are in the middle of the parliamentary term, thirty years since the crucial and turning year of 1989, which brought about the fall of the communist totalitarian regime and the return of freedom and democracy not only to our country. Instead of a dignified reminder, as in 2018, we deal with the problems of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. A policy of special embossing, a symbol of our inadequate settlement with our communist past and the specific return of communists to power. I would like to comment on the fulfillment of the Babišův Government's programme statement on internal security issues, while I cannot ignore his problems with law enforcement authorities or various audit authorities. If the Prime Minister, the supreme representative of the government administration, is being investigated by the police and prosecutors, by the key authorities of the executive power, possibly by various audits, due to his conflict of interest, let us not be surprised by the interest of the authorities involved in criminal proceedings concerning him. And since Andrej Babiš created in our terms a new model of top policy, a subsidy oligarch, for whom domestic and foreign policy is just a continuation of business by other means, let us not be surprised either by his interest in these state authorities. This gigantic conflict of interest and some other factors - which will still be mentioned - so logically affect the activity, and even the personnel situation in security forces and intelligence services. It is no wonder that this objective situation interferes and often also calls into question the activity - truth, sometimes, seems rather inaction - of the Police of the Czech Republic, and even raises conflict with prosecutors. This abnormal situation seems increasingly inconspicuous and, above all, alarming. But let us turn attention to fulfilling the Babišův government's programming statement, or both of its governments, which do not differ very much in their formulas. I would like to warn you and our public that the government has failed completely in fulfilling its program thesis, with practically nothing of its promises, except the status of so-called. a mandatory relocation mechanism. Apparently it was and doesn't matter who is currently in charge of the Ministry of the Interior. The weakness of the performance of this key function is quite obvious. The situation here cannot be described as anything other than trivial and maintenance, clearly unsustainable in the long run. But in order not to speak abstractly, I'm going to select a few quotes from the government's programming statement. I quote: "We will develop an integrated rescue system to deal with emergency situations and to protect against terrorism. To this end, we will strengthen the full coordination of the security policy of the State." Even after almost two years, it is not clear how the government wants to strengthen the coordination of the security policy of the state, when we still don't even know who actually manages this agenda at the Office of the Government. As far as is known, it was from here in quotation marks to leave almost the entire department that was in charge of this area. Is that how better coordination is done? Another quote: "We will create functional structures to prevent and combat hybrid and cyber threats. " In fact, nothing has yet been done in this area, except maybe idle language. When a working version of the Cyber Defence Act appeared, it was not very good and rather than the answers raised a number of other questions. In doing so, we all know that today is a key area of our defence and national security. The last comprehensive legal standard on cyber security dates back to 2014. Since then, the situation has shifted considerably, and today this law is far from sufficient for the current need. We do not have the tools available, but mainly legislation on how to effectively defend ourselves in the event of cyber-attack. Another quote: "We update and implement recommendations from the National Security Audit." Another important promise that has not yet been fully fulfilled. I am very looking forward to finally discussing this updated key document and its implementation, or meeting our security forces. Another quote: "We will require independent control of all intelligence services and ensure their better coordination at the government level in order to add up the results of their work. " As we all know, after a long meeting, an independent control body was finally established, which until now exists only on paper. In other words, it still lacks adequate intelligence control. In doing so, there is a clear and to some extent understandable tendency to increase competence and to extend the authorisation of intelligence services and other security authorities of the State. It is unacceptable that, at the same time as the powers of security forces are extended, their parliamentary control should not be strengthened in parallel. Another quote: "We will financially support the improvement and efficiency of the functioning of the security forces and the integrated rescue system. " Although there has been an increase in funds, an increase in tariffs, it is illusionary to think that at the same time the functioning of security forces has been improved and improved. More money doesn't automatically mean more security. It just doesn't work that way. Try asking directly the members of the street, let's see what answers you to the question, whether they have felt the improvement and efficiency of the operation in the last five or six years. It is no coincidence that today security forces often leave the most experienced and fail to accept new, high - quality adepts. Another quote: "We will strengthen and stabilise staffing at all levels, increase management efficiency and cooperation of individual components, and make career growth more attractive in security forces, including an increase in job evaluation." What the Ministry of the Interior and the Government mean to the concept of "enthusiastic career growth and increase the evaluation of work" can be illustrated by an amendment to the Act on the Service of Security Corps members, whose approval allows members to do business in virtually any sector. This step for many of them means a signal: you better make more money, because we are not able to stabilize you. The normal thing is that members of state security don't need to do business because the state will take care of them. Any privatisation of these important state bodies, and I do not mean merely their possible agrofertisation, should be absolutely unacceptable, especially when the Constitutional Court did not require it in this form, and sooner or later it can only avenge us all. Moreover, all parliamentary parties, except the ODS, who voted against the amendment as the only one, clearly considered that reducing administration and bureaucracy in security forces would help most by introducing further administratively demanding, costly and lengthy procedures in the field of service. Not only do I think it remains only a matter of time when the courts will once again address the disunity of access to members of the security forces and now also to professional soldiers. In short, the security forces are not in very good shape and cannot be talked about stabilizing them at all. Let us just remember how the so-called staff force has strengthened and stabilized their leadership. First, after two months of public defamation, the Prime Minister was wounded by the Director of the General Inspection of Security Corps, Colonel Michal Murín, who, by the way, was assisted by three senior prosecutors, standing on the other side of the imaginary barricade today. Few believed that the reason for the change in the leadership of GIBS was not an attempt to influence the investigation of the Chapi hnízdo led by the Regional Headquarters of the capital city of Prague. In May 2018 General Miloš Trojánek, General Miloš Trojánek, finished, allegedly voluntarily, the director of the Regional Directorate of the Police of the Czech Republic. Few believed that the reason for the change in head office management was not an attempt to influence the investigation of the Cape hnízdo. As part of a political revanše to the Office of Foreign Relations and Information, i.e. civilian intelligence, General Jiří Šašek ended in May 2018. By the way, we still don't know if the suspicions published in the holding press were relevant. In August 2018, Colonel Michal Mazánek was replaced by the director of the National Headquarters against organized crime for his name tag Colonel Jiří Mazánek. Few believed that the reason for the change in the management of NCOZ was not an attempt to influence some other investigations concerning the past of Andrej Babiš. In November 2018, the current police president, General Tomáš Tuhý, was reported to have found himself in a diplomatic post in Bratislava. Few believed that the reason for the change in the leadership of the Police of the Czech Republic was not an attempt to influence the investigation of the Chapi hnízdo. In June 2019 Colonel Jan Ptáček finished as Director of the Regional Directorate of the Czech Police of the capital city of Prague and was replaced by Brigadier General Tomáš Lerch. Few believe that the personnel changes in the management of the Regional Directorate have not been made as a result of a small effort to influence the investigation of the Chapi hnízdo. It is appropriate to state here that, thanks to the investigation into the Prime Minister's cases, police authorities, but today, for example, the prosecutor's office, must defend the accusation of bias. Each of their new officials, after their appointment as prime minister, must resist the suspicion that he will go into his hand and interfere with the living cause in his favor. Each of them must be aware that when Andrej Babiš ends up in office, and it may not take long, he will have to settle accounts. Another quote: "We will reduce the bureaucracy and administrative burden of police officers so that they can concentrate on their basic activity, which is particularly the fight against crime and related accompanying phenomena. " During the entire period of Babišův's reign, I have not heard of measures to reduce the administrative burden or bureaucracy for police officers. I really can't think of anything. Finally, even the meeting of the Committee on the Safety of Our Honored House shows that it is the other way around. [[0.50 hours]] Another quote: "General police need to be involved in an integrated rescue system and activities related to ensuring greater security of citizens, in cooperation with the state police." I don't think there's even any point in discussing or commenting more deeply. Absolutely nothing, nothing. Another quote: "We will continue to support the right to defend ourselves and hold legal weapons. " Even "continue to support" in the newspeaku of this government probably means that mountains of mines are promised, a series of photos will be made when signing petitions for legal possession of a gun, but the actual work will again be done by someone else. We will all then be surprised that we were re-voted in Brussels because no one negotiated anything. On this occasion, I would like to recall the initiative of my colleague Černochová, who has been addressing this agenda since 2015 and is actively defending the law of careful legal holders of arms. But what did the Minister and then the Prime Minister and his two governments do for them first? Perhaps only hard preparations for the implementation of stupid, so-called. the arms directive, instead of initiating new negotiations, as the ODS was the first to call for, and for which we even have the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. The penultimate quote: "We will tighten the conditions for private security services and push for the adoption of the Private Security Services Act to be more stringent under State control. " In particular, because of the lack of interest of the Minister of the Interior, it is an empty declaration so far. We still do not have the Private Security Services Act in the Chamber of Deputies. Finally, the last quote: 'We will support voluntary citizens' preparedness programmes for crisis situations in the protection of the population'. I'm quite embarrassed to keep repeating myself, but nothing happened in this area either. In conclusion, I am forced to state that the evaluation of the implementation of the government's programme is quite overwhelming in the area of internal security. It would be possible to remember a number of missteps, unfulfilled promises, inactions and other sins at this point, but I will stress at least more and more opening scissors between social services on the one hand and, on the other, state security and legal protection. Perhaps it is not necessary to emphasise, rather after the discussion that just ended, which area, in the current overall uncertain security situation, has been neglected and underestimated in the long term. I am not convinced, even on the basis of the facts presented, that the government of Andrej Babiš would pay as much attention to national security matters as this issue certainly deserves today. And in the very conclusion, let me respond to the morning address directly from Prime Minister Babiš, by the way, sort of repeatedly repeated on the occasion of the vote on government trust, and say a few words on the subject of State Security. Yes, I reiterate that the opening of the archives of the Czechoslovak Communist secret police and individual civil public unions took too long. This goes without saying to the first political Garnitur after November 1989. But I consider it particularly spicy if it is criticized by a person whose agency union has been stored and accessible to the research public since 2004 in the archives of the National Memory Institute in Bratislava. But otherwise, I agree with criticism in the sense that if the archives of the State Security had been declassified and opened earlier, we wouldn't be sitting here dealing with the political problems of Andrej Babiš. And one more point I have to make is so-called. the shredding or destruction of agency operational materials by National Security Members, which was also mentioned by the Prime Minister in the morning. I will allow myself to repair it again on the basis of a long-term study of springs. This shredding of tens of thousands of volumes did not take place under the first non-communist minister of the interior Richard Sacher, who was appointed to the post of Václav Havel in the last days of 1989, but already in the first decade of December 1989 in the gesture of the then first Deputy Federal Minister of the Interior of Alojz Lorenc. Yes, that Lieutenant General Lorenc, the last effective Chief of State Security, who was responsible, among other things, for the management of the political police central forces, including the administration of counter-intelligence in Bratislava, i.e. XII. the administration of the National Security College and its members, who, among other activities, organised an agency confidential network in foreign trade enterprises, including PZO Petrimex. And to the very end, I add that this shredding, which was intended to destroy compromising evidence of the activities of the Communist Party and its power bodies, was not entirely consistent, as evidenced by the agency ties discussed today with the cover names of Bureš and Falmer. Agency unions, so to speak, which, in view of our special political-social situation, still have 30 years after the collapse of the Communist regime to strengthen the current government coalition. Of course, this government does not have my support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u43	Thank you. Before I give the floor to another speaker in a proper debate, there are some priority rights and some factual points. So first of all, Mr králíček, then Mr Růžička. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u44	Good morning, everyone. I would only like to respond to Mr. Žáček's performance, because I think that this is proof that the performances in some cases are, as I would say, false or purposefully distorted. Specifically, his speech, where he talks about the missing law on private security services, so he himself was present at several expert debates that we held last year and a half, and currently the law is up to the government. So it's not true that nothing happened. It is up to the government to move to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u45	Thank you. And now, Mr Růžička, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u46	Good morning. I would, for Professor Žáček, through Mr President of the IZS. What you said here that the IZS didn't work - I don't have that impression. The IZS works perfectly, firefighters are bought new technology, firefighters are super trained, firefighters are doing great hits. And it's not just that. It's a matter for the Home Secretary, it's a matter for the Prime Minister, it's a matter for the government. So what you're saying here is definitely not true. Another thing, like you said, training or teaching school. That works, too. It works as a guarantor of Ústí Region and Zlín Region, where fire protection goes to schools. There are programs where children learn how to respond to emergency events, what to do when a fire is set, learns to provide first aid. That works, too. Maybe you just don't know it. And one last thing - implementation of the weapon directive. It is not only Mrs Černochová who is doing this, it is also done by our Members. Our Members are in contact with the Ministry of the Interior, the department that deals with implementation. We regularly cooperate with them and try to make implementation the best possible and to meet all arms holders. That's what I'd like to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u47	Thank you, too. And now, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just maybe allow myself to correct my previous speakers a little bit, because Mr. Žáček didn't question the integrated rescue system in any way. In this we all agree that it is indeed a functional system, a system that would certainly deserve better technology, better equipment, more money, better evaluation. He quoted here from the programming statement, where it says that we will financially support the improvement and efficiency of the functioning of the security forces and the integrated rescue system, which, perhaps we agree, does not mean questioning it. And the law on security agencies, security services. If the system is up to the government, we, as Members, do not have access to eKLEP. [[Law]] I am now learning this from you, even though I know from Mr Ondráček that this is something that is being said. But I have not yet received the paragrafo text as a Member of the Security Committee. So I'm curious what the proposal will contain. And I just hope and believe that this will not be the same proposal that was discussed here in the last parliamentary term and which, fortunately, has not been negotiated because it was very bad. So, even in this regard, Mr. Žáček wasn't lying. You used that word, I was reprimanded for him before. I'm not reprimanding you for him because I don't see anything pejorative about lying or stupidity. So here it was meant that it had not yet been presented to the Chamber of Deputies for the trial. We've been more than two years since the election. If these standards are not presented, say, by the fall of this year, I do not think they will be able to discuss this term of office, which is a shame and will be contrary to your programming statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u49	So these were all factual points, and now please, with the priority right of Mr. Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u50	Okay, once again, I don't know if you have a good evening or good morning. Anyway, the time has progressed. I understood that colleagues from the ODS club were tasked with choosing ministers thematically and everyone according to their expertise made it clear to us, so I went out on Mr. Žáček or he came out on me, which doesn't matter. I want to say to the honourable Member, through Mr President, I have come prepared to kidnap criticism and I am ready to answer for what I have done in the Ministry of the Interior that year. But I would like to ask you, Mr President, to attack me. Don't attack those cops and those firemen. What you said here about the fact that our security system is in principle a broken, burned country, nothing works - that's just not how it is. I've been driving around the Republic, I've traveled all 14 counties, I've talked to county chiefs, both police and firefighters. I believe that even within your demanding program as a member of the Security Committee, you will find time from time to time and go out with firemen or policemen, then take a picture with them. We all thank them for the job. So please don't kick them, and let's not say that their work is pointless, or that it just doesn't work. Our security system is one of the best in the world. Our cops and firefighters are working. An integrated rescue system - we come from all over the world to see how it's organized. And we love sharing experience. And those who do not have this well organized will always be happy to advise them. So please criticize the functioning of the Ministry of the Interior. I'm ready to go to the Security Committee. After all, I go there a lot. And if I'm not mistaken, tomorrow at 9:00, or actually, we have another meeting today at 9:00. So I'll be there. You can criticize me there. But please, let us not kick people who serve the Czech Republic. That's one. And that's what the other thing has to do with it. Again, I'm willing to accept criticism. What I cannot accept is the staff that the Member has probably used in the middle of the performance. You mentioned specific stories of specific people here. I know their story with each one of them. But I wouldn't dare speak for them on the microphone here, why they decided what they decided. You're the one who took it. You said they all left because it had to do with čapí's nest. What do you come from, Mr President? Do you have any evidence? Then contact GIBS. I know why General Trojánek left. Maybe if you went to Jihlava and had coffee with him, he'd tell you. It certainly wasn't because of the Chapi Nest case. And please pick up and ask him before you attack him on the microphone here, that he was driven out of Prague, or that he left because of Chapi's čapí. It's not true. Mr. General Šašek's case, we can talk about how it was on the intelligence team. I'm glad this whole thing is being investigated. Intelligence has a new leadership that has no connection to past problems. And the service is stable. And that's my job. Mr. Mazánek left at his own request. You can call him, too. I talked to him before he left, thanked him, got a present from me. And the man he chose came in. TomáTomáš Tuhý - I think we all know that he decided at some point to end his affair with the police and move on to diplomacy. And I think he is a very good ambassador to the Czech Republic in Slovakia. As far as the last exchange in Prague is concerned, Colonel Ptáček has been in a double role in the last six months, I believe, on the server netoketini.cz. At first, he was accused of actually being the one who, with some unfair intentions, sent GIBS to Mr. Nevtípil. At the same time, we all know, at least those who are engaged in these things, that he couldn't have done anything differently, because the moment that the court verdict shows up that there was some kind of crime or suspicion, they just have to do it and investigate the matter. So at first he was attacked by wanting to remove Mr. Nevtípil, and after he was replaced, we'll know that he was actually replaced because he couldn't sweep the case under the rug. That's just journalistic speculation. I know Mr. new director or the incoming director in Prague Tomáš Lerch personally and I consider him a top cop. And I believe that Prague's Regional Directorate will raise up and do exactly what is expected of it. I'm also behind Police President Brigadier General Švejdar. He's a top professional. I wouldn't dare question his personnel decisions in my life. So please, if you want to criticize the Home Office, me, go ahead. Don't kick cops, don't kick firemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u51	Thank you. And now, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd like to ask the Home Secretary not to say a word here about someone left on someone else. You're lucky you didn't have any left over from me. [[Fun in all parts of the hall.]] But seriously, Minister. Perhaps there would be no misunderstanding with Mr. Žáček, if you took advantage of your preferential rights as Minister and stepped out here, presenting us with the achievements of the Ministry of the Interior under your leadership, just as your other colleagues from this government did. You've actually been hiding all day. You were hiding from the press because until a few hours ago, it seemed that the government might not get confidence today. And instead of sitting here in this hall, perhaps Mr. Žáček, but he also told the rest of us what you managed to do at the Ministry of the Interior, so that Mr. Žáček would not have to draw only from the government's programming statement. You were supposed to show off your accomplishments here, like your previous speakers did. As Minister Staněk did, Minister for the CSSD. Like Secretary Maláčová did. Why didn't you have the same presentation as your colleagues? So I'm really strongly opposed to someone saying there's someone left over. No. Mr. Žáček is Vice-Chairman of the Defence Committee. [[right for safety]] So be nice to him!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u53	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Žáček, with a factual remark, then Minister Hamáček. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u54	Thank you. Of course, I considered at Jana Černochová's first strong argument that I would withdraw my comment, because what can be said more than the Minister could have fallen into her gesture. But that's a lot of fun. I'd like to make a comment. I'm sure you'll never hear the words "burned land" from my mouth, Minister. That's a different kind of politician from another side, your side, or your former colleagues. The political conventions of all these exchanges, as I have justified in my contribution, are completely legitimate. In case you noticed, there was a question everywhere. There was a question everywhere. Those things weren't answered. In the last two years, we've basically been dealing with them continuously. I think I'm perfectly consistent in my attitudes, so you don't have to wonder why you heard that today. The key question we're talking about here is the conflict of interest. I didn't attack cops or other members of the integrated rescue system or firefighters. Read it again. I think they'll understand. That political view of me was directed somewhere else. And a colleague of Robert Králíček. I was just coming out of our last meeting. And I'm glad to hear it's up to the government. But we've all agreed, or not just us, that there's a strong political figure missing that would drag the law. And that was supposed to be the Home Secretary. He wasn't there. There was always only the deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u55	Thank you. And now Minister Hamáček. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u56	First of all, if I have touched Mrs Černochová or other colleagues in the ODS club by saying that I am left with someone or someone left with me, I apologize. I find it a little spicy in the context of Mrs Černochová's previous statement. But I'll apologize if anybody gets hurt. And next time, I'll try to avoid it somehow. [[1.10 hours]] And the reservations that were made. If I am not mistaken to offend anyone again, there have been statements from opposition MPs that the ministers are defiling here as an astronomical clock, that they are stretching their time here, that these performances are covering up the true nature of today's meeting, and now I'm blamed that I didn't do it. So I considered it important to be present and, in the event of questions and statements to the Ministry of the Interior, to answer them. First of all. I do not know how Mrs Černochová came to the fact that I was hiding from journalists somewhere. When I looked at my media scores today, I think I'm gonna be second or third, because I've been giving interviews here like on a treadmill, but okay, maybe I should have added some more and made two press conferences. But I certainly wasn't hiding. And the last thing I want to say to Mr. Žáček. You said the questions weren't answered. So here I am calling you on the microphone and on the record, not in the case of General Trojánek, nor in the case of Colonel Ptáček, nor in the case of Colonel Mazánek, nor in the case of Lieutenant General Tuhý, their personnel change had any connection to the case of the Chapi Nest. That's what I'm telling you here as Home Secretary, and I believe I have some credit leftovers in the Chamber of Deputies, so I'm saying that I guarantee it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u57	Thank you for your time and now, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. [[He doesn't want to.]] Not anymore? Okay. In that case, Mr Skopeček for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u58	Thank you very much. I had an eight-page speech ready for today. I wanted to compete with the Minister of Finance here, but we have already done something during the factual remarks, so I will try very, very short. I will take to heart those words from morning or morning from Madam Secretary that it would be good to stick to the facts and discuss on the basis of facts and cooperate etc. I'm very happy to cooperate, Madam Secretary. Here he tells me that it would be good to cooperate, so I answer that I will be very happy to cooperate when you want to reduce and simplify taxes, when you want to reduce state redistribution, so the cooperation, and I am open to it as much as possible, and I will support any tax reduction or tax abolition. Seriously. At least I wanted to summarize on some fundamental points why the government will not have confidence on my part in addition to what is being discussed today, the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, as well as what is happening at the Ministry of Finance during the year of this government, as well as during the previous years of the previous government, when the YES movement had the Ministry of Finance on its agenda. My first problem, why I cannot support this government, is that it increases the state's redistribution, thereby increasing the state's influence at the expense of free citizens. When we look at it with numbers, and the Secretary of State, they're numbers from your Ministry of Finance, so while in 2014, which I take for such a start of the ANO movement at the Ministry of Finance, public spending was 1.2 bill. CZK, so in 2020, it was almost 1.6 bill. Kč. So in the few years that the YES movement in the government manages the Ministry of Finance, it spends more than 380 billion. More crowns than when it entered the government. Although, of course, this is the result of other departments, etc., but you are in charge of the budget, the swell one, and the state redistribution is growing, and since the role of the state and the influence of the state is increasing and the private sector is getting away with it, it bothers me. The swelling of the state can be expressed by another number, it is the number of employees. In 2014, I take it again as a sort of start-up year of the YES movement in the government, so 424 306 employees worked for the state. If we look at the current state budget, it's already 469 737 employees. So for the few years since 2014, more than 45,431 people have been paid from the state budget, from public sources. For illustration only, 45 grand is the size of the town of Mladá Boleslav in the Central Bohemia Region. So we took about one mladý Boleslav from an efficient private sector and started paying it off by the state. Of course, the swelling of the state, whether thanks to greater redistribution, greater bureaucracy, more regulation, and therefore more civil servants, although I rightly add that there are also teachers, police officers and the army, that is to say, but we agree that the number of civil servants in ministries has also increased, so of course this swelling of the state also leads to the increasing tax burden on our fellow citizens. While in 2014, the state chose 1.1 bil. CZK, so in 2020, it's over 1.5 beats. CZK, i.e. during the six years you managed to pull 420 billion out of taxpayers' pockets. That's an extra penny. In order to be correct and not compare absolute numbers, because inflation and GDP growth are not counted there, let's compare it with the ratio indicator. The compound tax quota is record-high under your government. This year it is expected, and again it is data from your Ministry of Finance that it will climb to 35,7 %. This is the level at which the combined tax quota has never been in the history of the Czech Republic and has increased by several percentage points compared to previous years. Since 2014, it has increased by around three percentage points. So you impose a relatively higher tax burden on our fellow citizens, and that is also a reason for me, as a liberal politician and economist, that such a government that wishes to pull more and more out of taxpayers' pockets, so, of course, I cannot support it. I'm just a little surprised that even though the data is fairly clear that you've been talking about cutting taxes this morning, while reality is record withdrawals and record compound tax quotas, and you don't even want to stop. When we look at the last weeks and months, it's Armageddon, it's just a bomb that exploded, and the individual shrapnels bring new and new ideas about what taxes to introduce and what taxes to raise, so just in those few months, the taxpayer trembles that a sector tax will either be introduced in quotation marks, which they pay in higher fees or in lower credit availability. We are talking about introducing a digital tax, preparing a proposal to increase the excise duty rate on alcohol and tobacco, considering increasing the taxation of gambling, there is a proposal to tax the technical provisions of insurance companies, or punish insurance companies for saving and preparing for some sudden events. But it's also small things like doubling the deposit fee in the real estate register. Colleague Kolovratník has proposed an increase in road signs. So a week after a week comes from this government another and another idea for what taxes to raise or what taxes to introduce, and I say that again, when this government collects record taxes. You praise yourself for that, OK, that's a political attitude, you want to raise more money, and you want to redistribute more money through that state. I wouldn't praise myself for that, I would criticize myself for that. The only way I would praise myself is if I could reduce and simplify taxes and leave more money in people's purses, because I am actually convinced that these people will spend it better than the state. We talked about the state debt, that was another contribution I made. Again, it is a little unfair to compare the amount of sovereign debt to GDP with the right-wing government at a time when there was simply an economic downturn when there was a recession. On the one hand, tax revenues were falling, on the other hand, spending demands were growing, and gross domestic product was falling, as we explained in the fraction, so it was clear and logical that even if the government did not know what it did, then the debt would just grow. Just because the denominator dropped the fraction that expresses the ratio of sovereign debt to GDP. On the contrary, it is foolish to praise this ratio for falling at a time when the main part of the downward trend is making GDP rise, with which the government has little to do with it. Why I will not trust this government is the absence of reforms that, as a result, mean more vulnerable public finances in the future when some economic crisis that the government will not be able to do, whatever it is at the Straka Academy, so thanks to the fact that we have simply managed this six-year relatively economically successful period to do nothing about it (a) with the pension system, and again, here we have been debating for a long time, we have not done anything with the health system, so, of course, in the budget, which is still swelling, as I have talked about it, and the mandatorial spending is still at over 50 percent of GDP, and it is not only growing because of the fact that GDP growth is helping them in proportion again. But, of course, when the economy goes down, the volume will rise in relative terms of mandatorial spending, and any fiscal space of government will be reduced to do something about fiscal policy, because it will have to pay mandatorial. If I add quasi-mandatory expenses that the government can't do too much with, the government will be in a more difficult situation. So after six years of relatively decent economic growth, you're going to hand over public finances in a much more vulnerable state than you've gotten, and for the government that's coming, and there's going to be a crisis, so that's going to be a problem for the government. [[1.20 hours]] So why, in conclusion, briefly, I cannot vote for trust and say for distrust of this government, so simply. Despite the years of promises, we do not have a balanced budget and, for the coming years, even though the economy is still expected to grow, we are counting on a deficit until 2022. I'm here at the interception, and when the Prime Minister's here, I ask him, he once said that if someone had drawn up a business plan with a deficit, which he thinks is a loss, he'd be thrown out of the company immediately. So I was kind of overreacting, Prime Minister, when will you call off the Minister of Finance when he presents you with a business plan with a loss for several times, even at the time of the economic growth. Well, I don't quite understand what else Secretary Schillerová is doing in that place when she's doing such bad business plans. So we don't have a balanced budget through repeated promises, and for the next few years, a budget with a deficit of 40 billion is expected. Crowns. The Ministry of Finance has failed to simplify a very complex tax system over the six years that the YES movement has managed. According to the tax complexity index, the Czech Republic was only 85th place from 115 monitored. Despite promises and repetitions of the theory that the supergross wage will be abolished, whether in the government program or in the programme of the ANO movement, again in six years, even though it was here as an amendment, the supergross wage has not been abolished. The new Income Tax Act is missing. The proposal, I heard somewhere that he might be here over the summer, I don't know if it's true and when it's reality, when it becomes reality. But the new Income Tax Act is missing, even though you promised it. There is still no electronicisation of the tax system of online communication with the Financial Authority, although I know something will move forward in this direction. But after six years, we've got nothing here. Pension reform, there's no sign of it. I am glad that Minister Maláčová has promised here that after six years of social democracy in the administration of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, she will at least come up with a proposal. Well, if this continues at the same speed, Madam Secretary, I think we're going to pay faster with that electronic sales log for those space flights than to see some meaningful reform, because in six years, all we have here is the promise of a proposal. This government, in particular the YES movement, has also been very, very intensively engaged in the word investment and investment. And she promised big investments. I will just say that in 2019 the share of investment in the total expenditure of the state budget is lower than it was in the years of crisis when right-wing governments ruled. In 2019 the ratio is 8,1% to total expenditure, in 2009 it was 11.4. So you think the criminal right-wing government has invested a lot more than you have. So that's another thing worth criticizing and the reason to vote for distrust of this government. We've also heard promises to extend the Institute's flat-rate taxes. It didn't happen either, it didn't happen. We didn't have it at the House plenary either. When we look at the Financial Administration, I have noted here the ferocious Financial Administration, which, from the checks of the weddingmen through market controls, to the kneeling of companies and already several losses in the court as regards hedge orders, and we had a case where we also called on you to the budget committee, which is in the coalition's hands, to staffly address the things that were related to the fact that the Financial Administration staff were financially motivated by the amount of tax assessment, that is certainly a problem worth mentioning when you mentioned the achievements, so I, on the other hand, the failures. I could go on like this. In fact, the only thing I think you've done, even though I'm not happy about it, is that you've managed to push through the House of EET. You really succeeded, that was a priority. But that's all we can think of as a visible thing, even though I don't see it as positive. But the whole series of things I've been talking about here speak for the fact that the Ministry of Finance has not been and is not well managed and that we've managed the six years in which there was something structurally positive to do with public finances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u59	Thank you, too. And now, with priority rights, Minister Schillerová will respond. Then perhaps we would get back into the general debate. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thought I wasn't gonna react today, but I still have a few things to say about Mr. Skopeček here. These will be topics that we will still be dealing with over the next few months, but I will respond because these topics are constantly coming back and again. And I will allow myself to set them straight. I'm not opening pension reform anymore. I think we've said a lot. I'm not new at the moment... or I should, but we'd escalate again. A compound tax quota. I already think we've been doing this rhetoric together, Mr. Ambassador, doesn't mean the taxes are going up. The compound tax quota is growing, and you know it. But there was no increase in the total taxes. Why is she growing? Because over 50 percent of the revenue is income tax on dependent activities, or wages. And because our average wage is rising, of course, we're growing the volume, including social, but no taxes, no social, no insurance, so let's be correct. The growth of the compound tax quota does not mean that our taxes are growing. As far as the budget is concerned. Of course, the budget is now approved at its first stage. And we'll be working on it all summer. However, I would like to say - and I have been talking about it here, I have the graph appropriate, but I will not bring it up at this hour, at 1:30 in the morning - that public finances have never been as good in shape as they are now. Of course, that doesn't mean anything can get worse. So we still have to make sure they stay in that condition. Public finances as a whole. And the state budget is only part of these public finances. I'm saying this here forever. The European Commission also evaluated this. I did it again today, I'm not gonna say it again. So we're eventually, if the economy continues to slow down, we're well prepared for it. He appears repeatedly, and not only from you, but also from President Kalousek, he is not here now, so I will not quote him, let me be correct, the share of investment in the total volume of investment appears. Yes, it is about 8 percent of what we are planning in the 2020 budget. And you're still comparing it to those old years when it was 11 percent. Unfortunately, I didn't find the chart right now where I kept the charts, but next time, I'll be ready. I've got it in there somewhere, but as soon as I got here, I didn't find it. Yes, there was 11 percent - but at what price? There was a huge deficit and growth there was about 4.5 percent. But I'm gonna look up the chart and say exactly next time, because I'm sure the debate isn't over. We are the 40-billion-dollar deficit, which is constantly, and you know, I reduced it by 10 billion in the 2019 budget, and at this point, thanks to the slowdown in the economy, I just prepared the first budget proposal with a 40-billion deficit, but let's just remember that only the pensions, only the increase in pensions of 900 crowns on average, is 37 billion. And you're in a deficit. [[A voice from the diaper.]] It's okay. I don't blame you at all. All I'm saying is that I'm not - it didn't fall on your part today, so I'm correct, but I often hear that we eat, that we just... So what's eating? You didn't say it today, so I'm saying it, I want to be correct, but it's another time. It's the pensions, it's the teachers' salaries. Last year, we raised public sector salaries because we have 60 percent of our officials there. And what you guys have been blaming me for, like, in the budget review of 2019, it was mostly... [[The secretary drinks water.]] Sorry, I'm sorry. Most often it was said that our salaries were rising, the mandatorial expenses - that is true. That we're growing numbers of officials. I explained, I had graphs here, pies, how it came to be moved there, that most of those officials are teachers that we cannot afford to lower, that is related to the reform of regional education prepared by the previous government, and that government had to provide it financially. [[1.30 hours]] However, last year I was the first finance minister to come up with a reduction in the so-called dead souls, or vacant places. We've reduced, I believe, 1 700 or 1,600 seats, but I've introduced a system of binding means: 3% fluctuations, 3 to 5 percent binding means to fill the space, and over 5% I've just been cutting those places off. This saved us 3.4 billion in the budget of 2019. And so that it doesn't just stay with the budget and one of the other finance ministers doesn't go back to this system, we've processed an amendment to the budgetary rules where this binding will be once and for all. She's now roughly at the level of the Government Legislative Council, so she's headed for the government. So these are the steps we started last year. And I made it clear to my colleagues that we will continue. And also what I promised...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u61	I would ask colleagues and colleagues to keep them quiet in the Chamber of Deputies, and if they have some things they want to deal with, let them deal with next door. It's been an advanced hour, and I think we'd all like to end it in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u62	Thank you. That means I'm just in January, which is correct, she told her colleagues that we're going to continue with the reduction. If digitization is progressing, if the work is simply done differently, more modernly, I'm based on experience from my resort and that's plus minus repeating, so we just can't keep working with the same number. And I just said, I'm putting pressure on you to optimize, start systemizing and start saving. And now we're not talking about the savings of 10 percent of the operating expenses that I just took away from all the directors. In the budget of 2020, all departments reduced operating expenditure, the narrower operating expenditure by 10 %, but at the same time I set a reduction in a certain incentive. So far, I'm counting until I know the macroeconomic forecast for July, which will clearly say, more precisely, how this development is going to go on, so I'm just counting on 2% of the public sector's salary growth, which is copying inflation. We estimated inflation next year at 1.6, but we already know it's going to be something, or we suspect it's going to be a little bit higher, because there wasn't a rate package, which, because we did it on April 5, and he hasn't been approved by the government yet, so he's definitely going to be around 2%. And I just said, I propose a reduction system - departments 10 %, organizational units of the state 5 %, contribution organizations 3 % and half of the saved funds are returned to wages. Or maybe they won't just lower the resorts, and then, of course, the wages will grow differently. Because, of course, there are differences. There are ministers who are willing to work it off. And it takes some work. Those aren't blunt cuts. At the Ministry of Finance, I agreed to do this by optimizing, systemizing, merging different units so that they wouldn't be 1 : 5, that we just have one manager for five employees on average in the public sector, and so on. This savings, as I put it in budget 2020, into the first proposal, make about 5,700 employees savings. And the financial savings are about 1.7 billion. and saving those narrower operating expenses is about 3 billion. I know, you say it's not enough, but it's got to start somewhere. Anyway, I would like to say that apart from the pensions - pension will increase from 1 January 2020 to approximately an average of CZK 14, 358. That's an increase, actually, of 900 crowns I've already said, 37 billion. So we secured a parental contribution in line with the government's statement, as I said in my other performance. Of course, it takes account of the time of the card, which means a fall in income of around 4 billion. social security. There is a secured care allowance, which also moves around 4 billion. So a whole series of these things. In particular, I want to say that there is a 10 per cent increase in teacher salaries for 2020 and for 2021 I have already made 9 per cent in the medium-term expenditure frameworks, so that in 2021 we achieve the commitment given by the government statement. That means an average salary of about 45,000 educators. What is important, and you will also be interested to know that we are counting on another increase in capital expenditure by almost 13 billion. to a total of 135, including the EU. So from national sources it would be about 85 billion. And research, development, innovation by 5.5 billion. We are strengthening, which is about 48 billion. And from national sources, this will be financed by 78 percent. Defence spending has already been mentioned here during the day, we are increasing it by almost 8 billion, which means we are counting on a 1.3 GDP increase in defense spending in 2020 and 1.5 percent in 2022. We are also revisiting the contribution to self-government by 5%. That means the kind of contribution that serves to transfer the scope of the individual ammunition. Then you spoke, Mr. Ambassador, about the new taxes. As regards the creation of reserves or the regulation of insurance reserves. That's not a new tax, please. It's something that was correctly inserted into a government statement. So it's not something we suck out of our fingers. The problem is that some insurance companies - not all of them, some of them have a problem with it and some of them haven't, depending on how they joined in making reserves. If I had to completely humanize it, the problem, the insurance company would just close the insurance policy with you, the accident insurance for the car that costs - I'll make it up - 500 crowns a month. And, according to his considerations, he's creating an accounting reserve for possible damage. And the creation of reserves is not regulated in any way. This means that some of these insurance companies, some of them are already governed by the European directive Solvency II, some of them do it simply. But then there are insurance companies that do it really big. This means that they actually regulate the creation of a reserve, reducing their tax base and tax by that reserve. Only a propos insurance company pays about 2.6 billion a year. And we're saying, of course, they're going to pay in the future, they're going to delay their payment, and we said in a government statement, we want to regulate it, we're going to give you five years, and we basically want that deadline. [[Nesroz.]] You deliver at a certain point, we're decompose for two more years, and then you're all going to do it the same way under the European Solvency II directive, that's fair. We had it in a government statement, we're putting it in a rate, or tax package up to 2020, we're actually going to be up to 2021, because it's one-year delay. Or the realization, the efficiency comes sooner, but the realization up to 2021. And we've been breaking it down for two more years. So that's five years. That's just fair. But I'm sure that's what we're gonna talk about at a meeting where we're going to discuss the rate package. [[It's busy in the hall.]] As far as excise duties on alcohol and cigarettes are concerned, we will also talk about that. He's not here, Mr. Health Minister, but it's gonna be at the next meeting immediately, so we're gonna have to make all these arguments. We did a press conference, we did it with medical capacities at the adictological clinic. There was Mr. Chief, there was Professor Králíková, who is our specialist in smoking problems. And that's where the Minister of Health, along with the government agent for addiction, represented the hard data. Our average wage increased by 40 percent over five years, and the excise duty on hard alcohol did not increase for ten years. For cigarettes, basically, at least. So we want to increase the availability. In the Czech Republic, 12 litres of pure alcohol, including infants, is consumed per person per year. It's not normal. According to OECD statistics, we're in a beautiful second place. I'm going to have numbers here, virtually. Minister of Health, how many teenagers they use. And I'm just gonna say three more numbers--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u63	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you because it is very difficult in this advanced class to maintain morale in the Chamber of Deputies. I do not want to appoint individual Members and I would really ask you to finish today's meeting day and listen to each other. 'Cause otherwise I'm gonna interrupt the meeting and we're gonna keep going when it's quiet, which I don't think anybody wants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll try to speed it up. Only three numbers and I'll have them here in detail when I present the prize package. All-social costs associated - and now I'm always gonna flip those numbers, so if I were to say it inexactly, I'm sorry, they're almost two hours now - related to the consequences of smoking are 100 billion. per year, associated with the consumption of hard alcohol 60 billion. every year - maybe it's the other way around. And related to the effects of gambling is 15 billion. per year. And the state gets some 10 billion. Not really, eight? A drop in the sea. So that's why. And the Minister of Health has simply demanded this increase several times already. And I'm going to have numbers, graphs. Gambling is another topic, where we only dusted off the original proposal of the former Minister of Finance, behind me sitting Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, from 2015, which the then Chamber of Deputies here simply overruled. There were three rates and suddenly there were two of them. So I took the proposal and put it back in the game. That's all. Because it was calculated, it was supported by analysis. So that's why we've come to these adjustments. And the digital tax? You see, I am, as soon as I became Minister of Finance, I immediately supported OECD activities to accept digital tax on a global platform. That's the only right solution. But this is a long-distance run, and I think it will take years for those countries to reach an agreement within the OECD. Then I supported Bruno Lemmer, the French Finance Minister, who proposed that the digital tax be introduced at least within the European Union in about two or three months later. This proposal also fell under the table, so we said following the pattern of Austria, France, I still feel England, now I'm not quite sure we're just going to implement it. The international speedster will not pass through the territory of the Czech Republic unless there are tracks. So these digital IT giant companies, now I mean Facebook, Google, YouTube, these huge giants, they can't do business here either, and they can't get revenue from it if we don't have a built-up IT infrastructure here. So we basically set it up. Now this proposal is in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, so it is moving slowly and with certain steps to the government and then to the Chamber of Deputies. And I greatly appreciated the award of Bloomberg magazine, which wrote that the Čech showed the world how to properly tax internet giants. And we are already hearing from colleagues from the surrounding countries that they would like to get acquainted with our proposal. So that's it. It's just a long time, it's not a new tax. It's kind of a compensatory tax. They pay their taxes in their country. According to our tax laws, a permanent establishment does not come into existence here, i.e. There's no legal title to tax them in any way. We need to introduce a process of reporting and these things. And it's just a step in the right direction. I've still got a lot on my plate, but I won't, because the Prime Minister is already saying, "Oh, my God! I was just about to tell you about the online financial office. I made breakfast for the press. If you're interested, I'll make breakfast for you. I'll reconstruct your online financial office. It was a great deal of interest, we did it last Friday. It doesn't have the final facelift yet, so Mr. Ferjenčík will definitely criticize me for being unmodern. And I told the press right away, it's not the final facelift, we're just showing you the functionality. So I'm saying in advance it doesn't look like it's gonna be. But it just shows the connection, the inputs, etc. If you're interested, we'll be happy to present it to you. [[From the O.R. this morning, the breakfast.]] Says the minister this morning. [[I beg you, don't shout at yourself!]] I'm done. So there's a lot I'd like to tell you, but everyone here is yelling at me to leave. I'm so sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u65	Thank you. We have two factual points here. Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr Marian Jurečka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u66	Do not do anything about it, Madam Secretary through the President, I too have a lot to say, and I haven't said much either. And I'm looking forward to breakfast and I'd love to come. But three points or just three reactions to your performance. A compound tax quota, with it, is really measured the tax burden imposed by the government on taxpayers in the economy. And there's no excuse for that. It is simply an example of the great tax burden you impose on people, and it is simply an objective fact that it is the highest tax burden in your government. And you know very well that we have discussed the basic discount on the taxpayer here, that I have also tabled an amendment that has responded to the fact that the basic tax discount on the taxpayer has not increased for many years, that is, with inflation and the increase in the average wage, its relative level on the taxpayer's salary is decreasing, that is, without doing anything, you are already increasing the tax burden on the taxpayer, which is also reflected in the higher tax quota. So you're not gonna talk yourself out of higher taxes. Then you asked what it was to eat, what you had to imagine under it. You were talking about the pensions again, so I'm gonna give you one example of the eating. For me to eat it is necessary to pay the fare discounts that you pay to seniors and students regardless of whether they are students of poor or wealthy conditions. That's one example of what I consider to be a waste. And you said 40 billion. deficit. There's an increase in pensions. If I'm not mistaken, an increase in pensions is 37 billion. And next year's budget is worth 100 billion. CZK extra in cash. So 100 billion. plus, 37 billion. pension costs and a 40-billion-dollar deficit. [[Time!]] I think it's three numbers and everyone can do the math.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u67	Thank you. The next in line with the factual remark is Mr Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u68	Thank you. Good morning. I thank the Minister for such a comprehensive list, which could certainly have been even longer, and he might have taken the impression that everything here is sunny, even though it is less than two o'clock in the morning. Well, I'd just put it a little bit into reality. When you say, Madam Secretary, how everyone praises us in Europe for how well we have public finances, it would also be fair to people who are not completely following it in detail and who are looking at us to tell us what makes the public finances okay. Thanks to good management of municipalities, towns and regions, which have their surpluses. And if you look at the state's economy, I will ask you not to comment, Madam Secretary through the President, in the words of Jesus Christ etc. We can discuss this here publicly in the factual context. But if we look at the situation as well as in terms of your government's management, I'll make a comparison. Between 2014 and 2017, during Bohuslav Sobotka's reign, the total deficit over the four years was 84,9 billion. Kč. As far as your government is concerned, the reality plus the plan you confirmed this week, the deficit will be 118 billion by the end of 2021. Kč. Yes, the reality may be better, but that's the plan, and that's how Andrej Babiš used to say when he went into politics, how he would have kicked that director out of that company if he had drawn up that deficit budget for him. So that's just it. And if I were to declare it for people who are watching some historical things, then if you remember that historic Kalouskův bill that expressed that symbolic government debt converted into one person, I don't know if you remember how much it was on that bill at the time, but there were 121,000 crowns on that bill at the time. If you take it for Q1 this year, the bill would be at CZK 163,000 - a debt per capita. And of course, I could also revive today's negotiations on the publication that came out yesterday morning, from the Foundation's Anti-Corruption Fund, the Oligarch Time, where your former colleague Ondřej Závodský describes a lot of interesting things. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u69	Thank you. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová apologizes until the end of the day for health reasons. Mr Jakub Janda in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u70	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, if you expect me to talk here about the conflicts of interest of the current Prime Minister, his investigation into the grant fraud, the audit reports that could cause us to lose hundreds of millions of crowns, his pact with the communists in the 30th anniversary of the Velvet Revolution, I must disappoint you. Of course, these are serious problems and also the main reason why we are debating at this late hour whether the government should continue to have the confidence of this House. However, I, like the ODS, do not practice any anti-babish program as the Prime Minister tries to downplay criticism and denigrate his opponents that they can't do anything else. I concentrate on the concrete results of this government in the sports area, because - let us not be fooled - it has been six years since Andrej Babiš and his political movement have been involved in the management of this country and therefore had enough time and resources to apply their slogan "will be better" into practice. The Prime Minister can't make excuses for anything. I don't need to remind you that ČSSD sat in the previous government as well, so the responsibility for the sports area is the same. And it doesn't matter which one of them had their man in the position of Prime Minister or in the chair of Minister of Education, Youth and Sports or Minister of Finance. More specifically, it can be one athlete, whether professional or amateur, coach, club presidents, children, parents, just all who are waiting for some improvement in sports conditions in this country. Six years ago, sport was a cinderella of the government's budget and, unfortunately, it is still to this day. He deserved attention only in the success of our representatives and sport was only discussed at the highest political level in times of grant fraud. Is the situation different today? Can we come to the coaches today and ask them - is it better? Can we come to clubs or unions today and ask them - is it better? No, we can't. The reality of everyday life is that many clubs are on the brink of existential failure, youth has no place to sport, because the infrastructure is outdated, and top performances are served today mainly by athletes raised outside the system. Even though this government has 25 percent more resources than the government did six years ago. As with other agendas, this applies also to the tax revenue arising from sports activities. Nevertheless, athletes do not feel a 25 percent greater improvement. Indeed, we can read YES from the electoral programme - I quote: "Our aim is to include sport as a separate item in the state budget, significantly increase the state's expenditure on sport and set rules so that sport financing is fully transparent." The "first of all" appeared in the program statement in the last place, again as a Cinderella, again as something tolerated at the end of the series. However, it would not be symbolic of the last place, but of the fact that a separate budget item of the state budget for sport is not being carried out. The setting of transparent rules shall not be carried out. The increase of the State's expenditure on sport is taking place, however, in the sum of roughly equivalent fare discounts. And what, other than the amount of funding, is telling how much attention this government pays to the sports area? The sum of 7 billion. M.S.M.T. and about 1.4 billion. For other resorts, it says that sport has a slightly better position than fare discounts. Sad but real state of Czech sport. The hall is very busy.) During those six years, including the last year, it has not moved with any major challenge or reform, and again and again it is also about sport. There is still an over-the-boxed and over-regulated state that brings new and new responsibilities into the field of sport and literally annoys the everyday running of athletes. The government's announced plan to cut the bureaucracy by at least 10 percent has not touched the sport to this day. I'd like to ask President Okamura...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u71	I'd like us to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u72	Thank you. The high and complex tax burden affects both athletes themselves and profitable sports entities. Andrej Babiš doesn't even keep his own promises. How many times have we heard of a completely new tax law that would, among other things, simplify taxes and make it much easier for professional and top athletes who do not really know how to pay taxes or not to do so today. We can talk about low investment in infrastructure and stagnant education especially in connection with the ČSSD electoral programme. Here we read directly: "We will support investment in the modernisation and development of the infrastructure of sports sections, physical unity and municipalities. " Similarly, we will read in the government's programming statement about the modernisation and development of the sport infrastructure of local, regional, but also of country-wide importance. It was even more specific in its electoral programme of the ANO movement. After all, this talked about the whole pastportation of sports infrastructure in the Czech Republic and we will find nice dreams about the multi-functional hockey arena and football stadium in Brno Za Lužánkami, the gymnastics center in Prague, the spatial stadium in Mariánské Lázně, and yes, the popular theme of the Prime Minister, the dream of the speed skating hall Martina Sáblíková in Nové Město na Moravě, not least about the reconstruction of the mammoth bridge in Harrachov. And I, along with all those who are waiting for these promised projects, ask when we will wake up to reality. How long will we keep planning, fogging, putting strong statements in the evening news and false hopes for athletes? Has at least one of the planned projects moved? Is he stopping somewhere? The modernisation of Olympic sports centres such as Nymburk and Račice, which are also listed as objectives of the ANO movement, remained on paper. As well as the system of financing for the construction of sports infrastructure, which should at all be the basis for such strong statements, which the government promises in its favorable journeys around the regions. Where is the investment plan that will support the construction of all levels of sports infrastructure, which was mentioned here in the House almost as a spell? In reality we are growing generations that have nowhere to train, top coaches are leaving for foreign countries and stadiums, halls and, last but not least, jumping bridges are falling apart in front of our eyes and the expected passportization of sports infrastructure is not in sight. About the construction of multifunctional sports sites in every larger community, as the ANO movement promised us, not to mention. The government's programming statement also states: "We are preparing a new law that will reflect the current social importance of sport, including institutional legislative and financial security. " The eternally repeated promise of the current coalition and its follow-up concept Sport 2025, with the additional action plan approved in August last year logically talking about the need for a new legislative framework for sport, with the fact that the current regulation is inadequate and unsatisfactory. Other essential documents of a strategic nature, which are intended to give direction to the sport policy of the State, clearly say that a new law on sport needs to be established. Where is he? We have the end of June 2019 and the new law nowhere. And I wonder when we'll see it. But to be fair and fair, I'm not saying that things in the sports area haven't moved forward at all. A new sports agency was established, which was promised both in the ANO programme and in the Government's programming declaration, and which I also supported. However, I cannot ignore the many reservations I made to the proposal in my amendments. In summary, there were over 50 paragrafo changes, and neither, nor one, did you, the government coalitions, support it. I'll repeat at random in a nutshell... You didn't support either, Madame, don't yell at me. You shouted. So I will repeat at random what I have explained here in detail during the negotiations on the amendment to the Act on Sport Support. The position of the head of the agency is unfortunately defined, has broad powers, will operate with billions of sums, while the conditions for its selection are very vague. It is not precisely determined when the Government may call off the President of the Agency and when his duties will cease. The method of appointment of the two Vice-Presidents of the Agency is inappropriate. It would be much more balanced if one of the Vice-Presidents were elected by the House. The first parliamentary controls are inadequate, the Chamber of Deputies is heavily downgraded in control, and the senát is completely excluded. The granting of subsidies to persons who are not sports organisations should have been specified much better. I find it completely unfortunate that Ostrava has not been elected as the Agency's seat, not only because I wanted to express my support for my region, but North Moravia deserves the seat of some important institution of national importance, and last but not least this would have a positive effect on the functioning of the Agency. Too bad. [[2.00 hours]] Although the National Sports Agency was established, the sport did not move significantly. An ambitious and spectacular version of the amendment to the Sports Support Act in part of the sports register gives some hope for transparency, but what is the reality today? Sports registers that should have worked since 1. 1. 2016, still not working properly. Training of coaches, their motivation and involvement in primary schools and leisure centres is not done. Systematic training of talent, support for sports centres and youth centers and newly considered sport Olympic centres or regional sports centers shall not take place. It is the same with the mobility literacy mentioned in both the ČSSD electoral programme and the government's programming statement. Reality is different again. Moving literacy decreases as well as the physical fitness of the population. Where is the promised comprehensive motivational programme for preschool children? Where is the system of follow-up of organized sports activities for high school students to universities that were so widely discussed before the elections? Of course, these are all things that require a long-term solution. They cannot be corrected within one or two years. But the parties to the current government coalition are in power for the sixth year and the areas where we would notice significant improvements are slow. I must, of course, appreciate the contribution of Milan Hnilička, who has done a lot to get Czech sport back to world level. Unfortunately, one swallow does not make spring. It was you, Prime Minister and the government who left my fellow MP alone. Instead of the conceptual legislative initiative of the government level, you had him present a complicated law in a difficult role, and instead of helping the entire government service, you kept him waiting to deal with it. In conclusion, I have no confidence in you or your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u73	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Plaga. I would like to warn the Members that we will be here for a long time. And the more we interrupt each other, the longer we're here. So just to take that into account. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the second hour, the second minute, and I will try after this post, which I see as very unfair to the work of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in recent years, so I will put it back on the ground. The time that Mr Janda devoted to claims and other characteristics in the field of sport, so I used it to look up numbers. So investment from the central level in 2015 500 million CZK in sports infrastructure, 2016 800 million CZK. Yes, and here's the only place I'm gonna tell you the truth. Case in 2017, which doesn't please any of us. The subsidy case at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports led to the payment of only CZK 86 million in that year. But since then, and believe that the supervision of the Ministry of Education and the investigation of the case really does not make the job quite easy, so the Sport information system has been set up, which means electronic recording of the applications. And in 2018, CZK 1.21 billion was paid. And this year will be divided into a neglected, long-term neglected sports infrastructure of CZK 1.8 billion. And here's the point. The infrastructure isn't owned by the state. The infrastructure is owned by either the association or it is owned by cities and municipalities. So the state here puts its hand to the piece, doesn't disown it, and as I show from those numbers, it's almost four times, or if you want against 2015 it's 3.6 times this year. So not that nothing's going on, but it's happening, and it's important. And I say frankly, if officials at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports after 2017 had put aside pencils and were afraid to sign, for the case is still under investigation, no one could be surprised and nothing was done here. Yet we have taken these measures, we have set up the system, and there are nearly 300 buildings in the Republic that received the support in those two years. So that's one thing. As far as national sports centres are concerned, this, in turn, is a matter that goes on not for a single term, not for two parliamentary periods, but for a longer period. And you know that the problem of why he doesn't stop at Harrachov isn't at state level, but it's because there's no settled land. And I don't want to go into detail about how the property-settled downhill is right next to those bridges, and that the state should pay only those bridges, while profitable activities go to someone else, and that's both a frat house and some unions. It's for investment. I might as well continue in the case of Nymburk, where, in the case of Nymburk, the investment for CZK 2.7 billion, which is considered, is not in the state's property, so it is an integral condition that those associations that should participate there or should use the Nymburk, so they should use it and they should sign up to use it to the extent that this investment should pay off. It's very simple. It's not a state failure, it's not a state itself. If it's a state facility and state property, let's just talk about whether there's any linchivity. But the problems in those big investment cases you mentioned are not on the side of the state in the long term. This is not about me as the Minister of Education, and it will not be about Milan Hnilička or any other head of the National Sports Agency, the Ministry of Sport. If the elementary stuff isn't solved, the investment won't happen. As far as support is concerned, I'm going to repeat it because I haven't said it today, I said it yesterday, so repetition is the mother of wisdom. My club 2016, three thousand clubs, 310 million; 2019, 6,000 clubs, 1.4 billion directly to the municipalities for sports children. I just see an increase that's not negligible. It's five times. And the fact that in some municipalities, the increase in state aid leads to the municipality's cessation of support because it says "the state will take care of you" is not correct. Also the municipalities and local authorities were given funds and redirected funds from video lottery terminals and other things, which were to be directed, among other things, to the area of sport and its support. Some communities have done so, thank them for it. The state adds money to that. But there are communities that rely on the state. And again, the state can't solve everything from the central level. So the increase and the support to make any direct support for the clubs work, so here it is and it works. I'll say it again. Sports in school, that means children's mobility literacy, in 2019 thousands of participating schools. Yes, we do, including, or if I take primary school, we have four and a half thousand primary schools, and it's 40,000 children that we've involved. In 2016, it was only 160 schools and it was piloted, seven thousand children involved. Talented youth, a program where the state doesn't decide what the youth education system will be, but it's the sports union that has a sophisticated system, how it selects youth, how it works with it, how it works with coaches, how it works with methodology and other things. 324 million crowns went to Talented Youth, 900 million crowns this year. He who is primarily responsible for this, because he understands the sport, is not an official at the Ministry of Education. We create conditions at the Ministry of Education and the Agency will do the same, as will any Ministry of Sport. The conditions for the associations to develop the sport or the association where the activity takes place so that the activities are actually carried out there and they can set up. For this we create as a state, a central level, conditions. There's a triple increase in funds. And please, let's be fair. The responsibility is also that, and you know that, because you are a member of a union that has a lot of internal problems, alone between sections, that the problem is often within the Union, not at central level. As far as the reform of the system is concerned, it happened again during the last or year and a half, the change, occurred. 750 million crowns on the salaries of coaches. And I'll tell you that this year, for the first time in the program, when the unions claimed the funds almost automatically, they made a condition to put in the development program. To show the state how they want to work with the coaches. And what I said, how they pick the kids, how they work with her, where the centers are, and if they have a sophisticated system. Do not want to see what some of the project applications of some associations, where high volumes of funds are going, looked like. This means that - and this was really part of the evaluation and really, we were there hard. The fact that they don't get so much money if they don't even figure out how they're going to develop systemically supporting young people so that we can be successful again, even in collective sports, isn't the failure of the state again. Or at that point, we're not supposed to have unions, we're supposed to have sports sections, and we're supposed to have a huge Department of Sports where every sport has its own section? I don't think so. [[2.10 hours]] In terms of simplifying the administration, you just have to look at when the funds ran out, the first funds, even though they are subsidies, and when they came to the unions. And winter sports, and in history it wasn't, had resources at the end of the winter season. They can't get them on January 1st. I just can't pay off the state budget, no one can pay off if he's a god. But they had them the fastest, fastest in history. At least some means, either from program 1 - representation, 2 - talented youth, or 5 - organisation of sport. That means, please, please, let's be almost 2.10 hours in this time, let's be honest with each other. And I understand it's about barbecuing the government, but, please, we're not lying to each other here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u75	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Milan Hnilička. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u76	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, I didn't expect to talk. Kuba, through Mr President, it is not at all true what you have said here. I don't know who wrote this, but I think the guy who's in sports should be a little more careful. After a long time, this government has defined a lot of things here, and as the Minister has correctly calculated all the numbers here, I'm glad he did it for me, that I don't have to look for it now. And it's true, we pay a lot of attention to sports. You know, you've been with me in a few debates, whether on the subcommittee level for sports or in the media. You keep surprising me. This speech really, you did it again, and that we basically worked together on that law on promoting sport, and you know that we took into account a lot of your comments, so on that - sorry, so through Mr President. So don't be mad at me...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u77	Yes, I'm sorry, I didn't register it, because it's my fault after all. So I'm gonna ask you to address yourself through me, after all, you're not a member of the government. [[Yeah, okay.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u78	Well, I'm gonna cut it short. No one's listening anyway. So we have simply been at a lot of debates together, and through Mr President, in the final to improve the conditions in sport, which I believe we also had a consensus on, through the new agency, you have not raised your hand, my colleague through Mr President. I'm bohužel so. I'm so sorry. And what was said here today just isn't true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u79	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Stanjura. Mr Jakub Janda will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u80	I'd like to use the old Czech saying, "I judge you by myself." I'm not talking about Mr. Hnilička right now, it's a proverb. I don't know, Mr. Hnilička, how do you... [[- Through me, please.]] I was just about to say this - through the Vice-President - but do not insult my Members. Mr. Janda wrote it himself. Keep the "I don't know who wrote it" sentences. He wrote it himself. Maybe someone's texting you, I don't know, judging you by myself. And I didn't want to perform, but respect that Jakub Janda voted against. Don't tell him the kind of sentences you told him after the vote you told him after the vote: you'll see, nothing will go there now because you didn't support it. This is simply not part of the independent, declared independence of an impartial agency. First of all. And two. With all due respect for what the Minister of Education said, I was not in favour of the sport agenda being pulled out of your ministry, Minister through the Vice-President. If it's all as great as you described it to us, and I don't want to question it, I'm not, unlike Jakub Janda, I'm not prepared for this debate to say in detail - why did they take it from the resort? Do you remember the words of your party colleagues who said at this microphone that the Ministry of Education was unable to ensure the development of sport? How does that match the way you said earlier, how much better things got? You haven't convinced your own colleagues. He didn't. Your ministry has no confidence that it would be well, conceptually, long-term devoted to the Ministry of Education, and that is why a new agency was created. [[sport]] So first convince your colleagues, and then come to us. We were behind you in the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u81	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. In the general debate, Mr Václav Klaus will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u82	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm finally in prime time, it's 2:15 p.m., getting into a debate about government trust. I would take the liberty of returning the debate to substance, and that is trust or distrust of this government, and abandoning such a person who wrote his own speech or did not write it. I wrote it myself in this case. When the government came into existence, she didn't have my trust. I've already talked about this: I want to live in a country where... I could say that again boldly, because there hasn't been anything in all this time to convince me otherwise. I'll take it sideways today. When I take our main programming pillars of the Tricolore movement, the first is: Riches arise from work, not from subsidies and benefits. Here I must say that the government's social policy is truly Venezuelan - as the vox populi say - and subsidies are rampant. The government goes on a subsidy mule that runs through the devil, sometimes around the state's attorney's office, sometimes some other way. The government raises taxes, local taxes have increased. Now there's a proposal to raise the highway tax. One thing at a time. He's been patronizing interpreters, money exchangers, everybody. So it's not. Another pillar is: Let us defend the normal world. Here, when I take education, nothing happened except for a few cosmetic treatments. And I'm not gonna discuss it right now. It's the night that the reasons are. Totally devastating reform of regional education funding. You've been forced into a social democratic agenda. It costs tens of billions to go to schools, these cantors will more or less get to a very limited extent, or it is an instrument for increasing the number of teachers and bailing out half-empty schools. Ecology. Minister Brabec here, with the help of Mr Kalousek, has passed the law against people living in national parks. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch - it has been held here several times by the House - everything against smoking, fat meals, alcohol and so on. Watermen - we've been having fun here for weeks. This kind of political homosexualism was brought by your Member, Mrs Maxová, which you have now cleaned up in Brussels, because the vast majority of normal homosexuals do not require such a thing, and the law is frozen, but all those gender audits and other things are happily rampant in the Republic. And that's not our policy, that's not what we support. And our third pillar is: We live in the Czech Republic. You are voting for all EU regulations for life - GDPR, European arrest warrant - and then you are very surprised when the European audit comes to you, that is part of it, of course. Bagatelization of war crimes in Ukraine by Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček, and overall you contribute to weakening the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. Those are the main reasons why I don't want to support the government. And there's one more emotional plane. I don't think you have the power to rule anymore. You have the strong Czech Republic, the hat, the marketing, it's excellent, it's ironic, I say yes, I admire that, but you're more or less just covering up some attacks, you're throwing yourself into the debt of the electoral groups, and you're being bullied by social democracies. This is a social democratic government we're going to talk about. That is why, today, the Tricolore movement cannot express confidence to the government, but it must, on the contrary, express distrust. And now from the second keg. It's not a fight between Andrej Babiš and conscious citizens. There is also a small group of people who do not support the government, and yet very distant to bloodthirsty squabbling, to banners calling for some nationalization and so on. [[2.20 hours]] And then there's a moral aspect that I'd like to highlight. If anyone is a thief, the court decides in the Czech Republic, I hope. And until the court decides, decent people should avoid any attacks in this area. It's called democracy. If the government gives resignation, that is decided by the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, not the streets. It's called representative democracy again. So these are the principles that I would like us to defend democratically, whether we are extremely unlikable or our political opponent. A decent person also has mostly positive goals, e.g. I want a better government. Here she comes - Hamáček, Okamura, Výborný, Fiala, here we come. But you don't even want that. Or a second option - we want early elections. That's another positive solution. Well, a lot of political parties here are terrified that, for example, voters would have come to the fact that STAN belongs in camp or in nature and not in parliament, so we don't want it, and we don't want early elections either. So all you're gonna do here is merge into unconsciousness, but at the heart of my opinion, you're just doing useful idiots to the pirát, who, of course, are delighted to watch this, these debates that we're having here. I think that's what yesterday morning, afternoon, evening and tonight was all about. So that's about as much as I'd say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u83	Thank you. Mr Jan Lipavský will make a point of fact. [[It says, "No!]] Please leave the personal comments that are out loud so that we do not disturb ourselves so that we can continue the negotiations. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, while I am from the opposition, must respond to Mr Klaus' speech. I was interested in the idea with the national parks. You see, Mr President, those national parks are designed to protect nature and not to protect people. Well, that's such an essential detail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u85	Mr Václav Klaus, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u86	Mr Lipavský through the Vice-President, I am one of the people who think that people are part of nature. There's a lot of people living in the National Park in Sumava right now. I was there at several conferences with Mr. Zahradník from my former party. And there was a very negative acceptance of what the Czech Parliament and against the will of the South Bohemia Region and Plzeňský pushed through there. I took the liberty of expressing myself here. I'm still on that side, so maybe I don't support this government either. Well, that's about as much as I'd explain in some way pedagogically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u87	We are going back to the general debate. Mrs Majerová will perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u88	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague here, former speaker Václav Klaus, spoke for the Czechs, so I will be behind Moravia and Silesia, so far there are only two of us. The true art of politics and life is to seek something good even in the worst possible. But is there anything good about this leftist government of social engineering? Is there anything good about a government that will approve a budget deficit of 40 billion at a time of economic growth? Is there anything good about a government that constantly restricts, commands, prohibits and regulates the lives of citizens? To the government that made businessmen hostage, to the teachers and pupils of guinea pigs in a senseless project of total inclusion? A government that challenges traditional conservative values that are economically active and does not help the needy? Our people and companies work hard. They're successful, they pay high taxes, and for that, they demand nothing more than that the government doesn't throw a stick at them. And this government will not come up with this money, with taxpayers' money, but it is dependent on EU subsidies, and even the Prime Minister is dependent on them. And so I could go on for another ten minutes. I did not support the government when it was formed, and it is therefore no surprise that I will not support it in today's vote. As a Member of the Tricolore, I will always constructively promote our programme across the House. I will always defend the conservative values, the interests of our families and our citizens, the sovereignty of our country. We will promote quality and depolitical education and education, low taxes and a small state. The state that is meant to serve people, not to complicate their lives, as the current government is doing. As Ronald Reagan once said, the first duty of government is to protect people, not to run their lives. And that's the kind of government I'm gonna support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u89	Thank you, Madame. Next in line is Mr Martin Kupka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u90	Mr President, honourable members of the government, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, actually yesterday morning, not this morning, yesterday morning, Andrej Babiš spoke at the very beginning and mentioned that the opposition wanted to destabilize the state. It sounded like a threat, it reminded the language of a well-known Red Law article by Losers and vigilantes. That language really reminds me of that. He admitted that this is an entirely relevant political instrument and that this can be expected from the opposition. But Andrej Babiš has made another strong statement this week. He mentioned that the more money we pump, the more dissatisfied people are. That may be less chilly, but at the same time the most appropriate shortcut about this government. Scary in that it also resembles the same language I was talking about a while ago. People expect the government to be able to solve major problems from health care to taxes, pension reform, for example. after administration. The Prime Minister is complaining that despite all the pumping, people are demonstrating. Probably, or certainly, because the government does not actually offer systemic solutions. It offers distribution, distribution, and that, of course, is not enough. And there's a catch. I'm going to mention one more important number that has been said here today to highlight it, and it concerns pensions, because we are still hearing that the government has succeeded in adding pensioners. That's good. Any sensible government would do that. But if we looked at the ratio - and this is the relevant indicator - with the ratio relative to the average wage, did the ratio go up or down in the last seven years? bohužel, he's klesnout. He's down four percentage points. And that is an important report, and that means what pensioners can actually afford at the moment. I mean, is he better? Well, in my opinion and in the court of many people, it's not better. It's not, because just the concept of pumping and pumping just doesn't affect the whole policy. And she can't be prosecuted. There can be no government in the Czech Republic about this. If the government really wants to improve the conditions, it has to address the system, it has to deal with it in order to do something systemically in key areas, and that is not going to work. The government's great priority is in many places - Digital Czech Republic and simpler administration. What's the truth? Well, sad again, I'm afraid. Officials are increasing. There have been 7,000 officials in the last six years. Those are the official Home Office numbers. It's a whole small town. And it's more than CZK 4 billion a year from the state register. It is evident that bureaucratization and bureaucracy are rampant and paperwork is increasing. There are increasing administrative barriers for people who want to do business, for people who want to live normally. [[2.30 hours]] We have completely proven that we have fallen into digitalisation as an important tool for debyrocratization during the period of ANO's operation in Czech politics. Even the Supreme Audit Office stated - I quote literally: "In the area of the development of digital public services, the Czech Republic continues to lag significantly behind among the countries of the European Union. The level of online contact between public authorities and citizens is one of the lowest in the European Union.' This is the 2018 report of the Supreme Audit Office, i.e. fresh data. Digital Czechia is undoubtedly a good plan and an attractive marketing brand. That's commendation. That's not an innuendo. But what has the citizen felt so far? What did he feel for himself? Objectively, I'm afraid it wasn't much. We certainly don't want it to go on. That is why, after all, a number of Members across the House have embarked on a parliamentary initiative to create a digital institution, or law on the right of a citizen to digital service. And what do we learn now? That the Ministry of the Interior resort, instead of helping the world and helping the Digital Czech Republic, brakes or torpedoes important digital institutions. These are not the only stains on the beauty of the Digital Czech Republic. Then there are shifted eIncompetents, a mess in IT systems at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. Then there's NEN. It's not that much of a stain. It's a straight crater in the Digital Czech Republic. The government writes in its programme how it wants to simplify public procurement, and then gives us a failing public procurement system. So in many other cases, as well as in this - a nice brand, Digital Czechia, there is not much behind it yet for citizens. Like when you go to open the door and no one there. It is true that the Czech Republic really needs state reform. It just can't be promises, and it has to be reflected in life. So far, for example, it ends with the conclusion again by the Supreme Audit Office that a serious problem for better governance is a burden on government regulation. It doesn't shrink, but it's still growing. And it can't be said that the old ODS governments are responsible, as we often hear. The truth is that the state's legal apparatus is getting more and more complicated. The government is saying how it wants to push for an acceleration in the construction process. But when it comes to action, it turns out the opposite. The amendment to the construction law after 2018 has fundamentally complicated the life of the builders. Yes, and that was not the work of civil democrats or the present right. That was the secretary's job for YES. We cannot so believe the honesty of the government that it wants to do something about the construction process when concrete proposals, concrete steps proposed by opposition parties, which in principle offer real change for the better, are systematically killing. This is a number of compelling reasons why this government of marketing deception is not really to be trusted. It does not bring real and competent solutions to serious problems. What, though, do I think, does he fail most? That's the promised better style of politics. That's really all that's left of being a cartoon. No government has experienced such a conflict of interest with its Prime Minister, has experienced so many cases, has experienced so many police searches, has experienced so many outrageous statements, lies and half-truths. And no one has shamed and humiliated a smaller coalition partner like this government. I think these are all very valid reasons for a clear expression of distrust by this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u91	Thank you. Next up, Mr Vít Kaňkovský is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u92	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Originally, I wanted to comment on two areas, two departments that I devote myself to here in the House, which means social policy and health care. However, I must say that there has been quite a lot of talk about social policy during the whole of yesterday's and part of today, so I will only deal with the health sector in my contribution. There may be only one sentence to social policy. If I had to take the entire government statement on social policy point by point, I would have to say, in controversy with Minister Maláčová, that the tasks that have been accomplished and that remain of Minister Maláčová, there are many more that are to be solved. Unfortunately, her performance sounded like the opposite. As far as healthcare is concerned, I must say that I agree with Minister Vojtěch, who has had one of the longest speeches here, in many respects. I must say that I appreciate the fact that he is a minister with a wide range and that he is a person who is really trying to devote himself to health. Unfortunately, and I will be critical, I cannot agree with the way he has set priorities in his resort. He has, of course, introduced us to a number of things. He had this performance really, really long and he mentioned a lot and a lot of success there that had already been solved. Unfortunately, however, the most important things that are bothering us in the health sector at the moment, and it does not only bother us as paramedics, because we are only those who are trying to work for patients in the health sector, but, as a result, we do not quite meet the Minister there. I'll mention the most important ones. We need two pillars in order for health care to work in our country for the long term. One is stable funding and the other is staff stability. Both of these areas are volatile in our country. While the stability of finance seems to be currently being arranged in health care, we all know that as the cost of new types of treatment increases sharply, especially for biological treatment and some new instruments and technologies, so that if we do not take significant steps in the long term to change the financing of health care, health is unfinanceable. And that's not what the current Department of Health is aware of. And unfortunately, I don't think this government is aware of that either. When else than in the period of economic growth should we come up with a fundamental change in the financing of Czech health care? When else than in the period of economic growth should we discuss what changes to make to ensure that the financing of the Czech health care is sustainable in the long term? And, of course, the staff stability has something to do with the funding, even if it isn't quite direct. If something can fundamentally distract Czech health care, and unfortunately it is already fluctuating it, it is a lack of personnel, both for doctors and nurses and some other professions. And this is an area that the Minister should take quite a priority on. I'm not saying he doesn't pay attention to her at all. He introduced some grant programs here regarding the greater availability of dentists and practitioners, but unfortunately it is still just a drop in the sea. I am convinced that if the Ministry of Health does not really start to deal with this with the utmost urgency, the availability of health care will continue to deteriorate. I'm from the county of the Highlands. I could show you how the availability of some types of health care in this region, which is in the middle of our Republic, is getting worse today. For example, rheumatology care. The average patient in the Vysočina Region is waiting for the first treatment from a rheumatologist for six months. There isn't even a rheumatologist in some districts nowadays. If we were to talk about primary care, the care of practitioners for both adults and children and adolescents, we also have a number of large municipalities and cities where there is no pediatrician at the moment. And I could go on. In conclusion, I won't forgive one more gloss for today's speech by the Minister here in the House, or I'll have to say yesterday. The minister here presented as a great success the reform of primary care. I must say for myself that this is one of the ways that would definitely help us in Czech health. So the target is correct. Unfortunately, the implementation that the Minister is planning to reform primary care, I have to put four minuses in the terminology of the upcoming report card. [[2.40 hours]] If, for such an important reform as the reform of primary care is, the minister for the team that is discussing this change is not part of it, the Czech Medical Chamber is not invited there, representatives of the Association of Outpatient Specialists are not invited there, the whole project is basically doomed to failure. The reform of primary care really can be a crucial moment in the fact that we can survive the personnel crisis we are experiencing today in some way, but all important segments must agree on it. It cannot only be discussed with practical doctors, even if it affects them most. But it's going to touch all the other segments. And I am at all surprised to the Minister that some of the other meetings he has at the Ministry are also trying to crowd out some professional organisations. I think it doesn't make sense, because it's gonna get him in trouble. That means, maybe that's an appeal towards the Ministry of Health. Every change needs to be discussed with the segments concerned. That's the only way it can bring success. Finally, I would like to say that, like other members of the KDU-ČSL, not only in terms of what is happening in the Czech health sector, but I would be much more critical of the other areas, especially social policy, I cannot give this government confidence and I will vote in favour of the government's distrust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Tomáš Martínek is next in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u94	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put a few misleading information to the attention of the representatives of the government. I would be the first to focus on inaccurate information on old-age pensions. I would like to point out that the valorisation itself increased pensions by approximately CZK 573 this year. The increase in average income beyond automatic valorisation, which supported all parliamentary parties including the Pirates, was a little over 300 CZK. On the contrary, the government, headed by YES, rejected opposition proposals that could increase pensions even further. That is why, under Prime Minister Babiš's government, pensions have reached the lowest level compared to the average wage in the entire history of the Czech Republic, below 40%, namely only 36%, as Minister Maláčová rightly mentioned. Otherwise, I find Mrs. Schillerová to be a little hypocritical to say something about pushed proposals. I am sorry, but I accept that the government movement only in order to say that the opposition is not pushing its proposals, it also rejects the high-quality opposition proposals that it then proposes. As pirát, we behave constructively, and on the example of our proposal to extend the deadline for submitting an electronic tax return, I want to say that we do not mind that the same proposal is now being put forward by the government. On the contrary, we're glad. We don't need to abuse these gestures in public appearances. The main thing is to improve the lives of citizens of the Czech Republic. Likewise, regarding the tax on digital services of multinational corporations, I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance, following my appeal to its representative at the February Sub-Committee on the Digital Economy, began to prepare national legislation following the model of France or Austria. The final form will certainly be addressed, but I hope it will help to level the tax inequalities of foreign and Czech companies, where many foreign companies, thanks to aggressive tax optimization, pay significantly less in taxes in the Czech Republic than Czech companies. Furthermore, if Prime Minister Babiš mentions respect for the results of democratic elections, it would be appropriate for members of his movement to respect them, too, to follow the relative key that has long been in force here in the Chamber of Deputies when elected, for example, to the ČTK Council. They should not support conflicting SPD candidates when the outcome of the elections does not match that. On the contrary, it should demonstrate that it respects the democratic results of the elections and recommends to its Members to vote for an independent expert proposed by more than one MP, including the pirát, who, according to election results, are to be able to nominate one member. Democracy helps ensure prosperity, security and social security for the citizens of this country. Don't kill her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next is Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I wish you all a lovely morning. Ladies and gentlemen, this government did not have the confidence of the members of the SPD a year ago at the time of its creation, and it will not have it today. The reasons are purely material. The activity of most government ministries is inadequate and sometimes counterproductive in relation to the interests of the state and citizens. If I speak for the social policy department controlled by social democracy, there are more than enough grounds for distrust. I'll mention only the most important ones. For example, Minister Maláčová said at the assembly of the administrative unions in March that the Czech Republic does not need and can neither properly prepare it, which is both false and grossly offensive to our citizens and many experts who have this knowledge and ability and repeatedly draw attention to the unsustainableness of the pension system. This statement was made despite the fact that the actual calculations of the MPSV itself and the Government's National Budget Board show that without major reform changes, our pension system will not be functional. It is extremely irresponsible especially to the middle and young generation. Politicians and governments, who do not think systemically ahead in such key matters of public interest and refuse to act, should not be in top executive positions. We all have a good memory of the recent debate on the lack of finance for our social services, including the failure to comply with and question the House's resolutions by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. The inability and unwillingness to look here quickly and responsibly for a system solution is also striking and unsustainable. This government is approaching half its term of office and, for example, the situation of low-income pensioners and hundreds of thousands of people in debt and execution traps is also not satisfactorily addressed. We still don't have a long promised law on social housing here. On the subject of the promised increase in parental contribution, the Minister has already shown so much pirouet that it would probably succeed very well in some recreational figure skating competition. Unfortunately, public disputes between Minister Maláčová and Minister of Finance Schillerová have already become a sad folklore of our political scene. I could talk about various other shortcomings and mistakes in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs department for even longer, but these are probably the most important ones. Social policy is a fundamental pillar of all public policies and public services and, as such, is to be managed and managed. This is not the case today, and therefore the current government cannot have our trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u97	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, honored public, I wish you good morning. I've been thinking about calling in here and asking for the Prime Minister's presence, but I'm not gonna do it because it's really late. However, allow me to say in at least a few minutes some important reasons which lead me to express my distrust of this government and vote in favour of the proposal tabled by the opposition parties. You often, Prime Minister, talk about how better it will be. You had it on your billboards, your electoral passwords - but what does that mean, it gets better? That the state budget's spending will rise? That we would measure the value of money for everyone in society? That you then wonder that even though you are adding to some groups of residents, they are still not satisfied? Surely all life circumstances and values of man cannot be expressed only by the value of money. Yet, even if we evaluate the last years of your government, and you've been ruling for a year and three quarters, are some groups of people really better off with their optics? There's been a lot of talk here about pensions. I've already made my point at this meeting today, but let's ask ourselves, do mothers, women who have spent their whole lives taking care of children and are retired today feel better? They don't! The scissors are still open. Nothing has changed in this matter at all. When we suggested here last year that each of these moms add 500 crowns a month for each child raised, you rejected this proposal. These women are 1.2 million and have a monthly lower pension of CZK 1,800 than the average. Widows and widowers are even worse off, they are 600,000 and have an average lower pension of approximately CZK 2,400. Unfortunately, once again, your government has done nothing for these people. And I could go on like this. [[2.50 hours]] You wrote a long status on your Facebook profile last Sunday about who your heroes are. You even named nurses there, but somehow you forgot about nurses in social services. I'll get back to them. You only see what you want to see and say what you want to say. So it is also in the discussion when you have your graphs, your numbers. But you can't just run away from the truth. A certain part of the public that I sometimes discuss, which supports you, and in many cases they are educated, hardworking, honest people, so they use one such strange argument and say by being rich, so you don't have to steal or cheat anymore. But it's just as logical as if we were saying about people who aren't rich, who are poor, that they have to steal. I was surprised by your statement at European level this week, when you said before the European Council that you do not want and do not have to deal with what will happen in 2050 in 31 years. You had on your billboards so the kids wouldn't have to be ashamed of us. Who's a responsible politician for if not for future generations? And it is from the climate point of view that this is the greatest threat that threatens the life of future generations here in the Czech Republic and globally in the world. It is the biggest challenge for us, for politicians, because last year, 2018 was the record hottest year in the Czech Republic since we have thermometers and when we measure. If we don't do something about this, we're gonna be in big trouble. And this, of course, has to do with whether we can reduce emissions, if we can move towards a balanced emission balance, if we can have clean resources, renewables, a reasonably set policy in this area. I don't see these steps in your legislation yet. I don't see household support here, so that these households can buy photovoltaics, solar systems, heat pumps for reasonable support from the state, to save money, if they make a little money. I really don't see that here. You often talk about your role models being Masaryk or Baťa. That is what politicians and statesmen and entrepreneurs were able to think about the future. Thanks to them, we have this state. And thanks to them, when we come to Zlín and the surrounding area, we see the results of these people's work. People also protest against you, among other things, that they also resent the style of your politics and communication when I talk to them. They are bothered by the rudeness and the fact that you actually despise, you have made a contemptible statement about the fact that these people are meeting. After all, your contract with the citizens you've given isn't a blank check that ends with the polls closing, and now four years can be done in this state whatever it takes. These people are expressing some disapproval of the style. And I've had a lot of meetings where communication was rude, disrespectful on your part. A fellow member of your movement, which I respect, once told me, "You have to get used to it, it's just the way it is. And I confess, I don't want to get used to this kind of communication. Let me quote one page from the book that was premiered and baptized yesterday morning, because you, too, quoted your time here five or six years ago from a similar book from the same publishing house to the address of Miroslav Kalousek, which I don't want to defend at all. But I just want to use and bring the public closer to the situation from a man who worked closely with you for four years at the Ministry of Finance, and he was a deputy, whom you, at one time, praised quite strongly and publicly, what good work he did in regulating gambling, in better administration of state property - Ondřej Závodský. Let me quote from page 127. "A large part of Babiš's people are also inspired by his boss's vocabulary. As one colleague once said after a meeting: 'He said almost nothing, it was either sexual organs or prepositions and clutches.' Some other colleagues wrote down the best statements. After leaving a colleague who was busy writing, I asked him to make me an elevator, like The Best of Babiš. So I say at random: 'Ta Grässleová is such a pi... that she can't even see at the tip of her nose.' Then he yelled at me, 'Your pi... Belobradok probably thinks he knows what it's like, but you don't even know what you're doing in your brotherhood, when you're out of your ass, mainly because you're going to the point, assholes!' Or: 'The Kalúsek, the Luddish trash, he has, the dickhead, the nine-milliard with Hava in the cocoon bank, the criminal in there might just go to his fucking account, but he can drive a wheel over him, because if he chooses, they'd shut him down, a fucking dickhead.''"
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u99	Dear Member, are you sure this is an uplifting text for this Chamber of Deputies and it makes any deeper sense that you are reading this to us?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u100	It does, Mr President of this House. I am quoting how the President of your movement, the Prime Minister of this state, has spoken in the meetings and in the meetings of the government and other bodies. I think it makes sense, and it's pretty deep.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u101	I'll ask you to do it in a different way. It's not happening here at the microphone. If this is happening elsewhere, not here in this Chamber of Deputies. Not when I'm chairing. Thank you for agreeing. I assume you're done with the quote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u102	The quote's over. It's gonna be another one, probably not that rough. "One thing is that other billionaires also speak similarly and that they seem to somehow let off steam from the boiler of stress and tension. The problem is that their deity is imitated by young minions who do not want to be left behind even in a ventilated dictionary. One day, I received documents from the House from an assistant Member or just a party handler, and he started explaining the matter to me in Babišův's vocabulary, so I fired him to leave, and when he learned to speak differently than a criminal in the Waldense Court, let him come explain it to me. The problem, however, is that this is the Prime Minister's way of speaking, and that's what's wrong with throwing him away. And it infects individuals who imitate him. In my day, when Babiš, the Minister of Finance and Chovanec, formerly a greengrocer, argued about something, then the Minister of the Interior and his suppressed 'voe' at the end of the sentence, I wondered how he must look at us abroad and how some prime politicians must turn to their graves. Remember that Babiš is a successor to the Prime Minister's office to people like Alois Eliáš, one of the greatest heroes of the domestic resistance, a man to whom we owe our freedom. And now we have a primitive who can't express an idea without the use of genitals in a sentence." - So many quotes from this book that was published yesterday morning. I'm getting close to my end. And I'd like to touch some facts here, if you don't mind. The Prime Minister, then as the chair of the movement and leader, issued a contract with citizens before the elections in 2017. There are a lot of fluent phrases, such as: "I want to assure you that we will try to build a successful country where our children will want to live and work and be proud of." I don't know if in 2050, when the temperature here is averaged four degrees higher, they'll be proud of this country and these policies. In point one: "I will manage the government with care of a proper economy." At point two, "I'll try to solve your daily problems." I don't know how social services workers look at it these days. Point three: "And protect the freedom and dignity of every man." I'm not quite sure that the communication of the Prime Minister's words protects everyone's freedom and dignity. And I could go on like this. And then it is also worth looking into the year-old document of the Czech Government's programming declaration. It's an interesting reading. I've just picked a few moments at random that are worth a certain recap. There's been a rather intense debate about pension reform here today around midnight. And when we look at page two, "First of all, we're going to bring in a new Linen Construction Act." There's never been a government law like that in the House. This was dealt with by a parliamentary proposal across the parliamentary parties. Page three: "We will protect the soil as the basis of our natural wealth from decay and erosion. We need to keep water in the landscape as much as possible." When we look today, the Ministry of Environment gives the green stop to the best land we have in the Czech Republic, for the industrial zone at a time when we have the lowest unemployment, we have empty other industrial zones, we have empty brownfields and other areas. The same Ministry gives the green light to build a large gravel-picking bearing in the Uherský Ostrov site at the expense of protecting the groundwater. [[3.00 hours]] Point Finance and State Management on page five: "We place emphasis on increasing investment and the efficient drawing of resources and investment from the EU. We will support an increase in pensions and also salaries for selected professions." That's what's going on. Thank you. For example, teachers and workers in social services. This is happening, but only partially, and a lot of these people don't know at the end of the year what they're gonna get paid out of. Page seven: "We commit ourselves to actively supporting working families with children through tax discounts. " Last year, this proposal in the House was included in the package. Neither of these proposals to increase the discount went through. If we look further, there is the question of the EET, where it is said that further expansion of the EET phase will take place after a thorough analysis, including the fulfilment of the Constitutional Court's finding. The Constitutional Court finds, among other things, that there is an Austrian model in which business entities are fully exempted from the similar EET regime up to approximately CZK 250,000. Page 16: "We will adopt rules for financing the regional transport infrastructure - Road II. and III. classes - through the budget of the SFDI to provide funds of CZK 4 billion per year for them." This proposal, which meets exactly what the government's statement here says, was made - about two months ago in the government. The government gave him a negative opinion. No government proposal has been put forward by the government on this matter. Page 17: "We will place emphasis on road safety. " Unfortunately, we're growing the number of deaths last year. And I could go on and on like this. There was talk of culture today. And when I look at page 27, it's clearly stated here: "We're raising the Ministry of Culture's budget." I don't know how serious you are, but the culture for next year has minus CZK 423 million compared to the budget this year. Why are you writing this if it's not true? There's a chapter in Dry on page 37. There's no money for landscaping. The overhang of requests by municipalities is roughly threefold than what is being allocated there today. Farmers apply for the first time this year in the case of irrigation subsidies and are not satisfied in full for the first time this year. That hasn't happened in the past. And I could go on like this. And here I have a note on page 39 of the Environment chapter - higher soil protection against erosion. We talked about this with Minister Brabc today. And I understand it's complicated. But we've been waiting three and a half years for an anti-erotic decree. There are many reasons, whether the factual ones in terms of failing to fulfil their own promises and resolutions, up to those of communication, principle - how our prime minister works, how he behaves and so on - why I cannot express my confidence in this government either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u103	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the Chancellor, we have decided to give the last ten minutes, who is interested in buying some refreshments. And with respect to the staff who really had a tough day today, we would have closed down the premises. So if anybody else wants to buy a drink, like, ten minutes, and then I decided to close them down. Well, let's hope our debate isn't much longer. [[A Member of Kalousek is reporting for the floor.]] A point of fact, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just very briefly and very politely. I have heard a few quotes from what Mr. Ondřej Závodský, former Deputy Minister of Finance, has said to such a fund, which he sometimes writes on a custom basis. Maybe it's true, maybe it's not. However, I would like to say to this House that I have 21 years in the body of a Member and eight years of a civil servant. And that one of the basic ethics of a civil servant is by no means to talk about what I've experienced in that office, what I've heard in the meetings, anywhere. If Mr. Ondřej Závodský, if it were so unbearable for him at the time when he was Deputy Minister Babiš, that he would just leave and publish it, I would probably still understand. But he didn't release it until he was fired. Until then, he's put up with it. You just don't do that! Please, it's gross! Whoever does this to anyone. If we are to maintain minimum standards of political representation and state administration behavior, we simply must not tolerate this! That's just not what you do, that's rude. If that were true a thousand times, I don't think anyone can suspect me of sympathy for the Minister of Finance, Babiš, but I would never tolerate this to any civil servant! Because it's a violation of all the ethical rules we put on the administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u105	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Another factual point, Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u106	Thank you. I was wondering if I should quote these things here. However, it is a public book published by the Foundation against Corruption. But now, in fact, what Mr Kalousek has just said through Mr President. Honored colleague, I can't agree with you here. Because if what you're saying is true, the public will never know what was going on near, for example, the German Chancellor. We would not have learned things that were happening here, for example, in times of totalitarianism, when there were close co-workers of ministers, prime ministers, presidents. I don't think it's possible to apply and demand the principle that you're presenting here. At that point, we'd just say, what's going on where it's going, so the public's never gonna know? Don't you find that strange? I think the weird thing is that things like this happen at all. I think that just a normal person, who is not only a minister, but who is in a job, a family, and so on, is supposed to express himself within normal limits. I'm a man from the village, I don't have a problem going any closer to getting a word out of you sometimes. But everything has its limits. Here I think that the limits are obviously coming to an end when we set other standards, which part of the public is already starting to take on as a very common way of communicating. It's not about the words. It's about the attitude towards this guy, the way I show him how I feel about him, how I despise him and all that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u107	Thank you. I squeezed it late, but we fit in two minutes. The President Kalousek wants to respond with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u108	I don't want to drag it out. Through the President, Mr Jurečka, I did not blame you for quoting from open sources. I just wanted to tell this House that we should insist on some ethics of civil servants. That's just where loyalty belongs. I can leave the place and then say it, but I can't start saying it when I was fired. You just don't do that, that's unfair. And the fact that we didn't know anything. Well, of course it's not the government officials' job to talk to their bosses. I was a close associate of Josef Lux when you were in kindergarten. If I'd told you everything we've been through, I'd have really demoted it to you. And I don't feel like I have the right. I'm just not gonna say a sentence because I have the ethics of a former civil servant. And I call upon the ethics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u109	Thank you. Next up, Mr Dominik Feri is entered into the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, dear colleagues. I think we all want to get some sleep. There's nothing like sleeping pink, not that I know it. But as a member of the Constitutional Legal Committee, I have to raise one subject that stands out in some way among the dozens of different topics that have been raised here over the past few hours, and that is the topic of the independence of justice. This subject is of particular importance because it was precisely the position of state prosecutors who put tens of thousands of people on the streets and raised fears that have not yet been satisfactorily dispersed. And one of the reasons why I will vote in favour of this government is that it simply approaches the issue of the independence of justice through technocratic means. People, the public, but also the opposition to strengthen the position of state's leaders, so the government will look at it, make some balance sheets and say, "Let's go edit some sections." Let's write a paragrafo text, make a explanatory statement and send it to Parliament. But she's completely missing the symbolic side, or the side of some sort of consensual gesture. This means that perhaps the amendment should not be made to Parliament by the Minister who says here today: I have been involved in the past, I have heard some wiretaps, it concerns some of you, I will not name them. It's just one thing for many. Let's leave it aside about some affection for the Castle, the sympathy for the Prime Minister. For this reason, I would like to mention that they are here - it is not just one draft, there are more. There's one draft before the government. The other two are already in the House system. And I would very much argue that if the government wants to take some kind of helpful step, whatever happens today, how it's going to turn out, it's going to be for these drafts to be discussed together. It is simply not possible to say, so we will adjust the disciplinary procedure in some way, which means that the lead prosecutor will be able to be called off only on the basis of the imposition of disciplinary measures in disciplinary proceedings by the disciplinary senate, but that it will simply be presented across, that it will be presented as far as possible by all the parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, and that it will simply meet the demands of the opposition and the civil public. Because the independence of justice is not just a section, but it is a very important part of the citizens' faith and trust in a democratic rule of law. And that is certainly not the case that will be presented only by the government by the person of Secretary Benešová. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u111	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mrs Miroslava Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wish everyone a good early morning and let me mention, at least a few words, what I consider most important is why this meeting has been convened to voice distrust to the government. I will try to be as brief as possible, but I want to name what I think is important and at the same time disprove some of the things that have been said here today by the Prime Minister. First of all, then. I don't think it can be tolerated to lead the country, led by an associate of St.B. Last year, Andrej Babiš lost despite what he said, a key dispute with the Bratislava Constitutional Court due to his record in the ties of State Security. The Constitutional Court annulled all previous decisions of the lower courts and the Czech Prime Minister is still registered as Agent Bureš. vloni December, too, he failed at the European Court of Human Rights, which dismissed his action against Slovakia for the sake of registration in State Security. At the same time, it was the first time a member of the Czech Government even judged on this matter at international level. After the decision of the Bratislava Constitutional Court, Slovak courts can no longer rely on the key witnesses of Andrej Babiš, i.e. the management officers of the StB, but just as the decision of the Constitutional Court shows, they will have to draw more from the documentary evidence collected in the Bratislava Institute of National Pamäti. This is the first key reason why Andrej Babiš should not be Prime Minister and why I will vote in favour of distrusting this government. Second thing. Andrej Babiš is a criminally prosecuted prime minister. In January 2018, the House issued Andrej Babiš for the second time for criminal prosecution. Less than a year ago, this was the first time a government led by a criminally prosecuted prime minister had been put in trust in a political history. It stopped paying previously for a perfectly obvious presumption of guilt for politicians. The claims on the government's profile against the past, as Andrej Babiš said at the time, the age of the matrix, fell sharply. Today ministers, or even Prime Minister, do not resign due to serious suspicions of committing crime, but on the contrary, copying in dissertations or similar works is considered to be the greatest to deadly sin. The third point I want to mention is a conflict of interest. Last December 13, the European Parliament voted for the first time in political history on the problems of Czech politics. By a overwhelming majority of 434 votes, 80% of the votes present, he adopted a resolution calling on the European Commission to intervene against Babišův's conflict of interest and demanded that the subsidies for Agrofert be discontinued. Only ANO and KSČM representatives defended the Prime Minister from Czech MEPs. Fourth reason. The government of Andrej Babiš rests on the Communist Party. When Bohuslav Sobotka considered the post-election cooperation with the Communists in February 2017, Andrej Babiš described his efforts as follows: Mr Sobotka will do anything to be re-elected as Prime Minister, and he will be calmly united with the devil. So in the end, Mr. Andrej Babiš himself and for the first time in the history of the post-November, so communists, among whom there are still many professors not only of Husákův's regime, but also of Clement Gottwald, have made government possible. The Clement Gottwald, at whose orders she was hanged exactly 69 years ago on June 27, 1950, Dr. Milada Horáková. The fifth reason why Andrej Babiš is not to be Prime Minister and why this government is to be distrusted. It is a record state repression committed by this government on Czech citizens. Andrej Babiš raised the country's repression to a level unprecedented after November. It makes life more difficult for businessmen and small entrepreneurs, whom it branded as cheaters. Business has never been sewn up by such an increase in administrative duties, costs, draconian sanctions, even for minor offences and record number of controls. It is no wonder the dissatisfaction of many businessmen when it comes out that the government is generously supporting large companies at the expense of small ones, thereby distorting the market. The direct result of the state's repressive approach is the closure of 1,600, some data say 2,000, other data say, small shops in rural areas only in 2017 and 2018, with the latest drop for them being the introduction of EET. It is not true that this specific online system of Croatian provenance is established in most European countries. We have recently voted here that this EET system will extend to another 800 professions, such as camel breeders or those who want to do business in the sea fishing sector. So, after those who have already been exposed to this practice of this government, i.e. traders, innkeepers, craftsmen, all seamstresses, carpenters, hairdressers, will now be forced into the last crown of taxes and draconian fines to do their utmost, because it is necessary to have enough money for subsidies for the Prime Minister. [[3.20 hours]] The sixth reason, and this was mentioned here, I think, by Mr Jurečka, is the contract of Andrej Babiš with the citizens, which he issued before the elections and from which there was virtually no stone left on the stone, left nothing. Among other things, he promised that - now I will quote: "I promise to make life harder for corrupters and people who are sucking up public funds and thus your taxes," the Prime Minister then told citizens before the elections, the parliamentary elections in 2017. In practice, it seems that today the police are spreading an extensive corruption case YES in Brno, a sponsor of the ANO movement was investigated by Mr David Rusňák due to unauthorized access to police databases, received a conditional sentence. The investigation is Andrej Babiš, currently the police are interfering with Jaroslava Jermanová's government, and the Minister of Health, as we learn, has been getting some special compromising materials or information using some really weird people who have been allowed to move in his presence. Therefore, if the Prime Minister has promised to make life harder for all those who are sucking up public funds, then it must be added that the highest bidder is the beneficiary of subsidies for Agrofert, to whom additional billions of tax concessions and public procurement are generated each year. Sometimes it is also likely to draw on the edge of the law, as the draft audit of the European Commission shows. Police and prosecutors have already taken an interest in suspicious machinations with the distribution of the holding's subsidies. From 2014 to 2017, when Andrej Babiš served as Minister of Finance, Agrofert received a total of 6.8 billion in subsidies. Crowns. Against the previous period, his grant income doubled. Last year's annual report is not yet available, but it can be concluded that Agrofert collected about 9 billion when its owner was a member of the government. CZK only on subsidies. In the words of Jiří Paroubek: gentlemen and ladies, which one of you has it? The seventh reason, and it has revealed itself most seriously to me today, is the violation of the Constitution, the basic document of our country, by the members of the government. I am now talking about the Minister of Culture, Mr. Staňek, who resigned. Today he told us that he was not a minister of demise, but he himself gave the resignation, the Prime Minister accepted it, and, as the Constitution imposes, he handed it over to the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic isn't doing anything, he's holding discussions, he's inviting participants, he's still working on something, six weeks have passed, and we still don't know anything. It wasn't until today that word came out that the President of the Republic wasn't going to accept this resignation, which clearly violates the Constitution. And I will now rely on the expression of the constitutional lawyer Jan Kysela, who said today for Echo24.cz - quote: "The conduct of President Miloš Zeman around the occupation of Minister of Culture is unconstitutional, especially his unwillingness to appeal to Antonín Staněk. If the President really wanted to reject the proposed Michal Šmarda, he would have to have serious reasons to do so. The President of the Republic is doing counter-constitutionally mainly by reinstating Minister Staněk's appeal. As regards the appointment of ministers, I take the view that the President of the Republic may reject the proposal in the presence of a legal obstacle, a type of conflict of interest or a security risk, e.g. based on intelligence reports or obvious defect." doktor Kysela presents e.g. The cannibal, if the nominee was a cannibal or analfabet, is otherwise obliged to comply with the Prime Minister's proposal. What is most important to me is this remark: "It is essential that the Prime Minister stands up for his proposals, negotiates with the President and uses legal means, i.e. jurisdictional actions, or supports a constitutional lawsuit for gross violation of the Constitution. When laying down the rules, it is not entirely advisable to rely on them to be observed voluntarily, they need to be enforced," Kysela adds. That concludes this quote. And I'll only add one to that. I have noted that social democracy has acted, there is some contradiction, because one of the Vice-Presidents says that they have been arranged to demand a jurisdictional action, and that's until Monday somehow. The President of Social Democracy is going backwards and says that it will probably not be so severe. And I think I know what's behind it. Because clearly, if President Hamáček came to the Prime Minister to ask him to write the jurisdictional suit and send it, then the Prime Minister will fire him because it is connected with his existence. That's how long the President of the Republic will hold Andrej Babiš if Andrej Babiš serves his interests well. As soon as Andrej Babiš comes up with a lawsuit, Andrej Babiš will end up being appointed Prime Minister again next time, even though Miloš Zeman promised him many times and repeated that on any occasion he would appoint him as Prime Minister again. But this would be the basic obstacle to disrupting the plans. The fact that the Social Democrats have acted as they have acted is not news to me. I'm not gonna advise them, they know best what to do. But what matters to me is that the government does not respect the Constitution, it does not prevent the constitutional order of our country, the Prime Minister does not call on the President to do as the Constitution requires. And if we have a government that doesn't respect the Constitution, I can no longer imagine a more serious reason for which it should be removed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u113	Thank you. I have one factual point here, Mr Bělobrádek. That's right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, let me make three comments. One concerns the speech of Minister Havlíček on science and research. He said what the government does. I am glad that it continues with much of what we have started, because what it said here was the achievements of this government has begun, or it has already largely been prepared during the reign of Sobotkův. And I am just glad that the Prime Minister has changed his mind about science and research that he has expressed with great respect. I am glad that Minister Havlíček continues to do so, albeit with minor changes, I am sorry that there will be no continuing scientific diplomats, but I would just like to say that the government of Andrej Babiš did not really start in 2014. On the contrary, we often had to vote against him. As for what has fallen here, there is no variant B, and if there is a distrust of the government, the world is essentially going to collapse and the country is going to be in some kind of chaos, of course it isn't, the Constitution is counting on it. And the B variant, I think it's understandable for everyone. And even from among the opposition, it was made clear that it was possible for the YES movement, which won the elections, to continue, but with another prime minister. That's completely legitimate. And we also had governments here that could replace three premieres, virtually. The term of office, when the Prime Minister was one party and they were three different people. And then I would also like to say that the Prime Minister certainly knows well that he is being contacted and made on the phone by the Heads of Government and the Heads of the European Union, but that does not mean that they do not have a problem with him or do not know about his problems. I have spoken to many of them personally and they have a problem with him, they know he has a big problem, but they just deal with him because he is the Prime Minister, just like many of the heads of countries like China, the DPRK or Russia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u115	Your time! Thank you. Now here I have two applications with priority rights. First Vice-President Filip, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u116	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, you must have noticed that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia did not participate in this debate. Let me briefly express our position. At the beginning of the transformation, the Czech Republic had assets in production assets from CZK 2.6 to 2.7 trillion and in 2017 after the election the debt of the Czech Republic was more than CZK 1.6 trillion. This means that we were in a situation from an unindebted state before these elections, when in some way more than CZK 4.5 trillion were dissolved and the state was in a situation where the debt increase was actually threatened by bankruptcy. Given the results of the elections and the creation of first a monochrome government that did not gain confidence, and then a minority coalition government, the KSČM decided to provide a one-off solution to support the emergence of a government with confidence and to tolerate it. This is the position in which we are now, and I note that the conditions that we have negotiated with the winning YES movement are currently being fulfilled. This means that wages are rising, and minimum wage growth is one of the tools for achieving that we will have comparable wages to those of the surrounding countries when we have European prices. That pensions and social benefits are constantly increasing, that there is protection of natural resources, the relevant section has been created at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, we will continue to discuss this. And, of course, there is no increase in patients' involvement in health care, because we respect the constitutional principle that there is a general health insurance between a patient and a doctor to ensure that healthcare is free of charge for a citizen. This is also a constitutional principle. Since it is important for us that the Czech Republic be a stable state. We are not interested in returning to politics by those who have indebted this state. Who have caused many things and excesses in the context of privatization, who have contributed to the fact that there is a concept of tunneling in the Czech Republic, that there is significant corruption. Some parties have become a symbol of corruption in the Czech environment in the past. And it is unacceptable for us that such concepts return to our environment. The KSČM therefore has no reason to vote in favour of this government's distrust. And this is not about what has been said that perhaps we are discussing Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. We are talking about the constitutional step of distrusting the government. And I don't think there's a reason for a number of citizens here, and so there's no reason for the KSČM voters. Therefore, the KSČM will abstain in this vote and will not support the government's distrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u117	Thank you. Another with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At first, maybe just a few words about what night we're talking about or not. If I count correctly, the meeting takes place without a lunch break, that means clean time, about 16 hours. I didn't have a stop sign in my hand, but I'd say the time between the government and the opposition was about 50-50. The government, from my point of view, is sharpening here, choosing tactics to tire us out. Well, I've got some bad news for you, you won't tire us out. You won't poison us, you won't convince us. In my first term of office 2010 to 2013, thanks to my colleagues from social democracy and KSČM, I had a meeting in the Chamber of Deputies, which started on Tuesday at nine and ended from Saturday to Sunday at about two in the morning. There's always been a break to eight, nine when the meeting was over. Six days, six nights, we weren't tired, we weren't beaten, we won. This will also happen during this parliamentary term. So I've seen frowny faces, and I'd say not very friendly views from the side of government MPs. So I'm just reminding you that when we ruled, we're here six days and six nights at a time, and many colleagues, and I'm about to turn to them by name today, especially social democracy, remembers it well. Well, it's just the arrangement, some simple calculation. I'd say it was 50-50. I'm going back to my very first performance. It was said here today, and this was my President, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Petr Fiala, who said that Andrej Babiš does not understand his situation and does not understand what is happening in society. Basically, in the following performances, Andrej Babiš, as CEO of the Czech Republic and his experts, whom we probably still call ministers out of habit, has been fully confirmed. I like political debate, and I have only recorded two political speeches, two political speeches by two members of the government. I do not agree with their content, but it was political speeches and one could argue about the content, and that was the speech of Minister Staněk and Minister Maláčová. What surprised me is the touching efforts of some ministers who are not ministers of the will of the voters because they did not run, they are not even ministers of the will of one of the government parties, but are ministers of the personal will of Andrej Babiš, as they showed a touching concern about whether we are well cared for by our right-wing voters. These ministers are feeling very strong at the cracks today. Let me just remind you that we've been here before. We had a Mrs. Minister Šlechtová here, who became the clerk of the secretary, how she turned out. We had Minister Pelikán here, who also became a minister of office, how he turned out. Yes, they ran in the following term, became MPs, even became members of the first government of Andrej Babiš, as they turned out. Don't get too excited, they've shown you your destiny. I forgot, I'm sorry, Minister Stropnický, who also passed the mandate in the Chamber of Deputies. Today he serves, and I mean it in a good way, as an ambassador of the Czech Republic to our key ally in the Middle East, Israel. And as I read from his wife's statement, on Monday or Sunday, he was giving water to protesters in Tel Aviv who wanted to support the demonstration at Letná. This is the story of those who were already in the government, whether Sobotkův or in the first government of Andrej Babiš. Now I want to think about this - about Andrej Babiš I won't say much anymore today, I think a lot has been said - about what should be crucial to the political struggle in the Chamber of Deputies, and that is the programme. The political party program. So today the government's majority is made up of three political parties. The YES movement. That doesn't have a program. According to the current mood on social networks or Internet forums, something on the left steals something on the right, something on the right, something bombastic promises to retreat, and so it happens. So the first member of the government coalition doesn't have a program. [[3.40 hours]] Then there's the communists. A party that has the name of a criminal ideology in its name up until today. We all know how many, in the 20th century, this ideology has brought millions of dead, abused, tortured. The country, our country, which commemorated the torture and execution of General Heliodor Píka a few days ago, was seventy years ago, our country, which in January reminded itself of the 50 years since the tragic death of Jan Palach, our country, which commemorates the concert together in November - I underline the concert together - against communism, does not deserve to be ruled by communists. He doesn't. But thanks to Andrej Babiš and his desire to rule today, the Communists are influencing government policy. And even Andrej Babiš refers to them as - quote - they are in the position of a reliable partner. And that's true, so we don't just criticize Andrej Babiš. For us, for the ODS, there is no control over the communists, there is no control over them, and we will not rule with them. They're not meant to be negotiated with the government. If you, dear colleagues from the other two sides, have a different opinion, I respect him, but we will never accept that. I originally prepared questions, namely for every member of the Social Democracy Club, because the numbers are clear. We have the YES movement, a reliable partner of the Communists, and to make sure there is an attempt to express distrust, because there is a whole opposition against it again, including non-attached Members, because I was communicating with them, so I apologize, but they made it quite clear on the microphone. It was clear that the Social Democrats would decide. A third party, a party with a program. I don't agree with him, but he has a program. A party with a long tradition. A party that has the word democracy in its name. And those are the only ones I don't understand what they're doing in that coalition. And I didn't want to talk specifically about individual ministers, but unfortunately I have to talk about one. And that's the Minister of Health. I have long wondered what led Andrej Babiš to choose this Minister of Health. I've been thinking about this for a really long time. I couldn't figure it out. Now I know. That's the guy who's been copging and looking for compromising materials on his coalition minister and his family. It's a little different now, but if we were older than 1989, he'd have a code name. I can offer him - Minister, ken, Superstar, zpěvák. The methods are always the same. So the first question, for example, is when I look left at the honourable colleague of Mr Lubomír Zaorálek. Will you give support to the government of Andrej Babiš when his minister, or his secretary, who became a minister for reward, wanted to spy on an excellent doctor because she was the wife of the Minister of Health for Social Democracy? He's a member of social democracy in your region. You, Mr President, want to give Andrej Babiš his trust? [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] I want to ask Vice-President Hanzel, who is also from my electoral region and who is a Member of Social Democracy, basically for the Karvina region. Vice-President Hanzel, through the President, do you know the story of your colleague, your predecessor, the Social Democratic Member of Karviné, Mr Šincl, on whom your Prime Minister Andrej Babiš had a file to attack family members? Second example. It's not a coincidence. It's a system. So, Vice-President Hanzel, will you stand up for your colleague, former Member Šincl? Or will you trust Andrej Babiš? That's exactly how it is. I chose only Members from my region because I know them all. Ex or current. That's how it works. So, today's question. And I have one final question for - and now I don't mean it at all ironically, really - the honored colleague Jan Hamáček, with whom I hope he would confirm, we have a really good, perhaps very good personal relationship. And I did when I talked about the program - and I appreciated that social democracy has a left-wing program. I think that the democratic right needs a struggle, and the struggle for those ideas, values, methods, democratic left, and I took the job and found a quote from a social democracy programme document called Values, Objectives and Principles of the ČSSD - and now I quote: "Social democracy bases its policy on humanistic democratic efforts so that all people can find their human dignity in freedom without distinction. " I think that's a good sentence, good goals. So my question to the Minister, honored colleague Jan Hamáček: How are things going with communism and with the support of your government's communists, Mr. Vice-President Hamáček? Finally - I left out, I don't know if they're gonna take this hard or if they like other members of the MP's club, but I had similar personal questions prepared for them - I mean, repeat a clear message from the opposition and also from hundreds of thousands of citizens who protest against the person of Andrej Babiš. You can't buy everything. They can't all be bought. You're not buying us. Values, ideals, pride - it can't be bought. Today you may still win, but my colleague Pavel Žáček held a conference on Monday, organized a conference with a distinctive name like a stake in a fence. And that's how Andrej Babiš ends up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u119	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jan Schiller.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u120	Good morning. I am sorry, I did not want to respond, and unfortunately I have to - to my colleague Stanjura through you, Mr President. You know, you've just shown a beautiful hypocrisy here. You say all the ODS here how communists don't work together, they don't deal with communists. I'm, among other things, a deputy in Most. You and the Communists rule there, or you support the government, and even in order not to break your own resolution, you are so cowardly that you will not even conclude a coalition agreement. So don't tell people here that they're out of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u121	Thank you, too. Now, I have a comment, Mr Kalousek's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's four o'clock in the morning and I'll try to be brief. However, in a few moments, each of us will stand up and say - in a meaningful sense - I trust or distrust Andrea Babiš, a man who disgraces us throughout Europe. And undoubtedly, the members of the government coalition supported by the Communist Party will decide that. The Communist Party has its values. They're so far away from me that I can't appeal to them. I don't think there are any value grounds for the ANO movement, so if there's nothing there, I can't appeal to them either. However, there is undoubtedly a social democracy as the oldest state-law democratic party in the Czech Republic. And I just want to turn to the Social Democrats asking them to realize what each of them is going to decide at this point. Knowing what the Prime Minister means about these problems not only within the Czech public, how he is burdening the government and its performance, but what a huge shame he is doing throughout Europe. For example, former Foreign Minister Zaorálek must be completely aware of what it means when a person with such a brand rides to key foreign meetings, how seriously they take him there and what optics they look at our entire country through him, that is, each of us. What a burden that means and a shame for all of us. [[3.50 hours]] And since you are aware of this, colleagues from social democracy, there is no way that you are not aware of this, so I dare appeal to you before the vote. You decide your country, your country, based on your best knowledge and conscience. If it goes wrong and you don't support us, you stand up and say "I trust Andrej Babiš," I'd bet you any amount of money that in ten years you'd give anything to return here for a while and stand here and say "for a proposal," because the shame will be very difficult for you, but it won't go away. So I beg you to reconsider.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u123	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the debate. I ask if there is any interest in the final words from the representative of the assembly or the Prime Minister. There's no interest in final words. Of course, we already know this, we are already experienced with regard to these votes. After all, I will remind you that according to § 85 para. 1 and 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall be put to the Government by name on a motion for distrust. A majority of all Members must be approved in order to adopt a resolution declaring distrust to the Government. I will ask the designated verifiers of this meeting, also the experienced verifier Jana Černochová and Mr Petr Vrána, to take their seats. First we proceed according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to draw up the name of the Member from whom the vote will take place in alphabetical order. The examination of tickets with the names of Members has been carried out. [[The draw.]] I was the first to draw for Mrs. Věra Adámková. [[Rush in the hall.]] We'll have it almost from the beginning of the alphabet. It is recalled that according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be formulated by the Member 'for a proposal' or 'against a proposal'. If he abstains, he will say, "I am abstaining." Any other speech by a Member shall be deemed to be a delay in voting. I will, of course, ask each of the Members to say their position loud enough so that I can repeat it to the microphone in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We will proceed to the vote. Is that possible, Ms. verifier? Are we ready? [[Mrs Cernoch agrees.]] We will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies is expressing distrust to the Government'. And now I will summon you, and I beg you to speak. Initiating vote: Věra Adámková: Against the proposal. Hana Aulická Jírovcová: absent. Andrej Babiš: Against the proposal. Andrea Babišová: She's not present. Margita Balaštíková: Against the proposal. Dana Balcarová: Proposition. Lukáš Bartoň: Pro proposition. Ivan Bartoš: Proposition. Jan Bartošek: For a proposal. Jan Bauer: Proposition. Martin Baxa: Proposition. Jiří Běhounek: Not present, excused. Petr Beitl: For a proposal. Josef Bělica: Against the proposal. Pavel Bělobrádek: For a proposal. Marek Benda: Proposition. Ondřej Benešík: For a proposal. Stanislav Berkovec: Against the proposal. Jan Birke: Against the proposal. Jiří Bláha: Against the proposal. Stanislav Blaha: For a proposal. Pavel Blažek: For a proposal. Marian Bojko absent. Richard Brabec: Against the proposal. Milan Brázdil: Against the proposal. Andrea Brzobohatá: Against the proposal. Jaroslav Bžoch: Against the proposal. Lukáš Černohorský: For the proposal. Jana Černochová: For a proposal. Alexander Černý: I'm stalling. Monika Červíčková: Against the design. Jan Čižinský: For a proposal. Jiří I'm stalling. Petr Dolínek: Against the proposal. Klára Dostálová: Against the proposal. Lenka Dražilová: Against the proposal. Jaroslav Dvořák: For a proposal. František Elfmark: For the proposal. Jaroslav Faltýnek: Against the proposal. Kamal Farhan: Against the proposal. Jan Farský: Proposition. Milan Feranec: Against the proposal. Dominik Feri: Proposition. Mikuláš Ferjenčík: For a proposal. Petr Fiala: Proposition. Radim Fiala: Proposition. Eva Fialová: Against the proposal. I'm Vojtěch. Jaroslav Foldyna: Against the proposal. Stanislav Fridrich: Against the proposal. Alena Gajdůšková: Against the proposal. Petr Gazdík: For a proposal. Pavla Golasowská: For a proposal. Miroslav Grebeníček: Not present. Stanislav Grospič: I'm stalling. Josef Hájek: Against the design. Jan Hamáček: Against the proposal. Tomáš Hanzel: Against the proposal. Milan Hnilička: Against the proposal. Jaroslav Holík: For a proposal. Radek Holomčík: For a proposal. Jan Hrnčíř: For a proposal. Hyťhová's excused. Jan Chvojka: Against the proposal. Ivan Jáč: Against the proposal. Jakub Janda: For the proposal. Miloslav Janulík: Against the proposal. Monika Jarošová: Proposition. Pavel Jelínek: For a proposal. Martin Jiránek: For the proposal. Juchelka the proposal. Stanislav Juránek: For a proposal. Marian Jurečka: For a proposal. Pavel Juříček: Against the proposal. Iva Kalátová: Against the proposal. Adam Kalous: Against the proposal. Miroslav Kalousek: For a proposal. Vít Kaňkovský: Proposition. David Kasal: Against the proposal. [[4.00 hours]] Václav Klaus: For a proposal. Jiří Kobza: Proposition. Jiří Kohoutek: For a proposal. Tomáš Kohoutek: Against the proposal. Lukáš Kolářík: For a proposal. Martin Kolovratník: Against the proposal. František Kopřiva: For a proposal. Barbora Kořanová: Against the proposal. Radek Koten: Not present. Josef Kott: Against the design. Pavel Kováčik: I'm stalling. Věra Kovářová: Proposition. Lenka Kozlová: For a proposal. Robert králíček: Against the proposal. Karel Krejza: For a proposal. Jana Krutáková: For a proposal. Roman Kubíček: Against the proposal. Jan Kubík: Against the proposal. Martin Kupka: Proposition. Jaroslav Kytýr: Against the proposal. Helena Langšádlová: Proposition. Jana Levová: Not present. Jan Lipavský: Proposition. Leo Luzar: I'm stalling. Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková: For design. Taťána malý: Against the proposal. Přemysl's not present. Tomáš Martínek: For a proposal. Jaroslav Martinů: For a proposal. Karla Maříková: For a proposal. Jiří Mašek: Against the proposal. - I'm staying. Eva Matyášová: Against the proposal. Ilona Mauritzová: Proposition. Radka Maxová: Against the proposal. Marcela Melková: Against the proposal. Jiří Mihola: Proposition. Jakub Michálek: For a proposal. Jana Mračková Vildumetzová: Against the proposal. Vojtěch Munzar: Proposition. Patrik Nacher: Against the proposal. František Navrkal: For the proposal. Miroslava Němcová: For the proposal. Ivana Nevludová: Not present. Marek Novák: Against the proposal. Monika Oborná: Against the design. Tomio Okamura: Proposition. Ladislav Okleštěk: Against the proposal. Roman Onderka: Against the proposal. Zdeněk Ondráček: I'm stalling. Zuzana Ožanová: Against the proposal. Jana Pastuchová: Against the proposal. Petr Pávek: For a proposal. Daniel Pawlas: Excused, absent. Markéta Pekarová For a proposal. Marie Pěnčíková: I'm stalling. František Petrtýl: Against the proposal. Vojtěch Pikal: For a proposal. Pavel Plzák: Against the proposal. Zdeněk Podal: For a proposal. pojezdný I'm stalling. Ondřej Polanský: Proposition. Jan Pošvář: For a proposal. Milan Pour: Against the proposal. David Pražák: Against the proposal. Ondřej Profant: Proposition. Věra Procházková: Against the proposal. Pavel Pustějovskýějovský: Against the proposal. Karel Rais: Against the proposal. Vít Rakušan: Proposition. Michal Ratiborský: He is not present. Jan Richter: Against the proposal. Olga Richterová: Proposition. Miloslav Rozner: For a proposal. Radek Rozvoral: For the proposal. Miloslava Rutová: Against the proposal. Pavel Růžička: Against the proposal. Jan Řehounek: Against the proposal. Petr Sadovský: Against the proposal. Jan Schiller: Against the proposal. Karel Schwarzenberg: For a proposal. Roman Sklenák: Against the proposal. Jan Skopeček: For a proposal. Antonín Staněk: Against the proposal. Pavel Staněk: Against the proposal. Stanjura: Proposition. Jiří Strýček: Against the proposal. Bohuslav Svoboda: Pro pro proposition. Lucie Šafránková: For a proposal. Karla Šlechtová: Against the proposal. Lubomír Španěl: For the proposal. Julius Against Špičák proposal. David Štolpa: Against the proposal. Petr Třešňák: For a proposal. Karel Tureček: Against the proposal. František Vácha: For a proposal. - I'm sorry. Vlastimil Válek: For a proposal. I'm Valenta. Helena Válková: Absent. [[4.10 hours]] Petr Venhoda: Against the proposal. Jiří Ventruba: For a proposal. Ondřej Veselý: Against the proposal. Radovan Vích: For the proposal. Adam Vojtěch: Against the proposal. Jan Volný: Against the proposal Lubomír Volný: Not present. Radek Vondráček: Against the proposal. Ivo Vondrák: Not present. [[There are voices from the plenary that the President is to repeat his speech.]] Repeat yourself? [[Yes.]] Radek Vondráček: Against the proposal. Ivo Vondrák: Not present. Miloslava Vostrá: I'm stalling. Václav Votava: Not present. Petr Vrána: Against the proposal. Veronika Vrecionová: For a proposal. Marek Výborný: Proposition. Tomáš Vymazal: Not present. Excuse me. Rostislav Vyzula: Against the proposal. Jan Zahradník: For a proposal. Lubomír Zaorálek: Against the proposal. Radek Zlesák: Against the proposal. Pavel Žáček: For a proposal. And finally Ivan Adamec: For the proposal. I ask whether all the Members present have been read, or whether there are any doubts about the course of the vote. If that's not the case, I'll ask the verifier. Verifiers are proposing ten minutes to count the votes, which is why I'm interrupting our meeting within 4.20 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you to remain calm and take your seats. And I'm going to ask you to perform for Ms. Jana Černochová's verifier. One more time, please, calm down. Madam, we'll give our colleagues a moment. I'm going to ask you to really settle down as far as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So good morning for us, for the verifier. Allow me to announce the results. 85 Members and Members have expressed themselves in favour of the proposal, which consisted in a positive vote on distrust of the government. 85 Members and Members have commented against the proposal for distrust of the Government. 12 Members were held up, 18 Members and Members were apologized. That's the result. Mr President, let me just say one more thing, because tonight is probably the last meeting, the last night, the last day when the two ladies who have actually become Members of Europe are here, Mrs Radka Maxová, and it is Mrs Veronika Vrecionová, they really enjoyed the night with us. [[with laughter]] Who would have dreamed that their final work in our Chamber of Deputies would be like this. Ladies, perhaps I can speak for all my colleagues, allow me to wish you the best of luck in the European Parliament and to remember that you are Members of the Czech Republic and defend the interests of the Czech Republic. Another thing I still had to say, which I missed before midnight, because we were here pussing around with the secretary. Today we ruined one of our colleagues' round birthdays. I would like to wish Petr Sadovský good health, happiness, love and patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u126	Thank you. I therefore note that the Chamber of Deputies has not adopted the motion for a resolution. Madam, gentlemen, we have discussed the agenda for the 32nd session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I hereby conclude and wish you good night, good morning... [[Let's hear it.]] President Bartoš would like to speak to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u127	I was going to ask the members of the Public Administration Committee to move the committee to 10 o'clock. I don't have a problem with that. I'd go at 9:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u128	There. If you don't mind, I'd like you to transfer... President Kalousek still has a message.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-27-ps2017-032-02-000-000.u129	I wanted to ask the members of the Budget Committee that if anyone wanted anything, they could buy it.
