ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u1	13. The proposal by Members Barbora Kořanová, Petr Sadovskýý and others to issue a law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Road and on Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended (the House Press 359), first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 It is therefore proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading. I don't have a written veto. The Government's position was delivered as the House Press 359/1. I ask that the proposal put forward by Mrs Barbora Kořanová, the appellants' representative. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, let me introduce to you the reasons why I would like to ask you to support the amendment to the road law in the sense of the ban on the driving of trucks in the left lane. It is designed that this ban would apply on weekdays from 6.00 to 22.00 for all trucks weighing more than 3.5 tonnes and of a length exceeding 7 metres. This is primarily about the fact that, as a country in the middle of Europe, we have long-term and daily problems with trucks, which often block roads, paralyze the left lane on motorways and on express roads. During my regular visits to the region, I hear from all the mayors or almost all the mayors, how they are at war with trucks in terms of safety and the impact of their speed on the state of the roads, which is, of course, another discussion. However, what I consider to be very important is accidents or car accidents. Their number is rising year on year by 8 percent on average. This is a long-term trend. For example, the number of accidents caused by truck drivers increased by 540 accidents in 2015 in relation to 2014, which is almost 8.4 %. And in the years to come, the numbers are roughly the same and often even higher. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The goal is that trucks will not enter the left highway lane without consideration and thus threaten the driver of passenger cars as it often does. So let's take inspiration in this direction, for example. from abroad -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u3	Excuse me, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your voice down. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u4	Thank you. So let us take inspiration from abroad in this respect, when the Slovak model, which is valid for almost ten years, and in my opinion and in consultation with experts, is valid and functional. Similar restrictions also apply in neighbouring countries. I have come up with a proposal that I want to improve the situation on the motorways, and this quickly and effectively. I want the right lane, and I believe that even the right lane will be smooth if truck drivers follow the law. I therefore call on you to support the proposal and make life easier for millions of car drivers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u5	I thank the Member and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Ondřej Polanský. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear government, let me present this amendment to the Road Traffic Act from my position. The bill was submitted by a group of Members on 20. 12. 2018 and on the same day it was sent to Members as Press 359. The Government was sent the proposal to comment on 21. 12. 2018. The government said 15. 1. Its position was distributed to Members on the same day as Press 359/1. The government's position was neutral, but the government's reasoning states some facts that I will return to in a moment. [[Noise in the hall.]] The proposal is, in itself, miscellaneously very simple. It contains a single amendment point banning the use of the left lane of vehicles either more than 3.5 tonnes on working days from six to 22 hours on the motorway, or more than -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u7	Still, Mr. Ambassador, please wait... so we can hear each other. So please, you can go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u8	Thank you. It should still be said that the petitioner proposed in the House to discuss the bill so that the House could agree with it at first reading, according to Section 90. Now, therefore, from the government's standpoint. The Government has taken a neutral view of this draft law, pointing out some of the elements below which it recommends taking into account when discussing this proposal further. The proposed adjustment appears to be a response to the catastrophic situation on the D1 motorway - a quote from the Government's opinion - dated December 2018, which took place under very specific conditions during the extensive reconstruction of the motorway section in question. It should therefore be carefully considered whether a general ban would be an adequate measure not only to prevent a possible other similar calamity, but also to create unintended and undesirable consequences in all motorways and roads for motor vehicles. The current legislation of Section 77 of the Road Traffic Act allows, by establishing local traffic arrangements on roads, to limit the driving of certain categories of road vehicles only to defined lanes, with the fact that, contrary to the general regulation with a surface impact, such a restriction can be adapted to the state of a particular section of the road and to the current traffic situation and climatic conditions. In addition, the current legislation - again § 12 para. 4, the Road Traffic Act - allows vehicles to be covered by the proposed amendment to use only two lanes nearest the right edge of the road on the road with three or more lanes on the road, in other words prohibiting driving in the third and possible other lanes. Three. The restrictions on certain vehicles laid down by means of transport markings compared to the general arrangements in particular for drivers of foreign nationals are more understandable. The driver will always know in a particular section of the road where the left lane must not be used. Fourthly, it is a reaction to Slovakia. Unlike Slovakia, the Czech Republic is probably inspired by the design, the transit country with dense operation, a larger motorway network and a different road network profile. It can be assumed that the general ban on overtaking freight vehicles on the motorway may result not only in slowing down the right lane and in the creation of continuous lanes which will make crossings harder to the turn lane of vehicles from the left lane and, on the contrary, in driving on the highway of vehicles from the connecting lane, but also in the end, the deceleration of the left lane, because even drivers of some slower moving passenger cars will not want or will be directly afraid to be included in the continuous stream of trucks. All of this, combined with the aggressive behaviour of some drivers, can undoubtedly cause undesirable risk situations. Five. The proposed prohibition may, perhaps unintended, also apply to a combination of a motor vehicle weighing up to 3,5 tonnes with an unbraked trailer weighing up to 750 kilograms, whose maximum permitted speed may be up to 130 km per hour. The proposed modification also does not include an exemption for vehicles with the right of priority in driving and, in particular, vehicles of components of the integrated rescue system. Six. As regards the justification for the proposal, it is intended to remove the bad transport situation - this is a quote from the explanatory report - which affects the whole economy of the Czech Republic and all its inhabitants. However, it does not show exactly what the poor transport situation is seen in and what the causes of the problems are and what the alternatives to their solutions are. The proposal also completely absents an assessment of the impact on the business sector and, in particular, the segment of truck transport, which would undoubtedly be substantially affected by the adoption of the proposal and in which the proposed restrictions would undoubtedly be perceived very negatively also in the light of the toll rates paid by the carriers using the motorways. Contrary to Article 3 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union is not in a position to rule on the application of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union. 3 of the Act, number 309/1999 Coll., on the Collection of International Treaties, then it is not appropriate to So much for the government. It follows from the above that, in the view of the legislative board, the proposal contains shortcomings, not only formal and factual defects, but defects relating to the substance of the amendment. However, I expect a lively debate on this in the forthcoming debate. Thank you for your attention, and I therefore report to the President for a general debate with priority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u9	Thank you. You will be the second in the general debate that I am opening right now, because President Stanjura has already signed up with priority rights before you. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u10	So I'm an optimist, and I believe we'll be done with the debate in 19 hours. So to remember, first of all, on behalf of five MPs - ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN - we veto negotiations under Section 90. So that in itself proves the quality of the proposal. I'll leave it on the wheels, who will have more detailed performances, who will definitely propose rejection. Because you can't really fix this. And I would leave it up to Minister Took to deal with this issue, his ministry, to take it through proper commentary proceedings, and then I think it will be meaningful for us to discuss it. I fear that the effect of this proposal, which would be approved as it is presented, would be exactly the opposite. We wouldn't have one more fast lane. We'd have two, maybe three, slow. That means, let's imagine it. Right lane full of trucks, headed by the slowest. Which one of the drivers of a personal vehicle would drive between those trucks? Well, I certainly wouldn't, and I don't think I'd be the only one by a long shot. And then we have to believe that the first one in the left lane is fast, that it's 130 and it's not 100 or 90. But there's always someone like that on the freeway, and they'd set the pace of the left lane. So it wouldn't be less stressful, but more. But I was debating the problem in a television debate with Minister Took, and there we agreed that we needed - the Home Secretary had already escaped - police statistics. There are already sections where truck traffic in the left lane is prohibited. And look what it looks like. Whether the Police of the Czech Republic enforces or does not enforce this law. Well, he's not! He's not. And that's what we should be bounced off. I know it's much more comfortable to measure speed when entering a village or a town that someone was doing 60, for the police. But it doesn't come true, it doesn't enforce the existing wording of the law. I think the solution is quite elegant, and let's look for a solution worthy of the 21st century, not a general ban. We need variable signs to respond to weather, traffic intensity, nighttime or daytime. This is exactly the solution. It doesn't have to be the same every day, it doesn't have to be the same every Monday, and yet we can react flexibly. But what does it take? To enforce or respect the ban. I fully understand, fortunately, I don't have to drive on the freeway very often - when I have three lanes and there's an 80 truck in the right, there's a 82 truck in the middle, and there's a 84 truck on the left, and there's a ban sign - and there's the Police of the Czech Republic? It's not. And that's the problem. Not a printed ban, but intelligent traffic signs and enforcement of the law on the spot. There should be an Home Secretary or a head of traffic police. I'm interested in statistics on how many offences they've intercepted, how many block fines they've imposed on truck drivers who haven't followed valid traffic signs, when there's no truck traffic on the left. I don't know. I think it's a minimum. But there's a prerequisite for a debate about a bill like this to know what's going on on on those roads today. [[17.30 hours]] Suppose we accept it, we should have the right slow and left slow - and where will the police be? Is it gonna be like today? He's still thinking, sectional measurements, whether they're going to measure to 80 if everyone's going 80, but the key isn't just the safety, but also the flow of traffic. The fluency may be more important, virtually. smoothness contributes to the economy. Many economists calculate what losses are on the national economy, how much time drivers stand in queues. I think these numbers are difficult to prove, but there are studies, and they're really impressive numbers. We should focus on the quality of the transport network. Perhaps nothing against colleagues in Slovakia, I sometimes go there, where the four lanes, where the left lane would be banned, are not as many as in the Czech Republic. So lashing out with Slovakia's experience doesn't seem entirely happy to me. But this bill is really not good, and I think the processors have done it cleverly, that they are represented here by the MP, because if there were some others here, the criticism would be much stronger. Out of respect for her, the criticism is quite mild. That's why I choose a dictionary quite mild, but it really can't be fixed. I mean, I'm told by the petitioner that it wasn't, and I was a little ironic today at the press conference saying that it was obvious that they wrote it when it snowed. The author says it's not true, but for me, the bill looks like it was written by someone who was upset in the car, I would be upset too, and I couldn't overtake the trucks, so quickly he wrote: I'll forbid it! Good idea, but I think the impact would be exactly the opposite of what Mrs. Speaker said she would have smooth traffic, and in the left lane how good it would be to ride. I'm afraid that's the way, and it's typical of an amendment on road traffic, that's not the way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u11	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Kalousek will now speak. I just point out that during the course of the debate, the appellant does not have priority rights unless he is a member of the Government, so I recommend a factual remark. President Kalousek is on the verdict. He's pulling her down. Yes. So, with a factual remark, Mrs Kořanová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u12	I didn't mean to get the debate going, but Mr. Stanjura made me do it a little bit. So I will respond to his performance, of course through you. Basically, my proposal was made in November. I'm really not lying, it wasn't about the calamity in the Highlands. This is due to the daily experience I experience on my way to Prague on the D5 motorway. I'm sure what I'm trying to say here is that when it comes to the three-way highway, it's really just the completely left lane. So as far as the three-way highway is concerned, trucks can pass in those two right lanes. First of all. As for your mention that the right lane will be slow, that the front will be the slowest, etc., I do not think so, because the prescribed speed of the trucks is 80 kilometers per hour. If he drives less, he has nothing to do on the highway, because the minimum speed on the highway is 80 kilometers per hour. The fact that we are not going down or we are not going to be able to fit into the right lane, as you mentioned, is also nonsense given that they have some distance to follow and do not follow. I totally agree with you. What you mentioned about the highway police being out of order, and I don't want to get them upset, of course, because we're working with them, we're communicating with them, but it's really true. Those trucks are holding on, sticking to each other 20 centimeters, and it's really hard to fit into the right lane today. So I guess it's for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u13	Thank you. Mr Bartoň and President Gazdík will respond with factual comments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u14	Thank you. I have to respond to mine in front of the speaker. The minimum speed on the highway is 80 kilometers, that's the first I've heard of it. Only a vehicle that reaches 80 kilometers is allowed on the highway, but it can go at a much lower speed on that highway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u15	Thank you. President Gazdík with a point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u16	Good day, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'm starting to understand why the law is such a pasculi and why it came into existence. The rapporteur, through Mr President. You said you were on the D5 motorway. I drive three times a week on the D1 motorway. If you were driving on the D1 motorway, you'd know that the law is complete nonsense, because yes ministers have been fixing that highway for five years, just like they've been fixing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u17	Thank you. President Stanjura with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u18	The plaintiff in her first sentence, when she responded to me, said she wanted to disprove what I said, and then she agreed with me. Thank you very much. That's not a rebuttal at all. I really understand two and three lanes. Maybe it wasn't clear at first glance, I understand the difference between two and three lanes in one direction. That's why I said nowadays, especially where there are three lanes, and that's exactly right. That's not what we're arguing about. Let's argue about the area and where the two lanes are. Also, when I see Mr. Governor, when we go from Olomouc to Ostrava, for example, there are sections where there are three lanes, there is no real problem. Only sometimes there are three trucks next to each other, as I described. But on that unfortunate D1, and I told you I trust you, it didn't come out of the snow, it didn't seem like the law. I'm not fighting, and I have no reason not to believe you. And I think that the reserved approach, which is given especially by the party loyalty of the Ministry of Transport, is also indicative of this. I didn't notice that the Ministry of Transport has vocalized and publicly supported this bill. That the government gave a neutral position is due to who is signed under it, because it is always important when you read not only the consent - disapproval - neutral, but what is written under it. So if you read what's written under that neutral position, you're wondering how neutral it might have come out. I agree with the rapporteur. And we don't live in an ideal world. The minimum speed has already been refuted by one of my previous speakers. That's just not true. So if we're gonna make the ideal computer models and we're gonna model those truck spacings, then maybe some of them, I'm sure I'm not, they're gonna go in there. Then they'll never leave again and follow that truck. Let's talk about the really functional solution that I think exists, the problem exists, only the proposed solution is wrong. I'm not saying it's not a problem, but smart tags, selected sections are exactly the way we should go. If the Minister needs some budget money, let's find them, invest them, and then things will get better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u19	Thank you. Mrs Kořanová's point of fact, then Mr Vondrák's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u20	I hope it will be the last for my previous speaker through Mr President. I only agreed partially with you, but I want to say that I am very surprised by your approach, because I remember very well that in 2006, when the Minister of the Interior, Mr Milan Chovanec, presented this, so you agreed to it, and you even performed this way in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u21	Thank you. Mr Vondrák's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I would set things straight. In the Czech Republic vehicles whose maximum permitted speed is not less than 80 kilometres per hour must not be moved on the motorway. According to the law, it also orders drivers to leave the motorway at the nearest exit if the vehicle is not able to drive at a speed of 80 kilometers or higher due to defects or others. So please, I've lived in the United States, and that's where this applies all the time. The truck must not ride in the left lane and it works perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u23	Thank you. President Stanjura, with a factual point, followed by Mr Bartoň, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u24	For the plaintiff. It's not accurate. The proposal that Minister Chovanec made, I remember, I actually said the same thing, that I was in favour, but on selected sections. That's the key. Also, as an ODS, we never suggested that it should be 150 kilometers on motorways in general, but we always said on selected sections. But whoever it suits, they only use the first sentence and forget the second sentence. I'm claiming that it's not supposed to be that way on selected sections, I support it. I designed a solution that I think is functional. It is the same as with the maximum speed that the Minister refused by the way, and now he is much more favorable about it, but I think he is also talking about selected sections of highways where he talks about a hundred and forty, and I understand that there are sections where it is safe, even those 150, and then there are sections where it is simply not possible because of the state of the road, the view, the radius, etc. We don't have to talk about that. So if we're quoting ourselves from the past, let's just quote it exactly. Yes, I agreed to it just as I did today - on selected sections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u25	Thank you. Mr Bartoň. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u26	I must respond to Mr Vondrák. Unfortunately, he's already left the room. Thank you for confirming my words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u27	Thank you. Now with the priority right of the rapporteur, Mr Polanský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u28	Thank you. As I have already indicated in my reporting speech, the proposal, in the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, contains some shortcomings, not only the defects of formal and factual, but also the defects relating to the substance of the amendment. It is therefore interesting - after all, my previous speaker spoke of this - how, despite these reservations from the government, the proposal received a neutral opinion. Blocking the 90th, which was also presented by my previous speaker, is therefore an important step that opens the way to removing part of these errors. I would now like to mention some aspects that I consider problematic, without touching the content of the amendment. Firstly, the whole amendment is not based on any long-term need, professional initiatives or discussions. Before 20 December 2018, when this proposal was sent to Members, no transport expert spoke of the need to ban trucks from using the left lane. Even though no expert spoke of this after 20 December, there is already a risk that the measure will be implemented. This is, in the case of such serious intervention not only in road traffic rules, but in the whole economy, a procedure that I would call sub-optimum. I am even afraid that even the debate on committees does not generate a sufficiently expertly-founded conclusion and that it will be necessary to have some expert impact analysis worked out. Secondly, there is no analysis of the impact on the Czech economy. As a transit country, we are largely dependent on transport. Given that there is no estimate of the impact of the amendment on road transport, it is even quite possible that what my previous speakers mentioned here is that the ban on trucking in the left lane may have the opposite effect on the reliability and smoothness of transport, there is no way to estimate how this change will take place in the Czech economy. In those trucks, my dear colleagues, it is very often the goods that we have ordered from our favorite computer salesman's e-shop at home and we expect that if I order them in the morning in Ostrava, after lunch it will be from the central warehouse at the other end of the Republic. Thirdly, the explanatory memorandum contains errors. Of these things, I would see as the most problematic part of the fact that there is no information on the fact that the regulation of trucking in the left lane is possible today with the help of traffic signs, we have already discussed it here today, and that the intention could therefore be achieved even without adopting new legislation, even in a less problematic and flexible way. There is probably no dispute that the legislature should be aware of the existence of an alternative mechanism that will meet the same objective but does not require a change in legislation. On the basis of the above, I propose to return the amendment to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have noted the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. We will vote on this at the end of the general debate. From today's meeting between 18 and 19 o'clock, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes for health reasons. We will continue the general debate. Those who have applied in writing will appear. First of all, Mrs Jarošová, after her Mr Onderka. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will comment on the Parliament's proposal for a law on road traffic, so called. Road Traffic Act, to his amendment. A truck driver with a total weight exceeding 3,5 tonnes and a combination driver with a total length exceeding 7 metres on the motorway shall be prohibited from driving on working days from 6 to 22 hours on the left extreme lane intended for speeding vehicles. At its meeting on 11 January 2019, the Government discussed and assessed this bill and took a neutral position on it. The proposed adjustment appears to be a response to the catastrophic situation on the D1 motorway of December 2018, which occurred during the heavy snowfall during the extensive reconstruction. This may also appear from the date of submission of the proposal on 20. 12. 2018, i.e. four days after the collapse on the D1 motorway, so that this proposal was made about to avoid situations in the future where the motorway is blocked by trucks in both lanes and the situation does not allow the maintenance of the motorway and the integrated rescue system. At that time, Minister Ťok's speeches revealed that he wanted to enforce anything just to make it happen. However, the proposal does not actually address this situation at all and, on the contrary, falls on those types of vehicles that did not cause this situation. The explanatory memorandum states that this amendment of the law is aimed at increasing the continuity and safety of traffic on motorways. The opposite is true. Rather, we can also expect, under normal weather conditions, the creation of long freight vehicle columns, which will be impenetrable both for vehicles that come off the motorway and for vehicles that connect to the motorway at its full length. In the left lane, a column of those vehicles which are not subject to the ban will then be created at the speed of the slowest vehicle at its head. It is not expected that drivers of slow-moving passenger cars, such as 100 km per hour, would significantly reduce the speed of the left lane, dared to place the moving trucks close to each other. These situations will undoubtedly cause aggressive behaviour in drivers and can cause a number of dangerous situations that would otherwise not have happened. Complicated laws associated with speed limitation, senseless overtaking bans and point systems are tightening increasingly imaginary screws with subsequent selection of fines and driver's licenses. New standards are being set that already affect a person's ability to make decisions. I recommend here to go the way of local road traffic regulations without amendment of the law. In the event of catastrophic situations, information lights or tilting markings may be used, either by means of a traffic ban ban on overtaking for trucks or by means of a lane restriction mark, supplemented by a road sign banning the entry of trucks, which are in particular more understandable for drivers of foreign nationality. The driver will always know in a particular section of the road where the left lane must not be used. I am certainly opposed to any amendments being created under the pressure of sudden situations and, after experience with them, they had to be redesigned again. In my opinion, this is an initial attempt to please voters, with the fact that I immediately take appropriate steps and do not take account of their consequences. The whole system, in particular, advocates the state's inability to create sufficient transport infrastructure so that vehicles are not enemies, but pleasure, and at the same time everything adapts to those for whom the gain of a driving licence is the highlight of their ability. Automobilism has become a worldwide mass matter, and thus a milk cow. I will certainly not accept the proposal for myself in this form. On the contrary, it needs to be discussed in committees. If it were adopted in this way, as proposed, in an accelerated discussion, then the adverse consequences would be very difficult to remove. I certainly listen to the opinions of both experienced drivers and experts, and I would recommend the same to you. In the SPD, we have always supported sensible proposals that will make our citizens' lives easier, which I really do not think about this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u31	Thank you. Mr Onderka will now appear, Mr Klaus will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I assume that many of you have read any legislation on this proposal, yet it will not allow me to make a minor excursion into the legislation of the Czech Republic, namely Act No. 361/2000 Coll., Road Traffic Act. In § 12 Driving in lanes, paragraph. 4 - Quote: "On road roads with three or more lanes marked on the road in one direction of travel, a truck driver of a total weight exceeding 3 500 kg, a combination of a total length exceeding 7 metres, a special motor vehicle and a motorcycle with a maximum speed of 45 km in an hour may use only two lanes nearest to the right edge of the road. In other lanes it may be driven only if it is necessary to bypass, rotate or turn.' And the second excursion, also into Act No. 361/2000 Coll., Road Traffic Act, § 77 para. 1: "Local and transitional arrangements for road traffic and the use of operational information equipment shall be determined by the Ministry on the motorway.' This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5: "The local and transitional arrangements for road traffic shall be laid down by the competent administrative authority of a general nature in the case of light signals, command and traffic signs, traffic signs governing priority and additional tables to them or other road users by virtue of obligations derogating from general road traffic arrangements." I would also like to point out that there is a B22a ban on overtaking trucks in the Czech Republic. Now, about the proposal we've received and some of my previous speakers. Legislation in the Czech Republic gives us options. Options to adjust existing transport on motorway roads in the Czech Republic. We have a problem here. The problem is bad infrastructure. The problem that sounds bad infrastructure is tied to a problem that affects the weather forecast. At the Ministry of Transport, they will have to change their weather girl because it snows and freezes in the Czech Republic on 15 December. When we repair the communication to D1, and not only on it, it is necessary to realize that for the winter period these communications must be adjusted in such a way that there are two full lanes that allow all IZS units to pass through, that is to say, police, paramedics, firefighters, and, of course, all services that provide the surface of the highway, that is to say, sypacho cars, etc. From this point of view, it is necessary to perceive the situation. If today's situation works so that the work on motorways works even during the winter period, that means for example. On December 15th, when the weather just doesn't wait for the wishes of the Ministry of Transport, unfortunately traffic will become as unbearable as in many comments on social networks it has appeared that when you go to D1, specifically my example from Brno to Prague and back, there are two possibilities. Either he'll take the food for seven days, to the shovel, or he'll take the entire route through Svitavy and Hradec Králové. I would like to warn you that the whole December I went to Prague in this way. It wasn't pleasant at all, but it was the only way. Examples from abroad. If you go to Austria for example. On the A1 motorway to Linz, you'll see the gates, I mean on the toll gate highway, which already has variable markings installed today. This variable marking, as my previous speaker said through Mr President, works there and determines not only the whole communication but also the individual lanes. And now let's not talk about three-way highways in the Czech Republic, because again, I repeat, the legislation is clear - trucks can pass, but they can only operate in those two lanes. As far as the police are concerned, the previous speaker, colleague Stanjura, through Mr President. Police of the Czech Republic, yes, should carry out activities so that there are no offences and violations of laws in the Czech Republic on these roads. But unfortunately. Unfortunately, this is equal to (a) the number of highway police and (b) the possibility of highway police. I don't know which one of you is on these highways, but it's important to remember how many motorway stops we have, how many so-called. motorway rests, whether state or private. Well, they just aren't. Can you imagine that the Police of the Czech Republic will try to pull those trucks that do not keep distance or pass where they do not? Well, the highway rests, in my estimate, will be filled in about two hours, and then the police will do what? Does that mean what comes from what I said? Firstly, today there is legislation of the Czech Republic that can technically solve this problem. Secondly, it is only up to the Ministry of Transport to try to address this situation with variable markings, which means the way the law allows them to. By the third time, the Ministry of Transport, after which the Road and Motorway Directorate built commercial rests on motorways in the Czech Republic, even the possibilities of commercial rest so that trucks could then be punished, better to say truck drivers could be punished for breaking the law. In my opinion, this is the way. I'm very sorry the Minister of Transport isn't here. When I see him in the lobby, I'd like to ask him if he's released the weather girl who told him that it's not freezing and snowing in the Czech Republic on December 15th. I'd like to ask you all as a transporter to consider this amendment of the law. I understand that it was triggered - and I don't care if a colleague presented it in November or December because she is caused by the stress we're experiencing on those highways, and it doesn't matter if it's really in that or the month, but to consider whether we're supporting this amendment in the course of her discussion, because the initial effect for each of us legislators, when we saw those crazy columns that were in the Highlands, those people who were standing there in the frost, was: that's not possible, no one can go through there, not the police, nor the ambulance, for God's sake, those trucks have nothing to do here. But the immediate effect of our perception of the situation when we saw it on TV, or some of us driving on D1, with our own eyes, should go away. It should expire in favour of the system solution within the framework of transport of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u33	Thank you. A point of fact will be taken by Mr Svoboda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to what has been said here and to respond also to you, my colleague, through the President, because I really have hundreds of thousands of kilometres along the highway and I do not want to say how many miles around America. That's all there is to it. Yes, the gateways that will have changing brands. It's all true, it's all true. It's true that we don't respect offenses, and it's true that America doesn't have that problem. But you know why? Just because it's being prosecuted. If we don't make sure there's a chance of catching and punishing the missing drivers in some form, it won't work. [[18.00 hours]] In America, if you go and overtake an unauthorized speed or get out of the lane by restricting someone, the devil will jump out of that bush in the middle, and he'll pick you up, or he'll convict you in the nearest village. There's nothing going on here. If we do the marking variables on the gates, what happens? Everyone looks at it and nothing happens. If we don't punish, deal with the offenses, then it won't work. We can't solve the traffic, they're in Germany. But we should deal with offenses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u35	Thank you. Mr Plzák will respond with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u36	Thank you. Just a brief factual remark. So I used to ride in America, too. And that's not what my fellow Svoboda said. It's just so you can't bribe that cop, so he's not going to cash you in. He will say to you: The next day you will arrive there and there at the judge, and he will give you a time when your transgression will be dealt with, and you will explain to him why you quickly drove, if you went to the hospital, if you were in a hurry and so on. So it's not like he's cashing you in now. On the contrary, your stay in America can be unexpectedly extended by, like, two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u37	Thank you. In the debate, Mr Klaus, followed by Mr Vácha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u38	I would also like to comment on this bill. First of all, I was interested in Mr Onderka's speech by you and his significant attacks on the Ministry of Transport. Well, that's an interesting report on the state of the coalition and, more importantly, the criticism that the infrastructure isn't. Because I feel that since 1996, which I suspect is 23 years old, you've ruled for, like, 15 or 16, the Social Democratic Party, so why the infrastructure isn't, it's pretty obvious. The second thing I want to say. Of course, I don't often like to take the freeway, and there are those truck races where one goes 80 and the other goes 80. It's like nobody likes that. But I can't shake the impression when I see this bill, look at the history of caring. It started by driving the vehicle and running in front of him an orderly with a flag and a whistle in his mouth. And I'm afraid that by all these regulations, by constantly reducing engine power, combustion, regulation, speed limitation, we're going back to this time. And fortunately, I won't be able to experience it anymore because I'm 50 years old, but I regret my children. And to this very law. It has already been mentioned here, I have also seen Mrs Jarošová, I also have in my hand the position of the Association of Driving Schools of the Czech Republic. [[It shows the plenary record with the document.]] Well, what can I say? Laws that arise on the basis of an immediate situation are mostly wrong. So sometimes December 16 collapsed D1, it wasn't at all passable, it was horrible, and we - 20 December is loaded by the law on overtaking trucks. That's not what caused the situation. It caused the weather, the fact that the highway was still being repaired, I don't know who's got the tires from the truckers and all that. But that's not the solution. The situation will actually turn out as several speakers have said, which means that the right lane will be driven by trucks, and in the left lane it will be driven by the slowest moving vehicle, which, as we all know, a lot of people drive 90 miles an hour on the highway for consumption. That's just the way it is, I don't blame these people, but just go there. The nervousness of the cars that want to go a little faster with the 100, that's where it's gonna be enormous. I don't know what kind of cases there are: honking, lighting, people aren't sanctimonious. Any limitation of traffic flow is usually not good. And one last thing. There are probably a lot more passenger drivers, but we're also thinking a little bit about truck drivers. This job is very hard, so this is another regulation that they can't, how many times they have to stand, where they can't cost, how many hours they can go. They're also in a hurry to get home, they want to get there at that time of eight hours, so it's just a very stressful job. And now, in fact, forbid them to drive around a vehicle that someone pulls off so they can't get past it and get into the left lane at all, is a thing that doesn't help much. I'm not going to propose a rejection of this law because it's going to be done by a fellow Adamec, but I have a lot of sympathy for it, and I consider this law pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vácha now, Mr Adamec after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wonder if those who signed the bill even know the law, because this is already in the law. This is already in the law. My colleague Onderka said that if we have three lanes, the trucks or the slow ones aren't allowed to ride in the left lane, that's some section I think 12. But he did not mention § 36: drivers on the motorway are forbidden - and now beware - a truck driver of a total weight exceeding 3.5 tonnes and a train driver of a total length exceeding 7 metres must not overtake another vehicle unless it has sufficient speed to overtake it, so it would limit - the word is important - in driving other vehicles with its significantly lower driving speed. Paragraph 2 defines the restriction and the limitation means the obligation to act in such a way that another participant is not in any way hindered by the operation. So if a truck goes and wants to overtake another vehicle and gets in the way of overtaking someone else, it violates traffic regulations, there should be police and that police should act. If we put in that law immediately after point four of the proposed point five, this proposed point, nothing will change. As long as the police aren't there and they don't demand compliance, nothing's gonna change, 'cause we already have it today. In my opinion, it's a completely, completely useless law. I don't know if you read it when you wrote it. But it's pretty clear that trucks can't pass today. If we approve, they won't be allowed to pass even when the highway is completely empty. Two trucks go, one goes 70, he can go 70, I'm convinced Bartoň's colleague is right, and the other one goes 85, and he can't overtake him. Totally empty highways! In my opinion, it's nonsense. The moment there's an empty highway, I'll allow the truck to pass. That's what paragraph four says. And then there's the note on the combination set. You know, and it's already mentioned here, me and the guys riding bikes, so we have Land Rover Discovery, which is four meters, 4 970 millimeters, less than five meters, and we're dragging a bike car that also has four meters, so we're a combination of over seven meters. That car could be a hundred and thirty. So we're gonna have to go between those trucks where the first truck goes on the 70, even though we could drive the 130 that the law allows us to do. So I consider this amendment to the law a complete nonsense. Total nonsense. It's a useless novel. It's already in the law today. We're doing a lot better than that. And until the Police of the Czech Republic works, I don't know, you all have a driver's license, you all drive here, and I'm convinced that many of you drive abroad. I will not name, I do not want to touch anyone or myself, but how many tickets you have received in the Czech Republic and how many tickets you have received in Austria for a fast ride, or in France for a quick ride where you are taken, you will receive a letter in Czech saying you have to pay 30 or 100 euros because you drove too fast. The police work abroad. Our place, unfortunately. I don't criticize the police for not working. I'm criticizing a system that won't force the police or give the police the means to work. So that's all for me and the TOP 09. And of course, I don't know if anyone's ever proposed to reject it, so we'd like to join in rejecting the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u41	Mr. Ambassador, no one suggested a rejection. Are you proposing rejection? Okay. So far, it has not been proposed, it has been proposed to return the proposal for completion, which was proposed by the rapporteur Polanský. There will now be factual remarks in this order: Mrs Kořanová, Mr Veselý, Mr Kolovratník and Mr Ventruba. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u42	Unfortunately, I have to go to my previous speaker through the Vice-President: the permitted speed of trucks over 3.5 tonnes in the Czech Republic is 80 kilometers per hour. Period. Next thing. I know Section 36 of the Road Act very well. But why isn't it enough? Because, first of all, no one is following him at all, which, of course, is the police's responsibility, I completely agree with that. But for another - he's hard, very hard to enforce. That's the point. Because there aren't enough camera systems, it can't be looked after, so it's really a matter of enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u43	Thank you. Mr Veselý, with a factual remark. After that, Mr. Kolovratník. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I also have to respond to my colleague Vácha, although I appreciate him very much. The thought that Section 36 is functional and that it actually introduces is very theoretical. My colleague Kořanová said it as strongly as she did, I'm really gonna say it as a lawyer. Basically, it means it's a completely unenforceable thing. Try to go through as a police officer or an administrative officer when you will prove to the driver whether he has actually limited or not. You'll never get it together, and it's absolutely impossible with the length of a misdemeanor trial. We need to figure out if we want those trucks to block the lanes or not. If this is the luckiest model, I don't know. But Section 36 is really completely theoretical and unusable in practice. Trust me. I'm telling you this as a lawyer, that's where you'll never get to prove it to the driver. I'm going to make up one particular case, one that I'm making up right now, not that I'm experiencing, but that I'm making up. The truck's on its way, behind the corner, looking at the rear-view mirror and seeing no one. He's gonna drive up there, and the way we all know it, he's gonna drive 92, the one he's passing is 90. So there's a ten-mile front behind them. Did you or didn't you? When we say limited, it's logical, we say limited, it's fine. But he says, "How could I know I'd cut back if I didn't see anybody there?" So I wouldn't be allowed to pass at all. And it would be night, even day. And here's the chance to say at all, or we're gonna blow it off, and then the situation is just gonna be the way it is on the road. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u45	Thank you. Mr kolovratník, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u46	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I am signed up for a proper debate, and in a few moments I will appeal to you or beg you to give this proposal a chance. And I respect the position of my opponents in Section 90. But I believe that if we agree to a proper discussion, that we can also talk about a few options of these solutions and maybe find what will be passed or identical for most of the Chamber of Deputies. But I'll say that in a minute. Now I wanted it to be logical to respond to Mr Vácha. When I listened, I will probably repeat the words of my colleague Barbora Kořanová and Mr Ondřej Veselý. She is right that the law - and we have read it, believe us that we have read it very carefully - assumes to some extent that in this Section 36, which is Section 2 of the Law, so explicitly says that it must not be exceeded if it is limited. And it's been said how we're going to judge whether or not to restrict, from some camera footage, etc. But he, for example, also § 19 of this law in paragraph. 3 says that the driver who overtakes, I apologize, not which passes, but which is classified - and this is the reaction to Zbyněk Stanjura, who is no longer present - so that he must maintain a safe distance that allows safe inclusion. So right here, I could kind of argue that there's going to be some kind of endless front or a column of trucks that can't be included in. Because the law already says in another paragraph that the safe distance to be assigned to another passer-by must be respected. But once again, let's remember and try to think about it in real terms, whether this is even controllable or not. What we want to say by this proposal is that it is clearly described precisely, for example. like in Slovakia - and my time is up, so I'll say it in a proper application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u47	Sorry, time's really up. Mr Ventruba is still registered with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, allow me to respond to my previous speakers. I used to drive in the United States, too. I used to drive in Germany, Slovakia. I have to say, I used to ride better in the U.S., as well as in Germany. Every country has its laws. I'd just like to say that I'm right about the fact that if there were trucks in that right lane and there was a passenger car in the left lane that would drive 90 for consumption, as was said, it would have a problem. But I want to be objective, and I'd like to say things that I've been thinking about based on what a colleague here has said. It sounded like we had good laws and that the cops could handle it. And secondly, they won't be able to turn right. If there were truck spacings, as are given in some countries, either lines or 150 meters, or I don't know how many, I guess you could turn around. And the second thing that I'm doing my interpelation for, and Minister Took is not here, I wanted to ask him: if the cop who can give the tickets now, and it was criticized that he wouldn't give because he doesn't have where. I want to ask why they're all on our highway, I'm driving from Prague to Brno, those parking spaces are blocked so the cars can get in. So, really, the cop in the current situation, if he stopped those trucks on the highway, he's gonna cause an even bigger problem. So Minister Took isn't here, so when he comes, I'll ask him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u49	Thank you. Now in the debate, Mr Adamec, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u50	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, esteemed translators, let me also say something for myself here on this bill. I must say that I am very surprised that there are bills on the agenda of this meeting, and there are seven proposed in the 90s, in a shortened regime. That really seems very strange to me. And the topics are not entirely impunity. And this one is really excellent, because it's an MP proposal, and we're supposed to be dealing with it again in the '90s. We, of course, gave the veto. But when I listen to this debate, it really borders on people's creativity and how we all have some experience somewhere in America, somewhere in Europe, etc., and we want to do a pretty serious thing here where there's just two opinions - one says that trucks are supposed to go in the right lane and that nothing happens, the other opinion says that it's wrong, that it should only be done somewhere and that, of course, if you want to go on the highway, sometimes at night when those trucks can pass. I understand that this is a subject that we're interested in, that trucks piss everyone off. On the other hand, we all go shopping, we all want to send something in e-shop etc. I've heard such opinions here, so let them translate it into the vans. Like, it's the economy, we're not gonna cover it up again, it's probably going to go somewhere centrally, and then it's going to distribute again. It's just trucks are part of normal life. That those truckers drive the way they do sometimes on that highway, on those roads, we have our experience with that. It's not like we like it, either, that they follow the rules. They're just feeling the size, they're having the shack, they're loading those tons, so they feel safe, and they can afford anything. But that's the problem again. [[18.20 hours]] This is where we talked about the highway police. So please, when you say how you get tickets from Europe -- well, great, that's where they get it automatically. It's automatically there. Those fines are usually double, either from the state police, or from the municipal authorities whose highways are running on, where they put the radars. They earn money as much as in the Czech Republic, especially somewhere, because de facto the penalty is only economic and does not interfere with the point system. So I have to say, really, don't be mad at me, dealing with this in the '90s, it's so daring to bring it up here in front of the Chamber of Deputies that we should all, like, be very careful. Because then we say we're useless here. If I take the debate that's been going on here for an hour, maybe longer, and the arguments that have been going on here, the experience of my own, I think it really is a proposal that should be prepared by the professional government. We're just saying that we've had a disaster on D1 in the winter. They waited there for four hours or how long. I don't know. I drive around Europe and it happened to me many times in Germany, in France, just because the highway didn't go. And when I asked the statistics about the situation in the Czech Republic, please, I'll tell you the number. I looked it up: 98 percent of the time the highway runs in the Czech Republic. There's two percent. Unfortunately, it concentrated in the same event in winter, when, of course, yes, I understand that, in the context of the political struggle, we explained our concepts here with the Minister, impressions, but nothing happened at all. As far as I'm concerned. I understand. We all think that our opinion will just solve it and we'll push it through here if we get the majority. But I think the road to hell is paved with good intentions. And I would put this bill here, which at first glance looks very clear, into this category. I'm warning you. On those committees, if you want to send it to the committee, we're not gonna solve anything. It's a professional thing. The Ministry should deal with this. Appropriate institutions that do statistics and stuff like that. We can say here how great it is and how it works in America. Well, I've had experience with traffic police in the Czech Republic so much that I've always been jumped out by those masked out of the bushes in an unmarked car. They took my points, my money. Finally, a driver's license. But unfortunately, that's all I've ever seen from them. Unless they're dealing with an accident that they're going to put in the stats that they're dealing with some kind of misdemeanor, that's all the traffic police are dealing with except accidents and speed. Let's not take the illusion that they're going to measure the distances of the trucks. Even today you're banned from overtaking trucks on the freeway. They're totally ignoring it like they don't even know the brands. And they all do that, including strangers. They wouldn't dare at home, but they know very well here, if they don't pass the speed limit, they'll get shot down on that freeway if they don't. By the way, we're all driving to Prague on our highways from our regions. And when we arrive in Prague, exactly the situation arises when both lanes of the highway become - except D1, where is the third lane, to be exact, at D11 it is only in one direction unfortunately at the exit from Prague, not at the exit from Prague. So we get into the situation that both stripes are slow stripes, because always on the right, someone drives slowly, there's a line behind him. On the left, someone's going slow, there's a line behind him. And we've all been driving to Prague for the last ten miles. And if that's how you want to apply it to the entire length of the freeway, you can have it. I say it's wrong that we should be interested in the flow of traffic. That the greatest danger today is not the higher speed, but it's an disproportionate speed, whether to the nature of the car we're driving or the communication. But unfortunately, that's an incalculable factor. So let's not illusion that the police will solve the problems we have on those highways for us. By the way, flat bans have always gone wrong. That human experience is in a number of cases. I'm not gonna name this place. In a number of activities, some countries have tried to apply this. Some as significant as America, the United States of America. As it turned out, we all know. And what's important to me is that if we create something here or the government brings it to us, we approve it, we modify it, we discuss that we can also enforce it on those citizens that law enforcement will be here. This bill doesn't solve it at all. I think I really... Plus, it's misspelled. I think that we should reject this at first reading and that the Government and the Ministry of Transport and the Minister should address this situation on the motorways in a professional manner. Just like that, with no emotions, so we can just get material here that we can approve with a clear conscience. So, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that I reject this bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will deal with the motion for rejection after the general debate has been concluded. We'll continue with that. Mr Válek is next, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u52	Good late afternoon or early evening, ladies and gentlemen. I've never driven a car in America. Just an apology to start with. And on the other hand, I left Brno this morning after D1. At Jihlava, I was sure I would support this law. About 50 kilometers behind Jihlava, when a third truck made me a mouse, I thought 100 percent in 90. And just before Prague, I was thinking about tightening up, which I would suggest as a changeling. [[Fun in the hall, laughter.]] In the meantime, I calmed down. The scientist and the doctor overtook me. Just quick solutions, simple solutions, are bad solutions. I think that every one of us on the freeway is experiencing the same emotions. Basically, everyone but us is the archenemies who keep us from running smoothly. On the other hand, I went from Vienna to Brno on Sunday. I set 130 on the speedometer. Tempomat was holding it there. No one was passing me, no one was flashing at me, no one was hitting on me. They were all kind of in the left lane of the 130. Today, when I did the same thing from Brno to Prague, after ten kilometers, I was the archenemy of all the people who drove 140, 150, 160. There was no lane for me! It was too slow on the right. It was too fast on the left. My 130 just doesn't fit on the freeway. I'm a bad driver, I'm aware of that. So I can get back to what I originally wanted to get off with. I think it is necessary, through the President, to support what my previous speaker has said. We're missing data, we're missing information. I would be very interested in the analysis from the Minister of Transport, so what is the structure of those trucks that drive on the highway, how they change. I did an analysis with the students. I was trying to figure out how the truck structure was changing at all. Whether there's more trucks from some countries that are truck types, whether we're transit or what kind of country we are. This is the data I would like to ask for, and so I would like to ask for it with this. The second thing I miss. What is the structure of traffic offences on the D1 motorway? I suppose the highway police are somehow giving some tickets to someone, so I'm very interested to know what offences have happened most often in the last six months. Which the highway police are most focused on. What is what he considers to be the biggest problem of the current situation on D1 - I suppose that's why he's focusing on it. Finally, I would like to say what all my previous speakers, or the overwhelming majority of them said, that highway police for various reasons, because it cannot be technically, or because it does not have competence for this, or for other reasons, does not essentially enforce existing legislation and is not able to insist on its compliance and it is not possible for it to apply fines, as in some Western European countries it is relatively common. From this point of view, I think that putting in place further restrictions that should be sanctioned, without saying to ourselves here, could be controlled without any way to guard and enforce, is pure alibiism. If we don't know how we're going to enforce this restriction, then there's no point in talking about it. I would very much like an intensive expert discussion on this subject, because little valid, simply no quick solution, which would bring the motorways and extend by one lane, we will probably not find. There's no quick solution where we can build new special gates or a system to warn the driver within a year. Nevertheless, we should try to cultivate the environment on motorways so that the ride is as stressful as possible and as smooth as possible. And I dare to repeat the word fluent once more. Because I think there's a huge problem with driving on the D1 motorway and on all the other highways, there's a lack of continuity in the two lanes or in the three lanes that are there. [[18.30 hours]] The fact that trucks are in all three lanes makes it happen that even in the left lane, when there are three lanes, someone rides in the 80's, 70's - all that can happen, let it happen. But a systematic effort for continuity, which would really be based on a detailed analysis of the data relating to the truck structure, some estimates of what might be waiting for us in the next six months, year, two or five years as far as truck traffic in the Czech Republic is concerned, and an analysis of offences, those that are most essential to prevent fluency, and information from the Ministry of the Interior, how they will focus on these offences so that they do not occur, that is what I would like to hear and what would be very helpful in deciding how to treat these individual proposals, this or similar, and how to treat them without emotions, so as to benefit all drivers who use not only motorways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Nacher's factual remarks, Mr Vondrák, will follow. In the meantime, I will introduce you to Mr Mikuláš Peksa's apology, today at 18 o'clock for work reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I'm going to surprise you when I say I didn't want to say anything about this. But I listened carefully to my colleague Adamec, who I can't see now - there he is, I can see - and he said if I'm gonna quote it well: " 98 percent of the highway runs and it's only exceptionally and that there isn't much on the Czech motorways." I would even agree with him that it concentrated on one event that happened. I agree. Then I don't understand why you've been grilling Minister Took twice, as if there's been an event here that would be responsible directly for and caused by the Minister of Transport. If we agree that 98 percent drive, and now we use it in this proposal, and I agree with it, then the fact that you didn't drive here before, but maybe somebody else was grilling the Minister of Transport because it was politically appropriate. So either they're either paying one or they're paying the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u55	Have a good evening. Mr Ivo Vondrák, with a point of fact, will now be prepared by Mr Ivan Adamec. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u56	Just a very brief one. It was said here that it was a simple solution. Albert Einstein said, "Let's look for things as simple as possible, but not easier than we can." That's his quote. And I think that's true of this law, too. I don't think we should globalize this either. I think that adaptive methods, which would be set according to current and so on, are available here. Oh, please, it's hard to force yourself today that the law says no one can limit you. They're putting you in danger today. Today, life on the freeway isn't about who's going fast or slow. The point is, the speed difference is getting dramatic and it's becoming a dangerous life. So I'd rather intercede for letting go of the law and talk about how to set it up so that we can really avoid the situations that today are. I'll be honest with you, I live on that D1 thing, it's a really big deal. It's a big problem. Today, a truck really drives into your left lane, even though it knows you're there, he's not just gonna cut you down, he's gonna put you in jeopardy, and he doesn't care. And there's even a line of trucks, the left lane goes, and because they're pissed, they're gonna stop you, they're gonna go in there, and they're gonna brake the whole left lane. Please, these are things that need to be dealt with. I understand that the bill is simplistic, but let's talk about how to adjust it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u57	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Ivan Adamec, so far, the final point in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u58	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would like to respond to Mr Nacher. I said it like this, it was meant to have the Minister's barbecue here, because it just came in handy. I remember myself, too. I didn't interpel him at all in case of D1, because I was able to understand it very well. But that meeting was enforced by someone else, and I was talking about it. So I would ask you not to press it directly to me here, as it was now, through Mr President. By the way, when I hear that someone is in favour of doing it with variable brands, sectionally - somewhere it's needed - and then they say let's do it again, I really don't understand it, because it's going directly against each other. This bill is simply undisputed, wrong, and I think the solution must be found in another way, in another way, the Ministry and the appropriate authorities must do it and present it to us, including an analysis of how they imagine it will work. This is not the way - this proposal!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u59	Now with a factual remark by the chairman of the ANO member's club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Mr. Vácha will be ready. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u60	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr Vice-President, I would like to thank everyone for the debate that is constructive. The aim of this proposal was to open this debate, because we have unfortunately not talked about this situation until today. And whether it's a parliamentary or ministerial journey, I don't care at the moment. Unlike my colleague Adamec, I think there might be a way through here. If there is a majority that lets this law into second reading, then everything that has been said here, including the opinions of experts - ČESMAD, carriers, police and so on - can be taken into account there so that it may come out that we are dealing with the situation on motorways in the Czech Republic by law, that it may come out - and now I don't want to anticipate anything - because, like most of you, I also spend my life on D1, but it's not just about D1, in which we all agree - that in winter in some months on some sections where only two lanes are needed, there will be a brand that bans it. I know you're gonna make an argument to me that it's possible today, but the law that makes it clear has a higher legal force, clearly, and it's some kind of signal that we wanted to send. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u61	So now the applications have been filed for de facto, I have four. So Mr. Vácha will be the first to speak, Mr. Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u62	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond to my colleague Vondrák. He said a case where there is no restriction, but there is a threat - and then I would turn to my colleague Veselý, that is a clear case of when the police can intervene in any way, but she will not intervene. But she's not gonna intervene, even if we have this law, because some surveillance footage, if the driver goes and sends the police that he's shot something, or from the CCTV footage from the highways, the police just won't deal with it. As long as the police don't require strict law on the freeway, it doesn't matter what section we have there. I am convinced that paragraph 4 of the current text is completely sufficient. For this reason, I saw that the Committee on Economic Affairs was proposed as a guarantee committee, so I would also like to propose a Security Committee. I might even suggest it as a guarantee, because it's not about the economy, it's about security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u63	Now, with Mr Ferjenčík's factual remark, then in order. Mr Stanjura will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond very briefly to my colleague, Faltýnek, who said that the YES movement wanted to open this debate with this proposal. If you want to open up a debate on a legislative problem, then propose a law under Section 90, which is directly approved at first reading without any discussion in the committees, I don't think that is the right way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u65	Now Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please. So far the final de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u66	I'm going to respond here to President Faltýnek. We don't really need that law. Many previous speakers have said that this is already allowed by the existing law. That's right. What we might consider is whether Minister Took will bring the yeti, the point system he's been talking about for three years to bring him in is to increase sanctions. For example, when the truck is in the left lane, where it is not allowed. That's not the law. That's in another law. We are prepared for such a debate because it must seem like a deterrent. The fine simply has to be forceful so that it affects the owner of the transport company economically, not the driver, and then he is able to enforce compliance with the law with his employees. But I'm going back to what I said about an hour ago. Where's the traffic police report, how's it going today? If they're not there today, if we only have a few sections, the idea that it's going to be everywhere and the police are going to interfere, I think it's naive. [[18.40 hours]] Now allow me a personal comment for Mr Vondrák. I understand. I'm from the same region, but I spend my life on a train, not after D1. This is the right way to avoid D1 because it is just a good track Ostrava - Prague. I think everyone in my county will confirm that. That train's been going about half an hour. You can choose from three carriers. I'm not gonna promote either of them. And that's the best way. And the second way to help D1, is to do D35, because we're going down to Brno senselessly to go back. For my colleagues from Prague, I always say what I say in the north of you, so I say that Prague is norther than Opava, but this is the illogical D1 leading. If we want to lighten D1, the best way is D35. Now it's started or it's gonna start building a section. That's the right way to make D1 easier. But what about the second reading, what are we gonna do about it, what are we gonna do? Nothing. We only have two options. Either there will be a general ban - and we many say that this is pointless. [[Time warning]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u67	I do not now have another factual one, so in the general debate, Mr Kolovratník. Please, you have the floor. And so far, the last application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u68	Thank you for the floor. I've announced that I'm going to say my request or my appeal to you. A plea in the sense that you release the law into the next reading and we try. ODS colleagues say we can't come up with anything. I think we have a chance to think of something. And let me illustrate one of the possible examples, one of the possible solutions. We've done the analysis, and we've got some materials, we've got the materials. Specifically, in my case, from the Slovak Auto Club, how the situation in Slovakia works. They've been banned there for about ten years. They went that way when they banned the overtaking, so they also offered the carriers an increase in the minimum speed. Currently trucks go there in the 90's, and that overtaking is forbidden. It's in their law No. 8/2009. And such an interesting thing. Slovaks still have that law No. 24/7, i.e. nonstop, and now they're preparing a novel where they want to alleviate it and want to give it just from the six, in their case five o'clock in the morning to ten o'clock in the evening, as it is proposed at this moment in our proposal, and they want to say in fact that overtaking the climb with three or more lanes is possible. And the concerns that have been raised here that there will be a long, endless column of trucks and so forth, so the Slovák have them again - and I said that here today - exactly named. They don't just generally say not to overtake unless there's enough speed and so on. It is paragraph 35 (1) of their law - they say that a vehicle that travels less than 80 kilometers per hour is an obstacle to road traffic and is to leave the highway. And here, in my next argument, I give my colleagues the truth. From practice we have verified - it is news from Slovakia - that the Slovak police do the possible deflecting of a truck or blocking very strictly fined and for them also gives much higher fines than in our case. And here's what you say about the traffic police, colleagues, you're right. I'm saying this as an illustration example, as one of the possible ways. I am not saying that we can finally agree on it, but I want to illustrate that I am convinced that if we release the law into committee, into economic - now I am also speaking here as chairman of the Transport Sub-Committee, which I like, even for a few rounds, I can call on the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the transport police, the carriers - I am convinced that we can find the solution. The sum of what I want, colleagues, to ask - let's give this proposal a chance. Let's let him go into the standard process. Of course, let's not cut short the deadline. On the contrary, we can talk about extending the time limits, it's spring, summer, we've got a long way to go in those winter crashes. I believe we can find the solution. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u69	This is the last application for a general debate so far. Yes. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u70	No, I didn't say everything. I'm out of time. I was disciplined, thanked for the heads-up. I'll get back to it. So what can we think of in this second reading? So either a flat ban - we're against - or intelligent traffic signs and we can do those today. We can debate. I'm in. Let's do a seminar, but we don't need any legislative pasquil at second reading. That's not gonna do any good for the debate. We're just gonna make this quick because we're gonna say we have to. And if 60 or 80 days on my mind is an endless debate over this bill, it really doesn't matter. The minister told me that yeti is already in the inter-departmental system. We'll see what comes of it and what the Chamber of Deputies will do about it. I'm quite skeptical about it, but I just think this is a misdemeanor that should be punished really severely. But that's what he wants -- there's still no Home Secretary here, I don't know where he is -- because I'm talking about traffic, and just one by one, we're saying our own experience here, and we're saying the truth is that the police aren't actually trying to enforce it. And I agree that these are very dangerous situations, that the big one threatens the small ones. I think each of us has experienced it for once, that on the freeway, someone, whether they're throwing you a flashlight or not, suddenly crams in front of you, and you're slowing down like crazy, and you're happy to have some space between the slides, and that somehow you've survived the situation. But that's just not what our traffic police are dealing with. But it's capable of constantly measuring speed. That's a lot easier, of course, those pictures and ten thousand offenses a day, and we heard the press conference on those deadlines. The Minister of Transport will confirm to me how many drivers have driven more than 80 where the 80s are. But that's not what the police are asking for. The first step should be: consistent pressure of the Home Secretary on the police. The new police president, if you have noticed, as one of the priorities he said "road safety" when he entered his post. I agree with that in principle, but I need to see some facts, some activity. And much safer and much more effective is the police right on that road. That's the biggest prevention. Whoever sees a police car from afar is automatically checking the speedometer, taking his foot off the gas. It's so much better than those cameras that just produce pictures. It may be filling some cashiers, but it doesn't lead to any improvement in road safety. And even though the trial is so long. That means -- and I have cases from our club, I'm not going to name them, in January he gets subpoenaed to drive fast in May. Well, if it's supposed to be preventive when you can't even remember where he was going in May, that's just not how it works. If there's anything good in this debate, I think it's for the Home Secretary to press the police to enforce the laws currently in force. I think that's the key to that. And then we can have fun, potentially have fun, if it turns out we need to change the law. I don't think so. I'm saying, the smart road signs are a much better solution. And if we want to punish this, the solution will be to change the point system. I don't know, for the engineer, I was surprised today by the Minister, but especially here in this area, I think it's really dangerous behavior. And these people aren't exceeding maximum speed. It's not a problem that they're driving 140 with the truck, but they're really dangerous, and because they're big, they're putting themselves at risk, not just themselves, but they're putting other road users at risk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u71	I've got some real notes coming in. Three. Four. First, Mrs Barbora Kořanová and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u72	Thank you for the floor. Mr President Stanjur, by your means, Mr President - it is not that the police do not enforce. She can't enforce. And for the simple reason - I'll tell you the situation from practice. The police car will stop the passing truck. Classic situation. He asks, Mr. Driver - how I hate to address you - Mrs. Or Miss Driver. So he says, "How much did you drive?" He says eighty-five. He says, "What's your speed limit?" And he says, I don't know, about 80 something. Because the drivers don't even know how much speed they're allowed. Okay. He'll write him a block ticket, hand it over. He says I don't have any cash. This isn't here, this isn't here, and no one will ever see him again if he's a foreign national. Today, the highway police or the Police of the Czech Republic are making bail. Whether it works or doesn't work, I don't know. I'll try to find out, but it's not that he's not. She really can't enforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u73	Another factual point, Mr Leo Luzar, will be prepared by Mr Běhounek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u74	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'll try to be short. This is not the first debate on this subject. This House has already had this debate once before, and that's when we all let ourselves be lulled down by simply being about drivers, about the appeal, about the fact that cops are supposed to work. And the representative of the driver said, "Don't be crazy, it's gonna cost, and the drivers, we're gonna try to talk to them and we're gonna deal with them." Nothing happened. Trucks get worse. It has to do with the fact that today's driver's profession is not what we would appreciate, and appreciate, who rides a million without accidents or anything like that. But we think of these people as, "Do you want to ride?" You have ads all over the place: Come on. Of course, the quality of these drivers is also dropping sharply. Let's just say that. And that's causing some problems, too. [[18.50 hours]] On the other hand, there are two options. First, place the plates everywhere. No overtaking. That's what colleagues here are suggesting as opponents of this draft - forbid it with marks. Or maybe there's a second option - ban it across the highways and put the signs where it's allowed. We don't have that brand yet, but it's a second reading option. Just allow where we feel it is safe to go and do not brake traffic, allow overtaking trucks by other slower vehicles. Now let's talk about what's better and what's better for transport and for fluency. We already have experience that preventing overtaking does not work. And we can make excuses whether the police work or don't work. It just doesn't work. Let's try the other way around. But it's about discussion. It's about the fact that we should discuss this on the committee and look for this path. And if the unfortunate choice of ninety in this law was probably a problem, but it's just about discussing this problem that we have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u75	Another point of fact, Mr Běhounek. Mrs Procházková, Mr Válek, Mr Svoboda, Mr Stanjura, will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ministers who are present are absolutely factual. [[There are three of them in the room.]] I think I have an experience, so I dealt with the police. Police on the freeway can't stop any cars. He has to take him. He has to take him somewhere he can deal with him. Where's he gonna take him? To the exit point. That means he'll just block it. That's the problem we're still talking about. If there's no parking space and there's no parking lot for trucks and other cars so the police can figure it out, it's not gonna work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u77	Another factual point, Mrs Procházková. Mr. Válek will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u78	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. I'll give you an example of my own experience. In France, I crossed a speed of one kilometer. They didn't leave me alone. For months, I received letters, alerts, fines until I paid for it. Why don't we do it here? We know that these problems on the highways are mainly caused by foreign drivers. Foreign! Ours are keeping it. They're not doing very well here. Then why don't we try it? Why don't we go over there and see how the Francouz do it? They've got cameras on the highway, they're gonna click on you, and they're gonna send it to you. And they're sending it to you until you pay for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u79	Another point of fact, Mr Válek. Mr. Svoboda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I will, through Mr President, agree with Mr Běhounek and, in principle, with the Member, basically because the police really cannot enforce a fine. I guess so. Then let's talk about the law where this is anchored, and change it so that the police can enforce a fine. Yes, trucks or cars that commit an offence cannot be stopped by police on the freeway. He's got to put them somewhere. Yes, so let's solve this problem and focus on it. We know there's some misdemeanors on the highway. So once again, I ask the Home Secretary to give us an analysis of the offences that the highway police consider to be the priority and most threatening traffic on the highway, how they deal with them and how they are opposed to them. Infraction analysis. What's to focus on on that freeway? But no matter how many of these three points I take, I don't know how they're gonna figure it out if we ban it - I'm not stopping it from moving on - overtaking trucks. The cops won't have a place to put them anyway. They won't be able to get the ticket out of them anyway. So what's practically gonna change? We'll calm down that we've done everything we can to somehow improve traffic on the D1 motorway. But if what my previous speakers have said here, whether it be a Member of Parliament or not, we don't get a ticket out of them and we can't shut down the truck, then what's practically gonna change? From my point of view, nothing as a driver.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u81	Another point of fact, Mr Svoboda. Mr Stanjura will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u82	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, Mr President, to turn on your behalf to the petitioner. My question is very simple. What happens if we accept the law the way you suggest it? How will the police work change? How are the cars going to shut down? How's he gonna enforce the fine? What do you have in mind that this law will solve the problem? You're saying that the problem arises because we don't have a chance to prosecute the driver, to fine the driver. How will this law change that so that we can have that option? That is my only fundamental question, which if you answer me, I will not agree with you, but it will be understandable to me, because at this point, I do not understand what you are trying to achieve by law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u83	Another point of fact, Prime Minister... Not anymore. And now, then, Mr Klaus. Please. No, I don't. So at this point, I don't have any more applications for the general debate. I'd rather look around the corner and not overlook Mr Pávek, třeba. No, no, no. Okay. [[Fun in the hall. Chairman Stanjura is waving his hand.]] So you're still going? So you changed your mind. Chairman of ODS Stanjura. But I'm gonna read an apology because if you'd spoken any longer, I wouldn't be able to read it anymore. Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes from today's meeting from 18.50 to the end of the meeting day. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u84	I canceled my point of order because I wanted to say the same thing as my fellow Member, Mr Svoboda, said. But I would expect an answer before we vote, because here's the error in the logic of the petitioner's approach. And it was vaguely described by Professor Svoboda. Today we are banned from overtaking selected sections, and the petitioners themselves say that we are unable to enforce it. And the solution is that we're going to make it a total ban. And logically, the question that the Professor Svoboda has said here, and I would like to know the answer - what will change besides that, now I think we can't enforce on D1 at 50 kilometers, so next time we won't enforce on 370 kilometers? So I'm really interested in the answer. I ask the petitioner or one of the other translators, whether it is not up to her to answer the question raised by the Donate Svoboda, because this is important for our vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u85	So I'm going to take another look around. [[Chairman Faltynek shouts: Now vote!]] Mr. Chairman, don't tell me how to run a meeting. I'll take care of it. I am ending the general debate. So now I'm asking for the final words, if you're interested. [[This is the rapporteur.]] You're interested. [[The petitioner turns to the President and says: We are not interested!]] The rapporteur is interested. Mr. Polanský. Madam, I beg you. [[To the rapporteur:]] There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u86	I'll calm you down. I will just sum up quickly, so I will not comment on the content, just to sum up that, in the general debate, the veto on the '90s procedure from five MPs fell, the proposal to return the amendment to completion and the rejection was proposed at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u87	Thank you. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote. I'm gonna sing. Yes, I have an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. Please log in with your voting cards. [[A moment of waiting for the arrivals.]] I think we've already logged in enough. We have two proposals here - firstly, Mr Polanský has tabled a proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion, and we will vote on it first, and then we have a motion to reject it. I'm gonna read what we're gonna vote on one more time. We will now vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of getting back to work? Who's against getting back to work? Voting number 41, 163 Members registered, for 79, against 70. The motion to return was rejected. Then I have a motion to dismiss the motion. I think we know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of rejection? Who's against rejection? Voting number 42, 163 Members signed in, for 77, versus 74. The motion to dismiss was rejected. [[19.00 hours]] So now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Yes, Mr. Vácha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u88	Thank you. In the debate, I proposed as a guarantee committee on security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-005-013.u89	Security Committee. So we're going to vote on this first... Is there another suggestion? So we will first vote on this counter-proposal. There's a proposal that the Guarantee Committee be the Security Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 43. 164 Members are registered, for 7, against 87. The motion was denied. We will therefore vote on the proposal from the Organising Committee. [[Members object that it is after 7:00 p.m. and should therefore no longer be voted on. The President shall consult the President of the Chamber of Deputies on how to proceed.]] So, on the basis of the meeting of the House of Deputies, we decided that this was meant to be 19.00. It's after 7:00. So I'm interrupting this meeting. Meet me tomorrow at 9:00.
