ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u1	16. Draft by Members Josef Kott, Margita Balaštíková, Marian Bojko and others for the Act amending Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, and Act No. 256/2000 Coll., on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund and amending certain other laws (the Act on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund), as amended (the House Press 353/ - second reading) Mr Josef Kott shall state the application as the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I introduced the amendment to Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, and Act No. 256/2000 Coll., on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, in detail at first reading. Just to refresh my memory, I would allow myself to characterize it in a brief way. It is a parliamentary proposal which is an amendment to the abovementioned law. The amendment of both laws aims primarily to transfer administration and provide agricultural national subsidies from the Ministry of Agriculture to the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. The current method of administration of agricultural subsidies, national subsidy programmes is divided between the Ministry of Agriculture and the above mentioned SZIF, which results in lower efficiency of this administration associated with increased administrative burden on both the Ministry and the Fund. Two amendments were tabled to the Committee on Agriculture, which were, of course, consulted with the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. I guess that's it for the introduction from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The proposal at first reading was discussed by the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee, the committee resolution is available as House prints 353/2 and 3. The rapporteur for the agricultural committee is Mrs Monika Oborná, who I am giving the floor to. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this bill was delivered to the agricultural committee and we discussed it at the 23rd meeting on 15 May. As Mr Kott has already said, at the same time, two amendments were made to the agricultural committee by Mr Kott himself. As far as the amendments are concerned, the first one is the aim, in particular, of increasing the quality of the plot of parts of the soil blocks in the MIPS and simplifying and accelerating the procedure for updating the MIPS. As far as the second amendment is concerned, it addresses in particular the current problems of registering an agricultural entrepreneur under the Act on Agriculture, especially its further unification with the legislation on free trade under the current wording of the trade law. The Committee on Agriculture adopted an opinion on these amendments on 15 May and recommends the House to approve this bill as amended by the amendments adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u5	Thank you. Have a nice noon. I am opening a general debate in which I have a Member who has joined me, so I am calling on Mr Radek Holomčík to comment. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u6	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to justify here two amendments to which I will sign up in the context of a detailed debate. The first concerns the publication of information on payments made and financial flows of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund under the open date scheme. We talk about information that can be published by law, virtually. which the law does not prohibit to disclose. We have prepared this proposal in cooperation with representatives of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund and basically what we want to get into the system by the amendment, so according to SZIF information, it should still be applied within a few weeks. I would certainly like to thank and appreciate the approach of the representatives of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, which was factual and constructive. Our proposal would then give some legal support in this way of publication. I submit it in two variants which differ in the length of the period for which this information will be published automatically. The second point, which we did not discuss with SZIF and is to a large extent a response to current developments regarding subsidies from the Czech Republic, concerns the occupancy of the Supervisory Board of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. We would also like to put the possibility of parties, respectively. Members' clubs of different parties, including those of opposition who are represented in the House, should, of course, not delegate a permanent guest to the Supervisory Board of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, who could participate in negotiations that would have access to information, would not have the right to vote. He would have to keep his silence, and he would have received no reward for his actions. We see this as quite a positive instrument for increasing transparency and public control by Members' clubs, which have a democratic mandate arising from the elections. I consider these two proposals to be important. Although they may seem rather small, they are small things, so if we need something now, it is precisely an increase in transparency, greater supervision of how public funds are managed, and it does not matter whether we are talking about Czech or money from the budget of the European Union. Both of these proposals can help build the credibility of how money is managed in our country. Not to mention, with this amendment actually coming into the system, the change is that, until now, SZIF has been acting more or less as a paying agency for the distribution of European subsidies, where control mechanisms largely belong at that European level. By including national subsidies in the system or in what SZIF will administer, I consider it important to increase the possibility of control by the Chamber of Deputies, because we are the only ones who decide on the budget and it would be good for us to have the opportunity to supervise its implementation. I will sign up for individual proposals in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u7	The chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš is now registered. So far, the last application to the general debate. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, representatives of the government, Mr Minister. I would follow, with priority rights, but my previous speaker, Radek Holomčík, because he spoke about transparency, and they and the amendments that are coming have a lot to do with what I might ask the Minister here. We've been communicating with SZIF for about a year on the potential conflict of interests of members of the government. I have to say, the comms weren't open twice. We learned in September last year that everything is going perfectly transparent and in order, and could not escape the attention of Members, the public or the minister, who had to this and the press conference today, that according to the last audit everything is not okay. I have to say, those documents that came from SZIF that everything is fine and they pay off perfectly in accordance with the European Financial Regulation and the Czech legislation against conflicts of interest, so I have here at my disposal and I can show it to you afterwards. [[You?]] [[Is it?]] After all, we kept publishing the communication. So I would like to ask whether the Minister, or the Chamber of Deputies here, could answer if this report did not escape into the media, the final, investigative journalists did not publish it, and we will probably have to wait a little longer for it to be published. I've been watching the press conference, too, and there's a lot of confusion about it. I wanted to ask, first of all, if it is true whether SZIF, because there were contracts prepared for approximately another 40 million crowns, will stop the payment of non-interest subsidies to companies, i.e. Agrofert holding. Secondly, I wanted to ask, if the Minister in the press release said that his report did not concern: Is it true that SZIF preventively - if something was preventive, I would have expected it to happen last year - to stop the possible payment of funds to companies in which the family members of Minister Toman operate? And how will we proceed now? Because this is the second audit that has arrived in the Czech Republic, and its conclusions are almost identical to what we turned to SZIF a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u9	Now I have no one else registered for the general debate, so I will look around to see if there is any interest. There is no interest, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there is an interest in the final words in the general debate. Mr Kott, yes, for the plaintiff. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u10	I would like to thank my colleague Radek Holomčík, because I, too, have been involved in these negotiations with the representatives of the SZIF. I think Mr. Bartoš is talking about how long it was, that it was something that wasn't completely correct. On the contrary, I think that these negotiations have been very constructive in the spirit and that we have had the opportunity to talk things out and look for some common practice, so that even more openness and prominence can occur. That's one. Secondly, and I agree with what has been said here - as far as the second amendment is concerned, this is a matter that I, as a petitioner at the moment, am not able to answer, and I need to get the information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u11	Now, let me ask if the rapporteur, Mrs Monika Oborná, is interested in speaking as well. You're not interested in getting off. So I am now initiating a detailed debate, and I have one single application for a detailed debate, and it is Mr Radek Holomčík. Please, you have the floor. And I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u12	Thank you for the floor. I will apply to my amendments, I would just like to respond to the exchange that has been made here. President Ivan Bartoš spoke of a specific meeting on a specific issue and actually asked a question to the Minister. What I was talking about here, and I agree with the rapporteur when we were dealing with Zif on the particular issue that I mentioned in the general debate, was indeed constructive there. That is what the rapporteur was involved in. I would like to sign up for two amendments, which I have justified in the general debate. This is an amendment made in the system as House document 22634, which concerns the publication of data or information in the open date regime, and an amendment conducted in the system as House document 22635, which concerns permanent guests on the Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-007-016.u13	So, I don't see another application for a detailed debate. So I am done with this detailed debate. I wonder if there's still interest in the final words. There is no interest in the final words, and I therefore, because we have no proposals for a vote here, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Now I'm gonna read the apologies. I have a few of them. So between 12 and 13 o'clock, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes for business reasons. [[Named Švarzenberk. Laughter and unrest in plenary as a response to the mispronunciation of the President.]] Well, I was blamed, so I tried to say it in some way. Another apology is - between 14.30 and 22.00 apologizes for working reasons, Mrs Věra Procházková and the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. We will now proceed to the next point and this is
