ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended, and other related laws /German press 132/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 132/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Jitka Seitlová among us. Hello. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, speak first for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u2	Mr Vice-President, Madame Senator, fellow Members, I do not consider it necessary to repeat now what is contained in the House version that has gone to the Senate. I defended the House's version of the Senate plenary. I respect that the Senate did not identify with my opinion and sent the text back to us with amendments. I say for myself that I do not see the risks raised by the Senate or consider them to be very high, and I therefore recommend that we remain on the House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u3	That was the Minister. Now I ask that the words be taken by Senator Jitka Seitlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u4	Good afternoon again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to justify the bill amending the Civil Service Act and the foreign service which the Senate discussed under number 4 on 19 December last year. By resolution 47, the Senate decided to return the proposal to the House here, as amended by a few amendments. The Senate's proposed amendments concern, in principle, three basic headings of the rules of the Service Act, the purpose of which is to ensure the impartiality of the professional and professional performance of the public service from the beginning of the Civil Service Act, without undue influence by political power. [[14.50 hours]] The backbone of a functional public service model is to be a stable and professional apparatus that will be loyal to the government and serve the citizens of this country and thus be protected from politically motivated personnel interventions. In particular, the State Secretary and the highest civil servants have a key position in the operation of such a system. The Senate is therefore proposing to remove changes from the amendment which would be brought under political pressure by the Secretary of State and some other senior civil servants and open up the possibility of their appeal for political reasons. The amendments thus return what was in the original version, with only minor linguistic adaptations. The proposal, as prepared by the Senate, releases what would turn the whole principle of the decision to dismiss state secretaries if the government, as a purely political body, were to decide on his appeal today as Deputy Minister. Moreover, what is newly extended is the appeal grounds for calling off the Secretary of State, by completely vague terms, vague terms such as: disturbing the dignity of the function or endangering confidence in impartial professional and fair decision-making. And the government as a political body would be the one who, I say, would interpret such terms almost infinitely broad consideration. The civil servants' personal powers are intended to create a protection and barrier against the politicisation and abuse of civil servants. In the absence of the Senate's proposal for an amendment, the Senate believes that it would be in jeopardy and, in fact, within the hierarchy of state administration, not just the position of state secretaries, but the whole system of political independence. In the same way, the senát proposes to launch a change in the amendment, which would translate the authority to evaluate the majority of state officials from the current hierarchy only under a political body, and thus to a member of the government. The result is negative - what would be a negative evaluation, so it is still being expanded today. And the fact that someone would decide that the person was carrying out his duties either in an inconvenient way or in an inadequate way, that would de facto be decided by the minister as a political body, could be a reason to dismiss a large part of the highest government officials. The third amendment to the Senate concerns that an exception should be deleted, according to which senior civil servants could not object to a service assessment. They would therefore be de facto deprived of a single appeal against an incorrect service assessment without any relevant reason. Yes, there would only be a lawsuit, an individual's lawsuit against the government. I don't think I need to add anything else to this position. Let me make a little comment. You know, I personally believe that if it is pointed out that disciplinary proceedings are inefficient in some cases, then it would be appropriate to change this disciplinary procedure by simple acts in the law and not for no reason to establish the availability of this disciplinary procedure for a certain selected part of the civil servants. Ladies and gentlemen, good governance means achieving professionalisation and depoliticisation of management and personnel processes. This is a democratic insurance policy for the functioning of the public service. The independence of state secretaries and supreme civil servants, which the Senate returns to the amendment, is essential in order to fulfil the rule of law. The Civil Service Act has been adopted very hard for many years. The Mafia and Godfather lobbies, with which the state of the state administration's politicalization was appropriate, fought against him. When declaring the current government coalition, I believe that in the interests of the citizens of the country to whom public service with a high professionalism is to serve, I believe that although I know some of the club positions, you will consider the Senate's proposals and the amendment in the Senate's proposed wording. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u5	I thank the Senator and I am now asking if they want to speak gradually on the amendments tabled by the Senate, the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, I am referring to the constitutionally legal committee, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, and subsequently to the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Martin Kupka. Are you interested, Madame? You don't. Mr. Ambassador? You are interested, so you can, because the Member is not interested, so Mr Martin Kupka will speak for your committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u6	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, my dear colleagues, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development could not specifically address the Senate proposal, but I will then speak in the general debate to present my opinion and my arguments, but we do not have the committee's position in this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u7	Well, thank you, and I will now read one apology, but here I have to ask the Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk, because an apology has landed here that you are excused for the whole afternoon, and at the same time, Minister, you have now reported me a replacement card. Well, I guess we'll just let the Minister be here. All right. Let's keep going. I am opening the debate and I have three Members enrolled in the debate. So first, Mr Vít Rakušan, please, and Mr Marek will prepare himself Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset of my speech, let me thank the senators and senators, the Senate as a whole, for actually having been very successful in capturing the not-so-good outputs that sometimes emerge from the Chamber of Deputies. And this output was objectively not of good quality. Consider what the new Civil Service Act was supposed to achieve in its origin. Its purpose was to depoliticize the administration, its purpose was to ensure that high-quality officials remain in their positions in government independently of political will and many times because of the continuous transfer of experience and the continuous development of individual ministries and important authorities, regardless of which political party the minister from would just sit in that ministerial office. Certainly the original law was not without mistakes, but I dare say that the amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies certainly does not bring any objectively any improvement, on the contrary, it is on its way to a significant deterioration of the legal standard and to a re-politicalisation of the state administration. The state secretaries are no figures, the state administration is not a company, and we cannot afford to check with people on the chessboard as we please. If there is an opportunity to call off the Secretary of State - and I am literally quoting here - because he has violated service discipline or committed a guilty act which has undermined the dignity of his office or threatened confidence in his impartial professional and fair decision-making, ladies and gentlemen, this is such a vague formulation under which an experienced Minister or Minister will certainly hide anything to remove the State Secretary from office at any moment when they like it. [[15.00 hours]] If this instrument is preserved in the law, we, like the House, are quite openly admitting that we are returning to a principle where only and only for a political reason when we do not like a secretary - and perhaps it is based on some particular practice and experience that this government has already had. But then, if we are not satisfied with one particular official, we will not be amending the law in the legal state, which was simply and simply functional at that point. The original idea has vanished completely. Other matters are objections to the service evaluation. After all, in the logic of the matter, we must remain with the Senate's statement and maintain to the officials their only legitimate option of defending themselves from their superiors. If we take this away from them, the whole Civil Service Act is becoming a simple instrument for dealing with an officer who just doesn't meet our political assignment. And let us finally realize that the government, the civil service, is simply not meant to be just a bunch of obedient individuals who will exercise some political will at that time. Let's not set these parameters like this. Let's think about what the senators are telling us. Because their message is clear, today perfectly explained by the Senator. I believe that if we really want to ensure that the state service in the Czech Republic attracts experts into its ranks, it attracts people who have the will of the state to serve in the public service, so they must have a guarantee that they will not be victims of being run as a company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u9	There. I will now request a speech from Mr Marek the Výborný and Mr Ivan Bartoš will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u10	Dear Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, Madam Senator, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to join in what my colleague Vít Rakušan said before me. We know that the Civil Service Act, adopted by the previous Sobotkův government, was precisely aimed at depoliticizing the state administration. Exactly so that continuity, expertise could be maintained. And in the situation in which the current government is now trying to manipulate this law, so it really is - and not that there aren't things that need to be corrected, yes. But on the basis of the amendment in particular, Minister Dostálová, we are in a situation where the law will be completely, completely unnecessary. I would like to thank Senator Seitlová and the Senate as a whole here for the fact that the Senate has actually mentioned what has repeatedly been said here in the debate during the discussion of the Service Act. I'm a little sorry that the Minister has escaped because I have four questions prepared for him that I would really like to answer. And since I am behind me Mr. Prime Minister, who is also responsible for bringing this law and promoting it at the head of the government, I would like to ask him for a response if necessary. The government claims, Prime Minister, that the disciplinary proceedings with the State Secretary are not working. If you can answer me, please, why aren't you discussing a change in the disciplinary proceedings in the novel and instead you're completely disturbing them with the secretaries? Question two. You claim, as a government, that there is no threat of politicisation with state secretaries and that it merely puts them under the same regime as the Deputy Minister for Civil Service now, and the appeal will only be possible in extreme cases. What, then, is the government's view of this change other than making it easier to dismiss state secretaries? Do new, vague appeal grounds, such as, quote, "disruption of the dignity of office" or, quote, "risk of trust in impartial decision-making" offer a huge scope for arbitrary dismissal of state secretaries? Will these reasons not really lead to the use of ministers to settle political accounts with their deputy ministers? Four. There is a change in the service evaluation, as is to be carried out by the ministers concerned after consultation with the Secretary of State. What does that mean? The Minister may also issue a negative assessment against the will of the Secretary of State. What are the policy safeguards against political abuse when the possibility of objecting to the evaluation has also been revoked? What guarantees will there be that the government will not use the service evaluation across the board to eliminate uncomfortable officials? Those are very serious questions. I'd like the government's representative to respond to them. And one last question. If the government decides on surface personnel through a service evaluation or indirectly through loyal secretaries, can the law prevent it? Are there any other defense options left for the officials than to sue? I think these are very serious questions to which this House should hear the answers. Finally, let me just say, if the House's version of the amendment is approved, we are returning de facto to a time when there was no service law and when officials were fully under the authority of politicians. The Service Act will allow them to remove all uncomfortable officials within six months and to place those loyal or existing to loyalty under the threat of bad service evaluation and appeal, as mentioned in one of the questions. Such government will certainly be more obedient, but certainly not better and more professional. It may be better to honor the wishes of the government, but less already the laws and interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. I thank you in advance for the reaction of one of the members of the government, although I know that the Minister left the O.R. when I asked questions, which I am sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u11	Well, with priority rights, the Prime Minister is reporting. However, before you, with a factual remark from your party colleague David Kasal. So if Mr. Kasal has two minutes and then the Prime Minister will perform with priority rights. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would turn your way to both previous speakers, and I would like to respond to the fact that they use strong enough words. I think the law that was prepared is based on the practice. Thanks to my second term here, the practice used to be like this - if I were to speak so that I wasn't quite specific - the ministry was dismembered. This part, let's say, had the legal department, this party, another department had another party, and basically there was nothing that could be done there. And when education, for example, was being prepared, it was a big orbit before any conclusion was reached. So on the other hand, I think that the changes that are here right now are very rational so that these ministries can finally function normally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u13	There. Now, with priority rights, the Prime Minister, but President Bartoš also has priority rights. Well, if you'll give the Prime Minister some room. So first the Prime Minister, then Mr Ivan Bartoš, then Mr Kupka, will be prepared. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u14	So hello, Mr President, colleagues. I didn't want to perform, but I really have to laugh at what I hear here. Because the people who perform here don't really know how the government works. But, you know, I've been asking people who sit here for so long, why it took us so long to adopt the Civil Service Act. And you know what they told me? Well, it took ten years for all of you to agree to find your nominees for the state administration. Since I'm speaking for the KDU that came out here. And that's not our case. There are two ministers in today's government. Mrs. Schillerová and Mr. Kněžínek are officials. So they're not political nominees, they're officials. [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] I don't know why you're laughing. You sent your buddies and your nominees to the state administration. It took ten years for you to finally agree, and then, unfortunately, we agreed to the Civil Service Act, which totally concreted it! And today. Well, the Secretary of State is more than a minister. Poor Adam Vojtěch here had a state secretary there. For three quarters of a year, the Secretary of State did what he wanted. Without his knowledge, he gave rewards, only went to work when the minister was away from work and vice versa. How many times have we dealt with Mr. Postránecký's greatest clerk? He's more than the government! We're supposed to have a law today, too. So what are you talking about? What kind of politics? [[15.10 hours]] I came to the ministry and I brought a secretary, there was never a member of the YES movement. Never! And there are six ministers in the government who are not members of the movement. So I have to laugh that you're actually saying - so a new minister comes and he can't if he finds out that a deputy isn't doing his job, and he's even doing damage and he's holding back the Ministry and he's doing what he wants, so actually the minister can't do anything! And Minister Vojtěch experienced it on his own. I don't know what you're talking about. Nobody wants to politicize the state administration. Certainly not our movement, we don't have hordes of party people knocking on the posts of the state administration. We don't. On the contrary, we want to open up the government so that it is competitively able to hire the people we pay. So I'm just saying that the proposal was pre-negotiated with the European Commission, yes, you can see how it's out there, in other states, in Slovakia, yes, where the Secretary of State dismisses the minister without any problems. And this isn't about us changing everybody. We just want to have the opportunity when an official doesn't work, decides wrong, doesn't do his homework, so we have the opportunity to replace him in some way. In essence, it is not possible to have a ministry that is once run by the Secretary of State and for the second time by the Minister. So I don't know what you're talking about. I fundamentally reject it, no one wants to politicize anything, on the contrary, we want to open the state administration so that other experts can come. And there is no way that the Secretary of State could be more than the Minister and the greatest official on the part of the party - more than the government. More than the government. So that's what we have in the Civil Service Act today. And the fact that we've been there and that we've done it wrong in the last term, yes, that's true. And now we want to fix it. And no one wants to clean up! Nobody wants to put our friends or nominees anywhere. We don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u15	That was the Prime Minister. We have two factual points here first, which have priority, so the President of the ODS Petr Fiala and then Mr Ondřej Benešík. Vice-President of the House, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to make it seem that Prime Minister Babiš and his government had introduced something new that was never here, and that now there are non-party experts in the government and no one else had it before, so I would like to remind you that I was a member of the government of Petr Nečas as an impartial expert, and I was not even taken into that government as a nominee for any political party. And there were more of these people, like Army General Picek and others. So the practice that there were people in the governments who were involved in the profession wasn't members of any political party, it's nothing new at all. When you mention Minister Schillerová here, I don't know if she's a nominee in the government for the YES movement. However, it seems to me, and that is essential at the debate, that it is not possible to pass government members as outside politicians, that they are not politicians, that they do not share the government's agenda, that they do not implement the ideas and political goals that the government has. It's not like that. So, Prime Minister, it's nothing new, non-party experts in governments have been, it doesn't change the nature, the political nature of that government, and it's not something new that you've introduced here. But we're talking about the state administration here, and that's a completely different debate from how the government is composed. That doesn't really have anything to do with it. And we're talking about the degree of independence of civil servants from the government, political decision making. The debate is extremely difficult, it is not easy in other countries of the European Union or in other countries in the world. The fact that it took a long time here had a lot of causes. To a certain extent, we've worked it out together. But what you came up with here and what you pushed through in the Chamber of Deputies went against what you yourself declared was right. [[Time, I'm sorry.]] So now you're trying to re-politicize the state administration to suit you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u17	I'm just gonna ask everyone to keep time. Mr Benešík is now ready for a factual and factual Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u18	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask about a particular person, namely the former deputy of the non-scorer, nominated however by the KDU-ČSL in the previous government, Ondřej Závodský from the Ministry of Finance, who significantly reduced gambling in the Czech Republic and thus his pathological phenomena. He was leaving because he worked badly, didn't go to work and did what he wanted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u19	I will now ask for a performance so far at the last de facto Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe I could get the debate back to that material level. I just might have wanted to remind the Prime Minister that there is a law here, I think it's called 312 and that it's from 2002, i.e. the Collections, it's a law on local authorities. And this was the proposal approved and enforced by the Civil Democratic Party. By the way, Prime Minister, when there was a debate here in the previous parliamentary term on the existing version of the law, the Civil Democratic Party has proposed several times why we could not use this standard for civil servants, not just for officials of higher local authorities, because the Czech Republic is actually quite atypical in the fact that there are up to four service laws. One concerns police officers or security forces, the other concerns armed forces, then there are local authorities officials who have their law, then there are civil servants. And really, if you look into that draft law 312, into our original law, there are mechanisms that are much easier to control. The law works. It's been working for over 16 years. And even your colleagues from your community policy movement will surely be right that we have no problem with that at the level of the local authorities. So maybe this government, this government coalition, can revive the law in its debates and recall, maybe let's go back to it. Definitely the Civil Democratic Party won't object.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u21	That was the last in fact so far, so now Mr Bartoš and Mr Bartošek will prepare himself with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u22	Good afternoon, colleagues, colleagues, government, Madam Senator, I would like to speak briefly, originally I would also like to respond to the Prime Minister's speech, where a number of interesting things have been said about the state administration, so many of them have not been true. I just wanted to say that, of course, the installation of people in office, whether it's official, or whether it's a different function, isn't about whether this person has a boomer at the moment, or the party's legitimisation of one or the party, but whether he's loyal to his leader or whoever's installing him there, or how he acts in the performance of his duties. In short, I would just like to evaluate the development of this government amendment here in the House. I am very glad that the Senate has pierced the biggest problem that hasn't actually been on the table since the very beginning. The amendment to the Civil Service Act, which was under the criticism of the European Commission, had a number of problematic passages in it. It was the selection procedures, it was the evaluation, even the opening of the public administration to outsiders, which we and priori have no problem with, and there was really an effort on individual committees to address this and there were adjustments to the most problematic parts of the partial amendments. However, the most fundamental amendment actually went against the whole principle of the Civil Service Act and is being placed under the authority of the government and of the various ministers is precisely the possibility of recalling those state secretaries. [[15.20 hours]] This was not just a criticism of the European Commission. It is criticized by experts, the unions of civil servants have heard, and at this point we are registering many notifiers who are, without this law yet passing through the House, being pressured out of their posts. They then leave in the spotlight under personal reasons, change, realize that suddenly they commuted their whole lives, but now they don't like commuting, they leave at their own request, because they face various reprimands and other pressures. Well, then, if the government proposal is approved, this won't be necessary anymore. It'll just go by crossing off, or by one signature on the paper. I am a little interested in this, and it is a matter that is a bit related to current events and in the state administration, when this floscule gets into the law about the fact that the person in some way damages the dignity of the office, so I would like to ask how, for example, on 15 January, Ms Martina Děvěrová, who was kicked out of the City of Prague because she was associated - in my opinion rightly - with machinations in the matter of subsidies in sport. So now he's the guy who's gonna be the state secretary at the MIT. So I hope the dignity of the MIT, respectively. The apparatus is not disturbed by this. So I'd get to what's going to happen today. So a Senate proposal came in that addresses the most problematic part and tries to fix some small things. Although the government was actually preparing the amendment, there was a questionnaire for the functioning of the law, so it is not true that knowledge from the field has not been available since the law was in place. However, these findings were not reflected in the proposal. The Pirate Party therefore thankes the Senate for returning the law with this repair of the loudest part, the biggest problem. We, as a club, will vote in favour of the Senate proposal. On the contrary, we will not vote in favour of the government proposal that really brings the state administration into the political influence of the current government coalition or indeed the ANO movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u23	Thank you. I will now ask for Mr Bartošek's speech, and he has asked me with priority rights. Come on. Mr Bartošek and subsequently only Mr Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u24	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, sometimes people - your Members - blame me for sometimes being too hard on you. Now let me have a fair discussion with you on the subject of the Service Act. You know, we prepared that law together. Both social democracy and the ANO movement and the People's Party sent their experts there, and the law was made up of the idea that we were actually led by the idea of stabilizing the state administration so that what was experienced was not repeated. And what you mentioned is true. Garniturs were changing, social democracies were coming, ODS was coming. Everyone was throwing out officials to get close people there. I can't argue with that. You're right. That's what happened. It was wrong, and it damaged the state administration's performance. Because if we want the state to function well, he really needs high-quality educated officials with certainty that they will not be puppets and toys in the hands of politicians, that they can count on having a certain degree of stability, that they will have a certain degree of motivation to educate and grow and to perform state administration. I'm just worried about one thing. With every change in government, officials changed and changed, and the quality of government suffered. And I expected that stability would come with the new law. And she didn't come to my regret. The first person to abuse the systemization was social democracy at the Ministry of Health. And I said at the time, it is not possible to treat the systemization in this way, because once in the future, we will contradict how the service law is handled, social democracy will be the first to abuse this institute. The fact is that at present, systems are actually being used to throw out uncomfortable people. And there may not be anyone else to change, because you, Prime Minister, have actually thrown most of the uncomfortable people out of the ministries. I'm afraid so. Ondřej Závodský was mentioned here - a very good quality, hardworking, decent person who participated in the preparation of a very good law. He limited gambling in the Czech Republic. What was the reason he got kicked out of the ministry? What poor work did he do? Or what was the right reason why his job was canceled? I don't know. Maybe you can answer that. [[The speaker turns to the Prime Minister.]] Do you go around the ministries? Do you ask people what atmosphere they work in? Do you know the atmosphere of office staff, ministries? These are people who don't really want to talk about what's going on. Go, ask them. You'll see what the reality of the various ministries is. Fear reigns in ministries, and people do not want to speak openly about how uncomfortable people are being fired. Here it is necessary to thank the Senate for how it worked. On behalf of the People's Party, I can say that we will support the Senate bill, or we will oppose it, because the changes that are harming the administration's performance. The most absurd change that I personally perceive in this bill is that the evaluation is carried out by a member of the government who also has the opportunity to withdraw. That means any proof of anything will not be necessary. Of course, the Minister can issue an evaluation and he can issue it despite the opposition of the Deputy Minister of Interior for Civil Service. And the European Commission is talking about the law that it is a step backwards and it is a step towards politicizing the state administration. For me personally, the biggest regret is that when the law arose, I firmly believed that the ANO movement was interested in stabilizing the state administration. For me, it is a great disappointment that what you criticize in social democracy, in the ODS, and today people have been mentioned that you behave exactly the same way and change has not come with you. Unfortunately, I fear that the way you are currently setting up the Civil Service Act, the Civil Service Act, to suit you and to liquidate uncomfortable people, so every pressure is triggered by pressure. And in the moment you're not a government party, what's my concern that it might turn against you. If you had maintained a law that would be fair to all who would maintain the professional performance of the civil service, the government could have worked no matter how governments change, who is coalition, who is opposition. But I'm afraid that didn't happen. And that is the biggest disappointment for me personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u25	Now I have one more factual one. The Prime Minister requests to appear. But the de facto Member Josef Hájek two minutes and then the Prime Minister with priority rights and then Mr Kupka is ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u26	My serious colleagues, my colleagues, I'm amazed at what Mr. Bartošek here can do with his speech here. It's just unbelievable. I have the advantage of having an elephant's memory. And I see when the Prime Minister, as Finance Minister, was kicked out of office by Sobotka that day, I saw those enthusiastic employees who really thanked the Treasury Minister for his work. So I don't know where Bartošek here gets the guaranteed reports from the ministries that people are depressed, that they can't talk, that they can't work. I work in the Environment Committee, where I actually associate with people from the Ministry of Environment who are thrilled that Minister Brabec works there. I'll get back to Mr. Bartoš's performance. It's unbelievable how fast he learns. He's already overshadowed Mr. Kalousek. They just brought a new wind here, especially in Prague... Let me read here what their criteria are for members of the Supervisory Board. If we of the ANO movement had given such criteria, we might have knocked down Prague here. So it's a 30-percent expertise. Only 30 per cent. The knowledge of the pirate program is 15 percent. References of members and supporters 15 percent. That means if Babiš gave that he must know the knowledge of the program YES 15 %, support the voters 15 percent, then here you will die. And then a total impression of 20 percent. I don't have dreadlocks, so I don't have a chance to get in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u27	Now, a point of fact, and it ripped down even four factual points, so Prime Minister, you have to wait. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Martínek, Mr Bláha, and Mr Stanjura, will be prepared. Four facts at the moment. Mr. Ferjenčík, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u28	Thank you for the floor. The problem with the YES movement is that there are no selection procedures for positions on supervisory boards and use them to bribe the opposition, which is why the elections in Prague have lost.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u29	Now another de facto Member, Mr Martínek, will be prepared by Mr Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u30	I will just supplement and, of course, I will only be happy when the YES movement starts everywhere it can, and it will allow everyone to sign up. Let him set the conditions he can to all politically operated positions. Not that he's gonna put his friends, acquaintances, relatives, etc., but let the experts really be there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u31	Another one with a point of fact, Mr Bláha. Still factual, Mr Bartošek with priority rights. [[The President shall speak with Mr Bartošek.]] You want to go to de facto? You will be after Mr Kasal, i.e. Mr Bláha, Mr Stanjura, Mrs Valachová, Mr Nacher, Mr Kasal. Please. And then President Bartošek. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to the fact that the employees of the various ministries are afraid. The fact that people are afraid to talk about their problems is a universal fact that goes on across, wherever you work. People don't like to talk about unpleasant things, and they like to share myths that wander across. Even in my company, it happens that people I spoke to a short while ago and we clearly said these things to each other, the next day they are afraid to tell me something about their colleague or colleague, so that they will not happen to be blackened in the eyes of colleagues or others etc. Some people are not even happy or praised in front of others because they are afraid that others would look at him as a snitch or an asshole, etc. I don't know if you guys go after ministries, and I go after them, I hang out with the Deputys, I hang out with individual people, and I often hear the exact opposite, i.e. When they require their subordinates to do some work, some clear goals, tasks, they are often attacked because they discriminate that they want something extra. There's even one thing going on here when one of the unnamed ministers wanted to split the money fairly, his guy who splits it, said no, that's not how they're gonna split the money, I'm gonna split it by the way I want to split it. If this seems motivational and right to you, I don't. We should find together how to create it, how to set it all up, and not just defamation and, above all, populistly attack. Let's talk about this problem, I think we all want one goal: to have an independent government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u33	Next time, I'm asking you to keep time. Now, then, Mr Stanjura. Excuse me, Mr. Kasal. Please, yes. Wait, Mr. Ambassador. You just ran into me here, but you didn't. I'm sorry. You've been rushing in here, and now you've overlooked me, but I can see it on the screen. [[Laughing across the hall.]] The order is: Mr Stanjura, Mrs Valachová, Mr Nacher, then Mr Kasal, then Mr Bartošek and Mr Benešík. You've completely confused me. Please, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. But I reported the order. Please, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u34	I really don't care which one I'm in line. I have a request for Mr. Hájek. We're in the House, let's not worry about the capital city of Prague. Yesterday in the debate, the Social Democratic Member was upset that someone here was solving their regional problem, for example. from the Highlands. I hear about Prague here x-times what the mayor of the new council is doing. We won the elections in Prague, ended up in opposition and we will keep any complaints against Prague's leadership at Prague's Representation. It just doesn't belong here. In the long run, we have an opinion as citizens' democrats - the choice of people for the management of urban state, regional companies, supervisory councils, the direct political responsibility of the person who sends them there, and it is up to him to organise a selection process, or to send someone to whom he trusts, whom he knows. That's no problem. And to lighten it a little bit, if I imagined that such criteria would be written by the YES movement, for example. I would definitely have fulfilled the ANO programme, and I would have received 15 percent, because I would say: they have no program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u35	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, she was on point, but I do not see here. Madame is not, the application is forfeit, and Mr Nacher is now, in fact, prepared by Mr Kasal, I apologise, Mr Bartošek and Mr Benešík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to talk about this point, I have to say, you can really trust me, but I have to respond. Firstly, the debate about Prague belongs here purely from this, because especially colleagues from the pirate party speak here in theories, but when they are to demonstrate it in practice, they behave completely differently. I'm gonna add what my colleague Hájek said here, and I'm not gonna repeat those criteria again. The problem is that you have a selection process, and then you're gonna brag about it on the Internet, but you can't even keep your percentages. I found there your Excelovská table for the tender for the Supervisory Board of Prague Gas, Prague Services etc. Whoever had the most percentage, you took him out for some weird reason. I looked at why, because there was the smallest percentage in terms of references, in terms of references, not knowledge or expertise, in terms of references from the pirate side. In other words, you have open, transparent criteria, but then you don't nominate the first one anyway. So much in practice. And with regard to the transfer and relationship with civil servants, I remember - I suspect yesterday what today is, Wednesday - on Monday the board approved a new proposal for an organizational order that changes system positions so that they can be changed, replaced by department heads or trade unions. That means, let's watch you do it in practice when you criticize it here, how the government should do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u37	Now, then, Mr Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Bartošek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u38	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up with my colleague Nacher. It's for pirate-party colleagues who blamed us here. I'd just like to remind you, I'm gonna talk very calmly, your mayor is still on the Board of Directors of the VZP. You also promised it wouldn't be, and I don't know how long it would take. Chrudim explained that he was a different pirate. I don't know how to distinguish whether he's different or whether he's in another flag or not. Please explain it to me sometime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u39	Now, then, Mr Bartošek. Mrs Dostálová, Mr Martínek, Mr Michálek and Mr Benešík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u40	Thank you. Just a short tour of history. When the service law was formed, the first one, then the entire Chamber of Deputies and all the MPs reached out to the gentleman. That the opposition at the time said that at some point she didn't want to cooperate on the law, and it was her holy right to say "we don't want to create the law," so they decided. But the invitation at the time was to keep the law stable and not change in two years. So that it is a consensus that will be adopted across the Chamber of Deputies, and we will allow it to be put into life for some time, and after some time we will say what works for us and what does not work for us. The only comments that the YES movement had at the time were that at that time you wanted the state administration to open up more in competitions. This can, of course, be for discussion. But what you've done at the moment with the service law is completely out of bounds. This tramples on the principle and basis on which the service law was built, i.e. stability of the performance of the public service. And if it has been said that we have been invited to debate - no one has been invited to debate, no one has spoken to us from among the opposition. It has been said that the Civil Service Act will change, it will look like this, and it will look like the government's idea. And, of course, every law that is absolutely as crucial as the Civil Service Act, if it is pushed by force and not by consensus, can be expected that instead of stability, each term of office here will be dragged over to see what the Civil Service Act will look like to suit the very government that is currently in power. And that's wrong. Politics is not meant to interfere with the performance of public service. It's damaging the state, and it's hurting all of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u41	I will now ask Minister Dostálová, Mr Martínek will prepare, we are still in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u42	Thank you for the floor. I really only briefly, but I had to respond to some things, because first of all, I would like to put the debate back to the point. Sometimes you need to realize here that they're confusing pears with apples. We really, if we're talking about state clerks here, we're not really dealing with the vice presidents, or the department director, or the officers, the professionalization, and everything is preserved. State secretaries are the highest top officials in the Ministry. We put them under the same regime as the highest civil servant, that is, Mr Postránecký. And just one comment about the evaluation. Today it is that state secretaries judge the highest civil servant, Mr. Postránecký. But he's not working with them at the Ministry. He doesn't know their work at all. That means it's set up to be signed by a specific minister. Today, it's just given to make the law work, to fit a particular practice. This means that the Minister evaluates and has to sign the Supreme Secretary of State. That means, it's not what it said here that the minister can do whatever he wants. And the Secretary of State, in fact, as the supreme representative, can then use the judicial review as part of his evaluation of the appeal, which we also know from practice here. So I can't imagine, the law says it has to be clearly justified, verifiable. So if we're talking about some kind of particularly gross violation of work discipline, and it's going to be the way it was suggested here, then, of course, if we catch the Secretary of State with alcohol and so on, that's clearly proven things. Definitely not a crooked view of the hallway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u43	Mr Tomáš Martínek will now prepare Mr Jakub Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u44	I'm just here to answer Mr. Kasal. Mr. Arenberger, alternate of the pirate party to the board of directors of the VZP, resigned. There's been a tender. The nominee was nominated. The election committee has discussed this today, so when the new alternate is elected, Mr Hřib will be able to resign, of course. The point is that the board's activities are not paralyzed. I guess that's a reasonable solution. I guess that's the way you see it. Otherwise for Patrik. [[Nachera]] If you have specific examples, I'm sure you'll bring them to me. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u45	Thank you. And now another, Mr Benešík, will be prepared by Mr Stanjura. I still have a third de facto, Mr. Rakušan. The Prime Minister is still waiting in order. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u46	Mr President, by your means to Mr Bláh. Thank you so much for the offer, but it's really a little late, that's five minutes past twelve. We're talking about the Senate comeback tonight. We are not at first reading, we are not at the preparation of this law. We're just gonna decide on an "A" or a "B" tonight. So it's just about the procedure. We really can't talk about this anymore, we can only criticize it, and maybe it's unnecessary to convince you that the Senate version is much better. I'm not a big thug, so I'm five years old. But after all, I remember five years ago, when we had the entire KDU-ČSL parliamentary club here after the lockout, when we didn't sit here for one term, our fellow party didn't sit here, and that's what we were looking at. It was new to us here, but we were still the traditional corrupt parties, even though we were all new, none of us, unlike many of our colleagues from the ANO movement at the time, were in any of the gangs before. And even the YES movement said - we are not politicians! They were all non-political here. And I see it as déjà vu. I hope I don't touch the Pirát, but that kind of enthusiasm and innovation sounded right here from the ranks of members of the ANO movement. It was exactly the same. And today, at least one of these little positive findings: the YES movement is really politicians, even if they were so terribly opposed five years ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u47	I will now request the speech of the Member of Parliament to the President of the ODS Stanjuru. Mr. Rakušan will be ready. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u48	I would also return to 2014 and respond with a factual reminder of President Bartošek's speech. It was not so idyllic that we sat down and together prepared a bill. First, it was one of the first drafts of the law, and it was submitted and the government coalition's effort was quickly approved so that Andrej Babiš could become a member of the government. First of all. Secondly, it was a parliamentary bill signed by one folklore, one Social Democrat and one member of the ANO movement. And then the opposition - I proudly claim it - said that the law is so stupid that we are ready to block the House. Only then did the action begin. Only after we said we'd block the House. And remember, for example, you. From the YES movement, what the design looked like originally, how angry you were at us for blocking it. That would have made the concrete much bigger than it is in today's condition. Much bigger. A super official who appoints all state secretaries for seven years in principle without being able to call him off. That we have slightly corrected it in a good way, many of the good things that you and your suggestion today, we have proposed, but you have rejected them. [[unintelligible]] You turned them down. The Senate version, of course, is better than the House. We did not vote for the House version and we will vote for the Senate version today. But remember what happened. What you've been pushing for. Take a look at the original bill of parliament he gave options for. And our opinion is the same for a long time. Many of us have experience in local and regional politics. Look at this law on the local authorities. There is a key secretary or director of the Regional Authority. And we can live with it, and none of the mayors are complaining and running about not being able to replace people at the office. And we, in fact, wanted the same law for the state administration. First of all, make it passable, make it the same rules. That didn't work. And you yourself were always afraid of this Brusel, and you said, "We have to approve it, or we're gonna lose our funding!" [[Attention on time.]] That's exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u49	Now, Mr Rakušan, Mr Bláha will be prepared. I have three facts, Mr. Vice-President Pikal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u50	Thank you for the floor. Indeed, a very short factual comment on what was said here from the Minister's mouth. I really must repeat once again that it is not true that it is here precisely and clearly defined under what conditions we will call off the Minister of State! One more time, please. Has he committed a guilty act that undermines the dignity of his office or compromises confidence in his impartial professional and fair decision-making? Ladies and gentlemen, as mayor of eight years' experience, I could simply hide the wrong look under it and anything related to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u51	I will now ask for Mr Bláha's speech, and Vice-President Pikal will prepare himself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to the fact that it is never too late. Never, really. That means the worst are the things we don't decide that we don't name. Even the wrong decision is sometimes better than no decision. That's why I'd dare to challenge you, let's keep talking about it, if there's anything you're not happy with, so offer it up so we can talk about it so we can talk about it. And maybe we can move them together. And most importantly, we all have to stop working here populically. Because when I went around you all, I heard one thing from the opposition. Well, Jirka, or Mr. Bláha, I can't do that. We're the opposition, so we can't work with you on these things! We must be the opposition. So even if it's good, it must be bad. And believe me, I've heard that from you. And I respect you all and constantly offer: Let's talk about it! I'm not happy with what we approved here yesterday, and I'm not putting my hands in my lap. Yesterday, we passed the insolvency law, and I'm very upset about how it affects companies and employees. And now we're going to open the Enforcement Act, and it's not ideal, and we need to talk about it. So let's talk about these things, and maybe we'll really change them during this term to make them worthwhile. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u53	Now Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, President Benešík will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u54	I'd just like to respond to something that's been said here. I'm a pirate, and I'm a politician, and I'm proud to claim to be a politician. We are a political party, we are not any apolitical movement that seeks power only in some connotations that have been said here. Then I'd like to put it in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u55	Now, Mr Benešík. President Bartošek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u56	President Stanjura is right that during the last parliamentary term, it was often said here that the reason for the establishment or approval of the Service Act was that we would lose European funding. That actually sounded like it, but the truth is a little different. The European Commission, having found that the Czech Republic did not draw allocated funds for its own development, did its own analysis and the analysis showed that one of the problems why the Czech Republic left money in Brussels and did not take it for its own development was that it has unstable public and state administration. And it happened that with the exchange of the minister, the officials who managed the European funds also switched, then the papers were searched, then there was a delay, and there was a risk that the deadlines would expire, and we would not run out of money. So the European Commission didn't want us to adopt a service law, but it wanted us to stabilize the state administration so that this would not happen and that we would draw the money. The Civil Service Act was logically designated as a means of action. And as far as Mr Bláha is concerned, through Mr President, he was not behind me on cooperation. I can say that in our committee we cooperate across, we do not share the coalition and the opposition. I think that's where we can find intersections across the political spectrum. But it is logical that the folklore may refuse to cooperate, for example, with a member of the ANO movement, if she comes to him with an offer of cooperation on the law on the taxation of church restitution. You just have to understand that there are things where we just don't meet politically, and that cooperation is basically impossible. So let's also understand this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u57	Now, Mr Bartošek. To sum up, I still have three factual points after Mr Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u58	Thank you. A brief response to President Stanjura. Yes, it is as you describe it. It was a big lesson to me back then. And I think it was a good thing you chose the procedure you chose back then. What is important, indeed what Ondřej Benešík said, we may disagree on some matters of value, but we should deal with absolutely key issues in an influential way, because what this society needs is stability. This means, it is about how we can really handle key laws across the line, because the only thing that results from the fact that we are unable to agree is the constant amendment of laws, the change of rules, and basically the constant adjustment of conditions. This does not testify to legal stability or to the performance of the public service. This means, personally, I regret the approach that the government coalition is promoting this bill with force and damaging the performance of the state service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u59	So now, Mr Stanjura, and then I have just the last de facto - Mr Bláha, so far. And then with priority rights, the Prime Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u60	Under the Rules of Procedure, I am responding to Mr Bláha's last speech. I'm ready to debate, but I have to debate with someone who has a strong opinion, then we can argue. He just got off here, criticized the House as a whole, as we misvoted yesterday in the insolvency law. That's a legitimate opinion. Then I'll look at the vote. How do you think Mr. Bláha voted? Was he against the bad law that he was terrified of, which so fell on those corporate employees, or was he in favor of? B) is correct. And then how are we supposed to conduct political negotiations when you vote for something first, and the next day you're yelling, how awful is that? I don't know, are you in or out? You're in and out. And then it's very hard to find a match, because I'm either in or out. Never together. And the service bill. One of the things that we have been criticizing over the long term, and which you have pushed through in the former government coalition, is the so-called. Political Deputys and other Deputys. We made it clear, and we didn't change that opinion that the Deputys were supposed to come with the Minister, that they were to be chosen by the Minister. If the new minister keeps them, it's okay, if he doesn't, he has the right to bring in the closest co-workers. Not to be an ape, that we still know who it will be, but I'm going to organise a selection procedure, and by chance, Social Democrats win selection procedures at the Ministry, which is run by the Social Democrat. And again, by chance, in the ministries leading the ANO movement, these open, transparent selection procedures are won by members of the ANO movement. It's ridiculous! The Minister has the right to bring in coworkers, and now I'm talking about the Deputys. We all see them as political figures. Underneath there are those officials who are to be protected, but not the Deputys. And that's what we're talking about. That's what we've been pointing out. You can see for yourself today how difficult it is. This is where we're talking about how he's been called off -- change -- to get rid of some deputy. [[The President draws attention to the time]] If it were the Minister's authority, it would be very simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u61	Now two factual ones still, so Mr Bláha and Mr Jurečka will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u62	I'm saying, rather than making any decisions, I'd rather make the wrong decision. What we agreed last night is pushing what we had around a little bit. But it's not ideal how it should be for the business environment and for those people who make up those values, i.e. I think it's time to work for all of us, so we need to keep working on it. Through Mr President, I would like to say to STAN that I have met with all the parties I have addressed, but unfortunately STAN has not responded as the only one. I don't have a problem, I met with everyone else, but you didn't respond, so I guess that's why we didn't meet. Maybe it froze to digitalization somewhere. And the last thing I wanted to say is that if we're going to politicize, it affects the most important thing, and that's the business environment that makes up the values. It's not just the government. The fact that we here can't agree on these fundamental things and those fundamental steps affects the fact that we have a much worse economy than we could have, that they are far worse employed than they could be employed, etc. etc. We need to agree on these essential things, but we need to leave our shells and not say we're those, and we're these, we're white, you're blue, we're not working together. And that's how it sounds from every side, and we're in it just as much as you are. So it's not just one-sided. I think you understand what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u63	So now the last de facto Mr Jurečka and the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will be prepared with priority right to see if there will be another de facto. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u64	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, Government, colleagues, colleagues, I have to respond here because Minister Dostálová, I think, has not quite rightly said some of the things of the service law practice, because I, as a minister, have participated in the evaluation of my secretary in the past, together with the Deputy Minister for Civil Service. It was done together, the evaluation. It wasn't for form, it wasn't about it being without a minister who just co-signed it, it wasn't just a formal matter. That's the first thing. And the big one when Mr. Bláha here said he wanted to do the good things. So please be nice, Mr. Ambassador, in which case, support the version that the Senate has given us back. Because the Senate has put it back into the framework that the law has in its name - the Civil Service Act, which aims according to the explanatory report for which it was adopted, to professionalize and to some extent to depolitize the administration so that it can function in the long, conceptually, without some influences that are not always for the benefit of the functioning of the state administration. What you're introducing here today, or you want to introduce it so easily that it's an opportunity to replace the deputy, the state secretary, and take the possibility of appeal, it's just something that you don't castrate the Civil Service Act - it's not castration, it's that you killed the whole thing, you skinned the skin, you just pretend it's still alive and it looks like a pig! So you're treating the Civil Service Act today. Let's face it, you don't care about any civil service, that you just want to do it on those ministries based on how you like it, and it's gonna be fairer, and it's gonna be more constructive. And I'll ask you when you always said you wanted to do things professionally. Please, which of the Members who will support this have asked some of the officials at a lower position in the ministries, what do they say in practice on this proposal? Which one of you did this? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u65	I will now ask for the Prime Minister's speech. Prime Minister, you have the floor, and then Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared after you. You've been preparing for almost an hour, haven't you, but hopefully it'll come to you... Not yet. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u66	I'm mostly enjoying the KDU-ČSL performances. Mr. Jurečka, when he became Minister, you put your people on the head of the department and the head of the union! What are you talking about? We're the government. Schillerová is not a member of the movement, Nováková is not a member of the movement, Ťok is not a member of the movement, Vojtěch is not a member of the movement, Dostálová is not a member of the movement, Metnar is not a member of the movement! So what are you talking about, please? It's your DNA to shove your buddies into the state administration, that's your DNA. That's where you grew up - traditional democratic parties! So please try to tell me why you didn't adopt the Civil Service Act in 2004. I said it here: because it was expected that we finally put your nominees there. We were looking at this in October 2013 - 18.7 percent. What are we gonna do? We didn't even know if we'd be opposed, we'd be in government. And then we started dealing with you. What was the first, colleague Bartošek? You were there, and Mr. Jurečka, Mr. Bělobrádek. Well, it's your deputy. And we say, why do you want a deputy everywhere? Why? Because we need our people there. Remember? Your people. Stabilization. The stabilization of your people who found it! That's the stabilization! That's why you've been waiting a long time to concrete it. And we said, but we don't have any people like that. Then you assigned us officials - Tlapa, Ertl, only one we could find - Mrs. Hanzlíková. That was our only nominee in the coalition government, yes, KDU-ČSL. You wanted your deputys everywhere! And where you had ministers, that's where they found yours. Harder! Nobody went anywhere behind us. We didn't have any people because we're a movement, we're open. [[Laughter from the right.]] We're the ones who depolitized the government. We depolitized her. And why are you talking about us somewhere... I'd love to, Mr. Stanjur, if you could just give me a list of those Deputys for the YES movement or who said so. Give it to me. I don't know him. [[Messenger. It wasn't Mr. Stanjura.]] That's what somebody said. I strongly doubt that there is a deputy under the YES movement. I don't know about that. I highly doubt it. Strong. And we started to tender - on CzechInvest, on Czech Post, even on GIBS we did, on the mandate of the tender. So what are you talking about? What about your Mr. Chairman Bělobrádek? How many people did he take to the government office? How many people have science and research there? Seventy-nine. How much is there today? Twenty-eight. I saved $31 million. So what are you guys still talking about? So we got in and we said, we don't want to, and you made us do it. And the Závodský One. And if you ask me about Závodský, the gambling bill, yes, I did. And Mr. Závodský hasn't been able to do the IT system in two years. He wasn't capable. He wasn't able to organize the IRSBM and he wasn't even able to manage his department. Speaking of gambling, we can talk again about how you stopped us from raising taxes here. You were active, Mr. Bartošek, personally. So the deputies you had, for example, Mr. Filip at the Department of Health, when there was a systemization, he just didn't want him there, the political nominee. But the Secretary of State, who was concreted there for nine months, returned it against the Minister's will. He was giving rewards like he wanted. So these are your stabilizations. It took you ten years to find your parents there, they were there, so now we could close the whole thing down. So what kind of uncomfortable people? We're doing this objectively. I didn't marry anybody from the YES movement or the Government Office. One secretary, an assistant. He is not a member of the YES movement. So I don't understand the debate here. We are the movement that depolitized the government because we have officials in the government. And if Chairman Fiala here compares that it's already been done, I don't understand. I didn't know that the Rector of Masaryk University was a clerk when he compared himself to Mrs Schillerová, who worked in financial administration for 25 years, or with Mr. Kněžínek, who worked there for a very long time. So it's not true. We have people in the government who are nominated by the movement, but are not members of the movement. They're not. And we don't have to feed them, the movement, to give them the functions. And that's your DNA! You guys are talking about something, and I really don't understand. So please, let's just call it what it is. I think we've made it clear, and I'm telling Mr. Stanjur the truth, yes, we didn't make it. We didn't count on a crazy thing like the existing Civil Service Act where the minister couldn't actually do anything de facto. Nothing. Then when somebody's incompetent in some way, it's on the line, it's on the money again, and that's how it's built here. And we're fighting it, and let somebody tell me where we put some of our nominees. We don't. And the main proof of that is that there are no members of the movement in the government, most of them aren't at all, so I don't understand what you're talking about. We've depolitized it, we're the movement that depolitized it, and what you're doing here is really ridiculous. It took you ten years. Ten years, yes, and it was still necessary to wait for yours - we never wanted them, the Deputys. Never. We didn't want them because we didn't even have them. We don't have a tradition here, we don't have enough people to feed to get that position in the government. So we didn't understand it at all from the beginning, as it was. We finally agreed to it, and now you're saying that we want to make a difference? We don't want to change. We want to have high-quality civil servants in the state administration. We want to open them up to good people so they can compete with the private sphere. And that's it. So I'd like us to actually use the facts, not some conjecture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u67	Thank you. Good evening. First of all, Mr Jurečka is here with a factual remark and Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u68	Prime Minister, I don't think we understand each other very deeply. It's not supposed to be crucial here who has party jurisdiction in the state administration. The Constitution of the Czech Republic ensures that you should not be discriminated against for your political beliefs. And if I've had seven deputy officers, I'm just asking you nice and proper. Of the seven Deputys one was recommended by the ANO movement, the other for the ANO movement ran for the European elections, then there were, yes, two who were members of the KDU-ČSL, then there were three without political jurisdiction, perhaps one of which was originally the ODS. I've never looked into that. So, please, where do you keep the people you're talking about, that I've put up with people from KDU-ČSL somewhere? [[Prime Minister Babiš: I'll give you a list.]] I'll be glad if you deliver the list, but that's not what the state administration and its professionalism are supposed to be about, whether we keep lists and files! It's supposed to be about whether people do their job well, and if it's because they do it well, impartially and factually, sometimes someone doesn't like it, and the person in question can simply remove it simply because he looks at it badly. And that's what we're having today's debate about. And if I ever put someone in a position through a tender, it was for his expertise and competence. Deputy for IT, all his life, 15 years made global IT security in one of the largest companies in the world. That's why he was an IT deputy! He was even awarded, and the person who made public contracts, for example, which is already being prepared, was awarded by your Ministry that it is the best department in public procurement and the implementation of new trends in public procurement, that we are not only competing for the price. And ondOndřej Závodský, if you were unhappy with him, I suppose you didn't give him the last two years of reward, that you didn't justify why you were giving him those rewards. I remember you repeatedly praising him publicly, in public forums you said, I have a corruption fighter, he's great, he's handicapped and he's great, he's doing his job! You're kicking him today!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u69	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. I have a note from Mr. Kupka, but since I see him here, I'm not gonna load it yet. Please, Mr Ferjenčík, with a factual remark. Mr Munzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I only wanted to respond to the Prime Minister, who entertained me by presenting Members of this House, such as Mr Vojtěch or Mr Ťok, as examples of independent officials in his government. Introducing the politicians sitting in the Chamber of Deputies - Mr Ťok even, if I am not mistaken, led the ANO candidate in one region to the elections, so putting them as an example of an impartial official is truly absurd.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u71	Thank you. Please, Mr Munzar, with a factual remark. Mr. Benešík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u72	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to respond to the Prime Minister. It's not exactly like that. I also agree with my colleague Stanjura that every minister should bring his deputy. I consider it normal. But it is not entirely true that all Deputys are not required to be members of the YES movement. Look at the Ministry, look at the Ministry. I'm not criticizing it. I just don't like total hypocrisy here saying that government members are officials and deputys are officials. It was not so, it is not so today. Please don't say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u73	Thank you, too. And please Mr Benešík at this time, with one last remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u74	As yesterday in the discussion of road transport, the figures do not add up. KDU-ČSL has been ripping people off for ten years. In the last ten years, we have not been in the House at all, and I think that some of our former fellow party members have actually made sure that anyone has any leads in the KDU-ČSL to simply end up at the Ministry or at the ministries. And we've been in one single government for ten years. It was Bohuslav Sobotka's government. And we haven't been there in a year. Or we haven't been there for more than a year. So I don't know how we could have fought our own people for ten years. I assume no one's gonna tell us that last year, or anyone's gonna believe that we've been fighting our own people somewhere. Well, for the next five years or so, we had absolutely no influence. And I don't think a KDU-ČSL party book is a win-win. So please, let's use the correct facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u75	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr Kupka. Please welcome to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u76	Good evening, Mr President, dear colleagues. I finally got my turn with my proper application to the general debate. I must say, I am surprised, in fact, it is hardly surprising how remarkably the Prime Minister works with facts and political terminology. So we got used to the fact that non-politicals sit in the government. Now we have to accept again that they are additional officials. This is quite an important shift for how politics is done in the Czech Republic. I therefore believe that the government is a high political body, that I cannot imagine anything even more political besides the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, so I assume that in reality they are still politicians and politicians will be. We also learned that those who were here before the YES movement had concreted it. That's not what the facts say, and even the current situation, and the current discussion is right. Most of all, the government has concreted exactly what you have brought in in the form of the Civil Service Act. And the concrete is so perfect that now you're fighting it yourself and you have to change it because it doesn't really work that way. Unfortunately, what we know under the old familiar sentence is that it is from the wall to the wall, instead of finding a way to correct the Civil Service Act so that it makes sense that we can really build a state administration, a state service that is flexible, which will be accessible and open, so that people can go there to test practice, so that people who will succeed in any other competitive comparison can go there at the same time, and, of course, to be people who will function impartially and who will guarantee what the Czech Republic needs, that is the rule of law. That is why so much depends on the quality of the Civil Service Act, because, of course, a well-functioning government is important for the rule of law, so that people's requests and various administrative procedures are judged really correctly, impartially and efficiently. So I'm calling for this together with the Civil Democrats, so that, as we did at the time when the law was being discussed, we can learn what works provenly, the law on officials of self-governing territorial units, and we can transfer as much as possible into the Civil Service Act. But what was happening and what was happening with the novel is really the deflection of the pendulum until the next turn, on the other side. To an extreme that simply isn't healthy, because it ultimately implies what it is now possible to call political cleansing, because in the case of state secretaries, this really means the measure that appeared in the amendment. That's why I'm glad the Senate managed to stop for some time. I firmly hope that the vote that may take place in a few moments will at least prevent the greater evil from being the one at the last minute of the proposed change. And I strongly hope that the Senate version that corrects this, in the end, you will also find support and we will not get completely to the opposite spectrum or completely to the opposite position. I would very much like that, because it is important for the public service to really be able to do what every government wants to do in the future, that is to fulfill its programme as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u77	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I just want to ask if you want me to load your note or download it. You're pulling. Okay, thank you. By doing so, we have exhausted all the applications written into the debate. So if no one reports from the diaper, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. First, please, Madame Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u78	So one more time, if possible, a nice evening. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the debate that has been raised here, even if it has to be said that it has been partly about the issues of the past. And I'll admit, it kind of felt like little boys were blaming themselves about who took the balloon and who kicked him where and where else. There's no way to decrypt it anyway. But that's not the point. One of your colleagues at the beginning said that unnecessarily strong words. They're not useless words. There's a lot going on in this law. And I can say that I was delighted at that time that you adopted the Civil Service Act roughly two years ago. Do you really believe that after two years, we have enough experience to amend the law? I've heard from a number of civil servants that it's too soon, but okay. There are some good things in this novel, and that's why I said not to refuse in the Senate, but only what was really there at the last minute, and I don't think that's right, supplemented, so let it out. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] You know, the situation that's here now proved that before the service bill was passed, the condition wasn't really good. Fine. I'm so glad the service bill was passed. But now those who say we have passed the service law, so after two years and on the example of one case, one case that was presented here by one minister, so they say, well, we have to completely block out the crucial person, the state secretary, completely, completely. Mr. Jurečka talked about it. Other previous speakers said that we are giving him of course completely - I will say the collar, because we are calling him off, changing his rating, and rejecting him so that he could have any options at all with proper power, except for a long lawsuit that he was in the right. In the meantime, of course, the Ministry works. How long can a lawsuit in the case of an administrative appeal of the Secretary of State take? Two years at least! And in the meantime, of course, things happen. So any state secretary who's gonna be under this curate will think twice. Now, about that one State Secretary case. I have to say, I know three versions -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u79	Senator, I'm gonna interrupt you and ask for some peace in the hall. I am pleased that we are all gathered here, but please let us remain calm until the vote. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I know three versions of how it all went down. The first minister was not satisfied, but he did not give any incentive to the Deputy Minister for State Administration. He was the second minister, and he was there so short that nothing was really going on. When he was the third minister, and when he filed for disciplinary action, he ran. And then the deputy resigned himself. How many state secretaries did we have? Fourteen? In that two-year period. How many of them are left in their seats? Some said, "We're not good enough," others really left in agreement with the minister. It's not true they're blocked in there. It is true that ministers and those who work with it may not be able to use the law's process as approved today. We can't change the fundamental pillar we have in the law from one case. Madam Secretary Dostálová got out very nicely and said "but this is not about the lower officials." Mr Stanjura, Mr President, said "we have to protect these officials." But whoever is the pillar, the dam to protect them, is the Secretary of State. And that's what we want to give a political collar. That's why it's gonna end up on the whole government hierarchy. That is why we are fighting so much for this, because we want the state administration to be the support of the rule of law. That's why it's so meaningful. Thank you very much for your attention, and I believe you will consider voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u81	Thank you, too. Now I beg the Minister's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u82	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me also a short response. First of all, I don't feel like the Minister of Official Government, we're gonna have to clear that up with the Prime Minister. That's one thing. The second thing is, I can't speak for other ministries, I can speak for the department I run, and I don't feel like the officials are going to work at the Ministry of the Interior and they're terrified of what the minister is coming up with. I feel that the atmosphere is very productive and calm, but I speak only for the Ministry of the Interior. One last thing. I suspect it was Mr. Výborný, who asked me questions here, in principle two. One was on state secretaries and disciplinary proceedings, the other was on official evaluation. As far as the service evaluation is concerned, I take the view that the person who gives the assignment and directs the person should also evaluate it, which seems logical to me. As far as the State Secretary is concerned, the senator said that we may not be able to use the law. Maybe she'd advise us. But we have a disciplinary procedure with the Secretary of State, and it turns out to us that if we wanted to implement this disciplinary procedure, we almost have no one to put in that disciplinary committee in the first degree, because the Secretary of State is, of course, the highest-ranking official in that department, and it's hardly likely that his subordinates will judge him. I don't think so. Then it means looking for people outside the resort, but even outside the resort it's complicated, because the only person who's above the Secretary of State is the Deputy State Service, and he's naming the committee, so it's probably hard to be a member of it. Therefore, I say that practice has shown that we have theoretically disciplinary control, but in reality its realization is very complicated. I just don't share the catastrophic scenario that some opposition colleagues here suggested. I believe that, as the law left the Chamber of Deputies to the Senate, there is no threat of politicalization, decay, destruction of the state administration. Time will show us. After all, three governments have changed here during the term of the Service Act, and 50 percent of the Deputy Ministers remain in the resorts, so I simply do not share the concerns and I think that as it left the Chamber of Deputies, this is certainly not a disaster for the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-005-003.u83	Thank you, too. Now there is room for the final words of the rapporteurs. Mrs Kateřina Valachová, as rapporteur for the Constitutional Legal Committee, is not interested. Mr Kupka is not interested. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill which - I am hearing a request for withdrawal, so in the meantime I will sign you out. Please log in again. I will read again the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 132/5, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House press 132/6.' I hope you're all logged in with your cards. We can begin the vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 43, 172 Members and Members were enrolled, for 63, against 96. The motion was denied. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We shall now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Please set up the necessary kvora. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill as amended by Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended, and other related laws, as amended, in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to House Press 132/5.' I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 44 voted on 176 Members and Members, for 113, against 62, one abstained. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill in the original Houses. Thank you. This concludes the discussion of this point. Thank you, Senator, thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteurs. I'm gonna open another point that's
