ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u1	156. Motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on the House of Press 382 I ask that the plaintiff of this paragraph, Mr Radek Holomčík, take the floor, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. Do you agree, Mr. Ambassador? You agree. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u2	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. Thank you for including this point. I think it's very important. The objective, or the motivator, of why we wanted this point to be included today is that we consider it necessary for some analytical steps to be carried out in relation to the barking calamity, which unfortunately have not been carried out. We have already proposed them in June of last year when the barking ground in the House was discussed. Yesterday, I sent you all Members and Members by e-mail a motion for an amended resolution. It is considerably simplified compared to what we proposed last year. We removed the Ministry of Defence from there as the founder of the Military Forests and Farms. We consider it important of three things. First of all, if we are to be able to deal with bark calamity, in our case in particular through legislative proposals, we need to know exactly what preceded them, how it started and how it spread. It's just as if the doctor was trying to heal without some kind of examination, as if he wanted to determine the diagnosis and treatment procedure without some sort of initial examination. Second thing. As I said during the discussion of the previous point, if we are to monitor in any way the effects of the measures resulting from the amendment to the Forest Law, which was approved a moment ago, we also need this information again. And the third thing is that we think that politics should be transparent and that citizens should be told the truth. And actually, there's a lot of confusion around the whole calamity. There's been a long, long version: nobody's fault, it's the drought, it's the heat, it's nobody's fault, it's all actually a matter of nature. And all of a sudden, last May 11th, around 2:30 p.m., if I recall, a report was announced that the then CEO of the Forest of the Czech Republic had been called off due to the failure of the barking calamity. So this is where the story got a crack. And how has he evolved since then? Not at all. I do a lot of business with citizens, people ask questions. And no one really knows. I have nothing to say to them because I don't have the information. And I think it's fair, if we're talking about a third of our territory taking up forests, and if we're talking about 48 percent of them being forests in the management of the Forest of the Czech Republic, I think it's right for us to tell the public what was going on. After consulting Deputy Mlynář, I'm gonna propose a little adjustment to the resolution, so I'd read it in the original form now, and then I'd like to see if we can do it this way, suggest a change - or do I have it right now? [[- Excuse me?]] I was the one who sent the motion for a resolution yesterday with the idea that it should be the one I propose. And a moment ago, there was an agreement with Deputy Secretary Mlynář, where I would like to do a minor correction. Well, if...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u3	Yes, it is. That's no problem at all. Read this verbally in a detailed debate and there is no problem at all. The motion for your resolution, the one that we will then vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u4	Okay. Yes. I'm wondering if I've said anything else. I've said everything, I've mentioned the three reasons. Maybe I'll repeat them quickly. If we want to address and monitor the barking calamity, we should know what preceded it, how it spread, and the public should know it too. So then I'm gonna ask for the support of the proposal I'm gonna make later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u5	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mrs Helena Válková apologises from 16 to 17 o'clock for the hearing. I, therefore, am initiating a general debate. I have two registered here, but I would like you to refer to this resolution in a detailed debate. You can read it now, of course. This means that I will now ask Mr Marian Jurečka to speak, and then Mr Jan Zahradník will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u6	Thank you. I would like to propose a resolution here on this point, which I will later justify and give, which is rather briefer than from a fellow speaker. I would like to say that, of course, colleague Holomčík here points out that it should be examined in detail, collected etc. Many of the information he refers to in his resolution is already public information, which can be found in the Green Report, which can be found in the materials of the Forest Economic Treatment Institute. So it is possible for each Member to find this information, notabene, some of which we have also approved here at the Chamber of Deputies level, so we should also know something about them. But I consider it important to look at the present and the future in the first place. Government materials, as well as individual committee resolutions, have called for the various ministries to do what is good and needed to cope significantly better in the forests of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I can say that not all ministries have a fully responsible approach to this and some recommendations, where appropriate, proposals, how specifically to help manage the situation, do not respond very well from these departments. That is why I have taken the liberty of proposing a resolution which, of course, I will sign up for in detail in the debate, and this is what the resolution says: The Chamber of Deputies asks that the ministries affected by the problem of forest calamity referred to in the resolution of the Government or committees of the Parliament of the Czech Republic since 2016 to report in detail on how the recommendations and resolutions have been implemented or what concrete steps they are planning in this area in the future. [[Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Transport and Ministry of Interior]] Such an overview will be submitted by 30 April 2019 for discussion to the selected committees of the Chamber of Deputies, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Thank you for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u7	Thank you. Next for the debate is Mr Zahradník. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I introduce you to my motion for a resolution under this accompanying resolution, I will just briefly comment on what Mr Holomčík mentioned when he spoke about the removal of directors in relation to the barkworm. Yes, Minister Milek, I think his name was, in the previous government he called off the director of the Forests of the Czech Republic Szórád for not fighting the crust. About four or five years ago, Minister Brabec called off the director of the Šumava Jiří Mánek National Park Administration for fighting the barkworm. That's the distinctiveness, that's the double face, that's the flatulence we're witnessing here. In my last performance, I indicated that my proposal would have three parts. I'm turning to two ministries with three applications, actually. The numbers of these points, so if my proposals are approved, and so if they were included in the overall draft accompanying resolution, then they would have the numbers that will come out of them. So my first proposal: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Institute for the Economic Treatment of Forests, to present an analysis of the impact of the regime without interference applied in 2007-2018 on the part of the territory of the National Park of Šumava on the spread of bark and bark outbreaks in the state forests managed by the Forests of the Czech Republic, s. p., Military forests and farms of the Czech Republic, s. p., but also in non-state forests following the forests of the National Park of Šumava with a deadline of four months from the adoption of this resolution. Second request: The House asks the Ministry of Environment, in cooperation with the Šumava National Park Administration, to submit a report on the volumes of bark-mining timber on the territory of the Šumava National Park, which was exported outside the territory of the National Park in 2008-2018 and which customers were sold to. Once again, within four months of the adoption of this resolution. Finally, my third proposal, the third request: The House asks the Ministry of the Environment to submit data on the volumes of spruce wood from semi- and random logging, which has been left to debark in the forests of the National Park of Šumava in individual years. Once again, therefore, within four months of the adoption of this resolution. This is therefore my proposal, which I will forward in writing to the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u9	Ambassador, thank you. We are still in the general debate. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking at this stage of the hearing. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking whether there is an interest in the applicant's final words. If this is not the case, I am opening up a detailed report to Mr Holomčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u10	Thank you. So I will read the motion for a resolution: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. Asks the Ministry of Agriculture for 1. Forensic analysis of the emergence of outbreaks and subsequent spread of bark sludge in time on state property in the Czech Republic, from 2012, using orthophotomap, forest records data, data on defence and protection measures taken against barkworms, data on the method of sale of the affected wood, data on contract partners of the Czech Forests who mined this wood and bought it from the Forests of the Czech Republic, and finally using data on contractual penalties for non-compliance with contractual arrangements in the field of forest protection against bark granted by the Forests of the Czech Republic; 2. carrying out an analysis of the social, environmental and economic impacts of the implementation of the so-called Wooden books and follow-up concepts of strategic development of the Forests of the Czech Republic for the years 2015-2019, especially impacts in the disaster of affected areas; 3. Implementation of the inventory of the current stock of wood in forest growth in the forest management of forest forests of the Czech Republic and evaluation of the results of this inventory in relation to data of forest accounting of forests of the Czech Republic, respectively. data on the mining operations carried out, and data on forest stocks of wood in accordance with forest management plans in force in the period from 2012 onwards; 4. Implementation of the inventory of results of science and research financed from the grant service of the Forests of the Czech Republic in connection with the introduction of these verified knowledge into operational practice in forests in the management of the Forests of the Czech Republic until 2012. II. Asks the Ministry of Agriculture to submit at the point I the documents requested by 31 August 2019 to the Chamber of Deputies, including source data and other supporting documents to produce the required analyses, with the exception of data protected by trade secrets. The changes or changes that I announced as opposed to what I sent yesterday by e-mail are in the delivery date, when it was shifted from four months after approval to 31 August of this year, and there is an exception for source data, so it is with the exception of data that are protected by business secrets, because I was alerted that some data should simply not be published. And that's actually the whole resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u11	Thank you. Next, he is enrolled in the debate, but he has signed up in writing and therefore has priority, Mr Jurečka. Mr Zahradník is then registered from the post. So, Mr. Jurečka. I saw him a while ago, yes, okay. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u12	Thank you. As I have already announced in the general debate, my proposal is that there should really be a slight revision of what should have been done and what has succeeded and what may still be ahead of us in the future, what should be done. I therefore propose a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking that the ministries affected by the issue of forest calamity, to which the resolution of the Government or Parliamentary Committees of the Czech Republic has been referring in order to address the catastrophic situation in the woods since 2016, report in detail on how the recommendations and resolutions have been implemented or what concrete steps they are planning in this area in the future. [[Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Transport and Ministry of Interior]] Such an overview shall be submitted by 30 April 2019 for discussion to the selected committees of the Chamber of Deputies - the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Economic Affairs." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u13	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Zahradník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u14	Mr President, in a detailed debate, I am referring to the proposal that I have read here a moment ago, with the fact that, after I have actually found out that we already have the two previous proposals, each of them stands on its own, so I would like to see that my proposal, which I have read here, is also seen as a motion for an accompanying resolution standing in itself as one of the three proposals, not, as I may have suggested, being a part of one of them. So I'm applying to this proposal as a separate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-011-156.u15	Yes, I feel the same way. We will vote on three proposals which are separately eligible to be voted on. There. I ask if anyone else wants to speak in detail. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in the final word from the plaintiff? It's not like that. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. And if there is no objection, we will vote in order, as the proposals have been tabled. First of all, Mr Holomčík's proposal, then Mr Jurečka's proposal, and thirdly, Mr Zahradník's proposal. I've applied for a check-out, and I'm going to ask you all to sign up with your cards again. [[He's waiting a while.]] So, it looks like we've stabilized the number of votes in the O.R. And first, we're gonna... The rapporteur should be the first to speak in the debate. So, first of all, we will vote on the motion for a resolution, as was orally presented in the detailed debate by Mr Holomčík. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution. Who's against it? Voting number 104, 155 Members registered, for 44, versus 37. This proposal was not adopted. We will now vote on the motion for a resolution, as Mr Jurečka put it orally in a detailed debate. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution. Who's against it? Voting number 105, logged in 158, for 155, against no one. This proposal was adopted. And as the third vote, we will be voting the resolution proposed by Mr Zahradník and delivered it to us. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 106, registered is 158, for 59, versus 16. This proposal was not adopted. I therefore note that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jurečka has been approved. It was not approved for others. Thank you all, and I'm done with this point. I'm opening another item on the agenda. That's what it is.
