ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u1	219. Position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the meeting of Liberty House Group and ArcelorMittal Ostrava a.s. after the decision of the European Commission I ask that the words be taken up by one of the members of the government on this point. So the Prime Minister will speak on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Regarding the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the Liberty House Group and ArcelorMittal Ostrava negotiations following the decision of the European Commission, I would like to say that, of course, we follow this issue very closely and closely. We have not yet received the European Commission's decision. So far, it's just a press release. Of course, ArcelorMittal, I don't want to go back to the past, but that's also one of the privatizations that went wrong. The company received 10 billion from the financiers and the current owner took 50 billion dividends. Too škoda he didn't invest in the company. And of course, 7.5,000 people work there, and we're worried about it not ending up as OKD. That's why we're interested in the new buyer. And I have a whole bunch of things here that we've done. On 26 October 2018, I sent a letter to the Commissioner for Competition in the European Commission, Margrethe Vestager, where I raised the two most serious problems concerning the sale of Liberty House. In particular, it was the absence of the Liberty House investment plan and the planned emission allowance transaction. I have been very intensively communicating with the representatives of the KOVO trade unions. I met with the trade unionists on October 31, 2018. On November 7, 2018, I discussed with the owner of Liberty House, where I was not satisfied at all. On 16 November 2018, I discussed this with Czech Commissioner Jourová and Commissioner Margrethe Vestager right in Brussels. Then there were a number of meetings at the level of the Ministry of Industry, where Deputy Minister Rudyšarová is in charge. Then, on December 17, I was approached again by unionists, so we are in very intensive contact. I was communicating with them yesterday. On 8 February 2019, at the Office of the Government, I discussed with European Commissioner Margrethe Vestager again the decision of the European Commission, and so on. I don't want to read this for long. We, of course, regrettably - this is where the European Commission decides. And he's probably deciding from a market share point of view, even though we warned her to actually analyse the buyer's credit. That it doesn't seem to us that the buyer still wants to work very closely with the existing owner. Their financial health was not entirely clear. We didn't even find out about that. So the company doesn't seem entirely trustworthy to us. We didn't actually get answers to various intentions in terms of purchasing Ostrava's Energy for emission allowances, and so on. So we continue to monitor the process closely. I do it myself. Now, of course, after the arrival of the new minister, he will take over the agenda and continue. ArcelorMittal is a strategic company in the Moravian-Silesian Region. Of course, after what happened with OKD, we have an eminent interest in maintaining production, jobs and ensuring investment in ecology. It is a great pity that the current owner invested mainly in Poland. There were not many investments in the Czech Republic, up to the level of depreciation, when we think it could have invested significantly more. So from our point of view, I don't think there's any contradiction. We are all interested in ArcelorMittal getting a new owner to invest in the company, maintain employment, expand and, of course, be a long-term and strategic partner. At this point, we're not convinced. Let's see what the European Commission has decided on. The trade unionists propose the form of a contract between the new owner and the Czech state. And, unionists, I'm sure we're not defending ourselves, and we're going to be actively involved. [[9.10 hours]] The question is, to what extent can we, if the doubts actually persist, change the process in some way, or contradict it, or even disagree with the European Commission's decision in some way. That, of course, is a question for lawyers. Once we have received the decision, we will analyse it carefully and choose several alternatives accordingly, and on the basis of further interviews with the new potential owner, and also, of course, after consulting the trade unionists, we will agree on a further procedure. So I just want to make sure that the government is watching this very carefully, and I'm watching it personally, and I'm going to do my best to make sure that OKD or even the activity of the existing owner who bought it for ridiculous, I think 325 million, takes away 50 billion, doesn't repeat itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u3	Thank you. I will now ask that Mr Leo Luzar, who will agree to be the rapporteur at the same time, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, the Moravian-Silesian Region is a region of coal and iron. Historically, it was called the steel heart of the Republic. Unfortunately, nowadays, it is already the heart, but it may be connected bypass. And in the last few moments, we perceive the situation, and I think that everyone who watches the media and the economic situation in the Czech Republic perceives the problems of the region. There are no more shafts in Ostrava, we are talking about the Karvin area, we are talking about the OKD, which is back to the state enterprise under the control of Prisco. I can at least say for myself that, after today's negotiations with the Prime Minister, I am glad that at least the perspective of OKD may be by 2030, perhaps even further, and that at least the coal period of the Moravian-Silesian Region will be preserved for some time and represents an employee perspective. Iron and steel was the second problem. So far Mittal Steel Ostrava has worked quite well and, of course, we all saw the emerging problems of Vítkovice as being second in these large companies. The situation where the owner of ArcelorMittal decided to expand to Europe and buy the music in Italy was a bit of a surprise. The opinion of the European Commission, which protects the European market, was clear and forces the owner to limit its ownership and not to represent a significant competitive force in the European market. Mittal Steel separated companies from its portfolio, which it offers to sell under pressure from the European Commission. One of these businesses is also a hut in Ostrava. The procedure he chose was, first of all, surprising to all participants, when he chose as a future buyer a company that had been perceived as a partner with him at least so far, I do not want to say tied but rather a partner, and he even went so far as to talk in the original offer he had submitted to the European Commission about offering help and cooperation to the company and that he would actually be the one that would partially finance and partly bail out this new acquirer, which was in sharp contradiction with what the European Commission actually demanded. At an extraordinary meeting, which we called here on this subject as a KSČM, and at which we discussed this matter, it was clearly declared that we were concerned about the future and that the future owner should be the owner. I stress the fact that, according to the press report, the European Commission has decided that Liberty House is an appropriate acquirer because the company has changed the financing system in the offer - this was one of the conditions that we declared to be problematic, which means that it has committed itself to putting in more of its resources and not the funds of Mittal Steel's loan partner, or possibly. banks. The second point that she declared and convinced the Commission to decide was that the emission allowances that we have also discussed here and these are emission allowances in the order of CZK 5 billion will remain in Ostrava and will therefore be part of the acquisition of this hut. These were the two conditions imposed by the European Union and, in fact, this company approached them, that they would, they would, and that is why, according to the current information we have, the European Commission has said that Liberty House is an appropriate partner and buyer of the New Huta. The question remains, however, how much further questions will be answered, which have been raised and which remain unclear. However, these questions are no longer directly related to the European Commission. So, of course, she said her point of view about her problems, especially the emission allowances and the banking system and the financial system of Europe and the financing, but the others that already concern ArcelorMittal as such did not talk. And I'm just gonna try to remind you briefly here. It's an investment, an investment plan. This was one of the things that was said at the Moravian-Silesian government when it was a possible change of ownership in the first round, what the investment plans would actually be. And it was promised some graphic - I don't want to say investment, but good. It was promised that an investment plan would be submitted in future years and a development project and a development plan would also be submitted as part of the acquisition of the company. This is nowhere yet and is not presented and we will expect the future owner to fulfill these promises he made. Another thing to point out is that this and, the emission allowances, yes, will remain the property of the company. The second thing is how they'll be treated. It is really 5 billion, and we would very much hate for this money to go away from the Czech Republic. Not under ArcelorMittal, but under the new owner. The result would actually be the same for the Czech Republic and Ostrava. This money would not end where the ecologically affected region is, but could be used, for example, differently. What is interesting and what has escaped the European Commission is Energy. I do not want to develop the debate why, but, of course, if someone retains a basic source of energy for the operation of the metal in their possession, it is clear that he is also able to control the future owner and acquirer, and this question remains unsolved until now. Last but not least, and most importantly, there is a guarantee of employment and social security in the Moravian-Silesian Region. This is a thing that haunts us in the region, and I will be very happy if the new acquirer is helpful and will clearly declare his future intentions. But why did we call today's meeting and why am I standing here at this microphone today? As you know, we are currently in a situation where we do not have a new Minister of Industry and Trade, who logically belonged to the wound and negotiation. We're at the time of the ministers' transition. And the assumption is that, if the European Commission has made that decision, there won't be much time between the decision and the contract that will be concluded between ArcelorMittal and Liberty House on the acquisition of the smelting. This meeting should aim for the Czech Government to make an effort, and a strong effort, to do this, though not as a direct partner, but perhaps even a contract, as has been suggested here, has entered into the process and has kept an eye on these matters, which remain open all the time. Because, of course, if a new big investor comes and he declares himself a big and strong investor, on Czech territory, it would be good for the Czech government to deal with this investor and look for ways for this country and this region. So that the investor would really be an investor and not just what the Prime Minister's mouth said here -- the one that buys this company on debt -- that is, this company will draw it out of all operating profits, and actually, as an empty shell after draining tens of billions of crowns, it will leave it to this state, and the state, here you have it back, we have earned it, and you take care of the consequences and the rest. [[9.20 hours]] That would be the scenario I'd hate to admit. That's the OKD scenario I was talking about at the beginning. Mr. Bakala's financial groups vacuumed OKD like this, took billions abroad and left the empty shell to the Czech Republic. And that OKD has just succeeded, that OKD works, acquires new employees and produces profits, is the great happiness that maybe the government has found the courage, entered it and guarantees continued coal mining and quite good economic results for the next years in the Moravian-Silesian Region. But will it happen again in this business? That is why it may be good for us to enter earlier and for the Czech Government to say the clear declaration yes, we want to enter this process and ask for certain guarantees from the company that is coming here. I do not have a motion for a resolution prepared for today's point, because, as I say, we do not yet officially have a new Minister of Industry and Trade, a member of the government, or I would just ask the Prime Minister here to do one of the first tasks, if not the very first task of the new Minister of Industry and Trade, was the situation after the decision of the European Commission within ArcelorMittal and Liberty House, and to immediately enter into negotiations with these companies and seek solutions, as the trade unions have already indicated, and as he has also said in his opening speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u5	Thank you. Next, Mrs Golasowská is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wish you all a lovely morning, my colleagues, my dear government, my dear Prime Minister. Let me also say a few words about the sale of ArcelorMittal as a resident of the Moravian-Silesian Region. ArcelorMittal Ostrava belongs to the ArcelorMittal group owned by the Indian billionaire Lakšmí Mittal. ArcelorMittal Ostrava produces steel for construction and engineering and is also the largest manufacturer of road guardrails in the Czech Republic. In addition to the Czech market, it supplies its products to more than 40 countries. In 2017, this company reached a net profit of 3.2 billion. Crowns. Even with subsidiaries, it has about 6.5,000 employees. As we have heard here, the group must sell Ostrava's business and several other plants in Europe under the conditions of the European Commission, because it has bought the largest European steelworks Ilva in Italy, and it would therefore have too much share in the European market. The new owner is the company Liberty House, which belongs to the global group Gupta Family Group Alliance of the British businessman with the Indian roots of Sandžív Gupta. The trade unionists are worried that Liberty House wants to create a structure of companies located above the company, which is intended to buy the shares of ArcelorMittal Ostrava. There is a danger that ArcelorMittal wants to buy the company's purchase by the leverage buyout method from private investors using borrowed capital. The assets of the purchased company serve as cover for the loan. The financial flows generated by the purchased company are then used to cover the loan. The aim of the trade union negotiations is to reach an agreement on the future of the hut and to sign a document covering key issues, in particular employment guarantees, investments and other trade strategies. According to the trade union, Liberty House is not interested in developing the Ostrava Hut. It has no plans to invest in the company and stated that the strategy for Ostrava is to use existing facilities and be a low-cost supplier in the region. This was stated by the trade unions in their letter to the European Commission. The trade unionists also claim that Liberty has difficulty financing its previous investments and that it does not have sufficient financial resources to keep the unit viable. Moreover, as we have heard here, Liberty House is not interested in Energy, which is the key equipment of the smelting, and wants to be dependent on ArcelorMittal for the future, because the former Energy plant is not part of the sale. This was confirmed by the CEO of Liberty, who said that the purchased package is already so large for Liberty House that they are unable to buy energy. On the question of unionists, as Liberty House wants to address the modernization of an outdated steel plant, there was no concrete answer. They stated that the strategy led them to believe that it was an agreement with ArcelorMittal that they would not create competition in the strategic region of Central Europe for products with higher added value. Dear government, as we have heard here, the Moravian-Silesian Region is a region with heavy industrial production and is severely tested by the already known case of OKD. And the case of OKD is, of course, not only apartments, but also a decline in mining associated with the firing of miners. ArcelorMittal Ostrava is another company that, as I mentioned here, employs more than 6,000 people, and the decline in the activity of this company can, of course, lead to unemployment not only for the employees themselves of this company, but also for the decline of related services linked to the production of ArcelorMittal. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to do everything in your power and not only to make a clean and proper sale of ArcelorMittal, but also to remember the future of employees, the strategic development of the entire enterprise and, in turn, the Moravian-Silesian region, so that you do not only support short-term solutions that may bring some effect for the moment, perhaps economic, but in the future, so that it is not another Titanic next to the already sinking OKD. Thank you for your attention and thank you for everything you do to keep ArcelorMittal working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u7	Thank you. With a factual point, Mr Vondrák is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As the governor of this region, we are very closely monitoring this situation. I would like to confirm that at this point the government is doing everything possible within ArcelorMittal and its sales can do and we can do. I personally associate with the representatives of Liberty House. I don't think the situation is entirely in our hands. We all know that, but I would like to say that there is no more we can do here. I'd like to confirm that here. And one more thing in this direction towards my colleague through the President. You know, that county is no longer a mining and steel region. I think that these are, of course, the new things that are being created, and there is a need to ensure coexistence. And, of course, the existence and prosperous ArcelorMittal is a necessary condition for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u9	Thank you. Mr Zaorálek is next in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u10	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make a comment on the debate that is going on around ArcelorMittal. It may seem to someone that we are talking about an Ostrava regional problem here, and the question is why all Members should be concerned. Let me remind you just a little bit here that ArcelorMittal manufactures steel for construction, rails and the like, but also makes steel significantly for Czech engineering and that the fate of this company is actually quite closely linked to the fate of our engineering. So it's not exactly a matter of just one county. It's a question of the structure of our industry. [[9.30 hours]] It seems important to me to realize that here... I know, seven and a half thousand people are a lot. But it's not just that we don't have a lot of big businesses like this, but the thing is, you see in Britain today, a country that has gradually gotten these heavy operations out of its country because it thought it was going to feed on banking, and today what is it that they're making? Do you understand? Where are the products that this country makes? This outsourcing of all these products, which are ecologically demanding, hard work, at one time it seemed to be beneficial for those countries. But today it is also known after the crisis that we experienced between 2008 and 2009 that having a wide portfolio of production, in which you have, for example, a base of engineering and the like, has a sense because the crisis is going through different sectors and it is good that the fan is wide. So I'd just like to appeal to the fact that what happens to steelworks in Ostrava isn't really a matter for the county. The governor here said that today we are not only living out of steel and coal, that is one truth, but the other thing is that when we learned to do something in this country - and the history of steel in Ostrava, that is 150 years, it is not just socialist history, it is much older history. That's where the best steel was made in the Austro-Hungarian power industry at the time. That's actually an ability that doesn't just fall out of the sky. In Ostrava we learned some things to do completely new. But it's worth a lot when there's something we can do today and we can do it in a way that actually affects the whole Czech economy. That is why it makes sense to talk about the fate of this steelworks, because when it simply disappears, it will fundamentally change the ability of the Czech economy to survive a difficult period, and it will also limit our ability to do so. And I think leaving engineering in the Czech Republic would be a huge mistake. And when this steelworks falls in Ostrava, it will be a step towards a major weakening of Czech engineering. That's why I think that... First of all, it's a thing that, as I say, isn't just Ostrava. And I also think that this is about the fate of industry, the engineering of Europe. That is why I confess that I am a little surprised by the European Commission's decision. I think that we as states give up part of our sovereignty precisely because we assume that the European Commission will help us at a time when we ourselves have a hard time affecting these things. And I confess that I trusted Commissioner Vestager to help us here in the Czech Republic at this very moment, and it was a surprise for me that she decided this shortly before the European elections, when she postponed it for so long. And I have to say for myself, I don't understand why she made that decision. I don't understand what kind of game is actually being played here in the European steel industry today. I don't think there's gonna be an answer to that today, but I'm just pointing out that it's something that I'm also interested in and I don't know the answer to. Then why am I so unhappy with her decision? Well, because if you look at British, Indian servers, you'll find a whole series of articles about the current owner, Mr. Gupta, Liberty House, and those articles aren't very positive. Just yesterday I found on an Indian server that he owes relatively gigantic money that he didn't pay. These are his debts all over the place. In Britain, there is talk of his volatility and uncertain domain, which he currently has. That's why we're talking about it because it's possible today to look critically at Mittal's entry into the Ostrava steelworks years ago, but I warn you that at the time that Mittal bought and became the owner, it was probably the second largest steelmaker in the world, and then he became the first. So you see, at that point, the feeling that the steelworks were saved, there were reasons for that, because it was given to someone who went up at that time and became actually the world's biggest steelmaker. He really made the steelworks work for years. Today, when we see him leaving, it reminds us of Mr. Bakala, that's true. And in the OKD committee, it's very interesting, where you can understand how the way these methods of financial engineering work, in which you work in a proprietary way, where at the end there's really only the shell. And you also have the impression that we have something like what we experienced in OKD after 2005-2006. But the second thing is, I think it's important that we stand by this... so we don't let it happen, so we just don't let it happen. 15, 20 years ago, it was hard to know there were such models. But now that we know it, it's also about the Czech Republic being a country that won't stand by. I know that the Prime Minister has dealt with this case, that he has met with Commissioner Vestager repeatedly. And today, I suppose, it's not over. The story goes on. I'd like us to think of him as something that concerns everyone. Not only Ostrava, and not only the Czech Republic. Don't let anyone treat what's been building here for 150 years in a way that one day they'll just rob it and walk away. That's what I think is going on in Ostrava today. And I'd like us to find allies in other parts of this, too, and feel that this is a common problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u11	Thank you. Mr Juříček will speak with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't really want to go to this case, but I do understand engineering after all. My colleague Luboš Zaorálek, through the President, is right about a number of things. Vertical integration for each country in terms of independence, logistics and so on is very advantageous. But I have to put you on the ground. Today there are steel plants in the world like Baosteel in China, Hyundai Steel in Korea, Mitsubishi Steel in Japan, which, for example, make 10 million tons of annual production with 1,700 people. If this steel plant is going to survive, it's either going to invest in tens of billions, or you have to aim at the fact that six and a half thousand employees aren't going to be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u13	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u14	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Mr President, I would follow up on the words of Luboš Zaorálek. It's true, I'm with him on the OKD investigation committee, and here we have the exact same story. You're our coalition partner, so I'm sorry to be a little critical. But the same story, that means privatizing the New Huti in 175 miles. and during the government, or respectively. The sale, or the new subject, Mittal Steel made 47 billion. 47 billion. The Prime Minister said in his speech that it had been performed - he said 50, the exact number is 47. That means today we're in a situation where the business is without investment, underfunded, undersized, and now we're pushing the state: State aid, do something to save the business, both the people. And here he pays the password twice, one time cut. And unfortunately, that was not done here, and today we are reaping the bitter fruits of privatization, which, from my point of view, was not premeditated for all the consequences that unfortunately occurred. So much for this thing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u15	I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u16	Hello, thank you for your word. I'm not gonna be too long, I just wanted to ask the Prime Minister, since we already have him. Perhaps I would follow up on Mr Juříček if the government had a backup plan in case there was a dark scenario, that is, if Mittal fell, if the government was preparing a rescue system for the six and a half thousand, maybe even more people, given that Mittal itself is linked to a lot of other companies. So if she fell, it would affect the other companies. So if the government is preparing some kind of backup plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u17	Thank you. The Prime Minister is interested in speaking. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u18	We have a backup plan, of course. After they OKD-toned, I bought it, the state has it again. We bought it for $70 million. [[Laughter from the right.]] Yes, I bought it. Me. As Minister of Finance through Prisco. It was my initiative, I made it to the end, and the OKD works. [[9.40 hours]] And it's too bad Lakšmí Mittal's selling it in cash. If he was selling ArcelorMittal himself, we would definitely apply for the company, and Prisco could easily apply, because I always said, as an ex-businessman, it is necessary to make verticals. And whoever has the raw material, the brown coal, can do the verticals. And once upon a time, the bad communists did so that the whole complex worked. And it's too bad he didn't buy ArcelorMittal at the time, it would have stayed in Czech hands. And as ArcelorMittal began to privatize, I talked to the companies and Třinec ironworks operate throughout the region. And they're in Czech hands and they work great. So we have a backup plan, and if we feel bad about it, we might as well call the new owner "look, sell it to us" and Prisco buys it and starts some vertical integration again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u19	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u20	Thank you. Good morning. Mr President, Prime Minister, Government, dear colleagues, colleagues, I will only allow myself to speak with de facto, because when Prime Minister Babiš here talks about the fact that he, I, I solved, I bought, so if it were true, today OKD is probably in Agrofert's group and holding company. Which I don't think it is. And if you remember, Prime Minister, through the President, that was not when you decided. It was decided by the entire government. The government and it was government material common to the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Finance, which said at the time that yes, such a procedure for the Czech Republic and subsequent resolution was given you the task to do so. I'm just asking for the facts, and for those who are watching it, so that it's clear how it went down. If you were buying it, it would be yours and it would be in Agrofert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u21	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. Let me read you a few apologies. Mr Ondřej Polanský apologizes from today's meeting from 10 to 13 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes from 11.30 to 14 o'clock for work reasons; Minister Robert Plaga apologises for today's meeting for work reasons; Mrs Iva Kalátová apologises today between 15 and 19 o'clock for work reasons. There is still an apology from Mr Marek Novák from 9:30 to 14:00 for work reasons. So, I ask you once again if anyone is interested in speaking in the debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in the final word from the plaintiff? It is. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already announced at the outset, no motion for a resolution is prepared. This point is mainly included in this title, so that the words that have been said here are correctly said on this soil, because at the moment we are in a state where we do not have a Minister of Industry and Trade who would clearly have the task. The situation can't be delayed. The European Commission has decided what it has decided. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has taken it his own way, and I firmly believe that this will be one of the most frequently discussed tasks at the Ministry of Industry and Trade - the situation in industry and especially in ArcelorMittal Ostrava. Prime Minister, I would be very pleased if, after analysing the European Commission report, you would inform the honourable House of Czech Government's achievements on the continuation of this case. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-24-ps2017-028-05-001-219.u23	Thank you. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. I see no one, I conclude a detailed debate, and since no resolution has been read in the detailed debate, we therefore have nothing to vote on. I'm here to say that we have properly discussed this point, and I'm done discussing it. Thank you. Opening point number
