ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u1	25. Proposal by Members Věra Adámková, Kamal Farhan, Jiří Ventruba, Vlastimil Válek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 285/2002 Coll., on donation, collection and transplantation of tissues and organs and on the amendment of certain laws (transplantation Act) /house printing 308/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law in the first reading under § 90 para. 2. The Government's position was delivered as House Press No 308/1. I ask that Mrs Věra Adámková, Mrs Věra Adámková's representative, take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me take you with me for a short trip to transplant medicine. I do not think that this subject would often be heard here, but I very much wish that you would understand what we are going to vote on today. Czechoslovak and Czech transplant medicine has always been on top and is really the world leader in some fields, especially in the field of immunological and some transplantations. And to understand why we want to correct the law. He didn't come out of anything other than that he didn't quite understand it. The transplant is life-threatening. And I wish to all, and to those who do not listen to me, that it may never concern them, nor them, nor their relatives, nor from either side, nor as a donor, nor as a recipient. Because a transplant solves a situation that is very close to a truly binomial division of life: yes, no. That's not gonna make me feel better or worse, but I'm gonna die and I'm gonna live. And this is about time. At present, the coordination centre of transplants must apply in writing in the case of a foreigner to his family. That's more or less impossible to solve. And the problem here is that our Czech citizens are at a disadvantage. Because if the stranger who's here and there's an acute failure of a vital organ and he needs a transplant, transplant centers, no matter where he belongs, immediately start negotiations, they look into the waiting list, eventually who this person might match, and he gets the care. Transplanting today is a routine matter, although of course it is still improving there. But if there's another case, that means that there's a stranger here who just unfortunately has polytrauma - because we have to realize that every transplant means that we didn't save someone in most cases - so in this case the struggle for time begins. Because if he doesn't explicitly carry a card that either wants to or doesn't want to donate organs, which is, of course, sacred, and that is fully respected, the coordination centre must currently ask the consulate, the embassies, the families in writing. But you all know what the passports of the foreigners look like. He has a permanent residence here in Old Town Square or in Liberec or anywhere, and then he only has a country of origin, often just a city or a region. It's more or less impossible to track down anything like that. And after a very careful analysis, we have found that we are actually losing our lives to Czech citizens in 10, 15 to 17 cases, because we cannot provide them with an appropriate organ donor from our database. And why is time a problem? The care of the donor, which is the person who is de facto already dead, but not de jure yet, is very complicated. It's very demanding financially, professionally, it's very sophisticated care. The man must not be given a number of medications for circulation, for example, because the organ could not be used. And the time here is relentless. To give you an idea, in the case of the heart, the maximum time of the so-called cold ischemia is four hours, which is when we take away the heart and we have to implant it into the recipient. You can understand that during this time we are unable to obtain any or any negative answer in writing. Because the experience is clear, I want to ask you, and you know that there was a big consensus and we discussed it many times on the Health Committee to make a little change. This means that, of course, we still insist on the supercorrect approach to the person, and that is the Czech transplant medicine known, we still insist that we must, of course, let the family of the person who died, even if he does not associate with them, we do not. So, of course, we want to contact the family there, but also his consulate or embassies, just the official body of this country, so that we can also be there by telephone or fax, so that we are not dependent on written form, because it simply cannot be done by mail. One of the organs that's the least susceptible to the cold ischemia is the kidneys where we have up to 40 hours, which means we can fly the kidney anywhere with the transfer. But even during this time, which you know isn't even the whole weekend, we can't get a match in writing somewhere abroad, because of course we don't have a database. So in this way, if we didn't have to make a written commitment, but we actually contact the family, but of course also the representative office, it would be greatly relieved to those coordinating workers and we could increase the number of transplants for Czech citizens, who are at a disadvantage. So it is very brief, of course I am prepared to answer any questions, but I think it would be appropriate to equalise Czech patients with foreign patients because they do not have a problem with this in our case. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u3	Now, I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Mašek, to take the floor. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the declared intention of the petitioners, which is to simplify and streamline existing legislation in order to increase the number of legitimate donations from foreigners who have died in the Czech Republic. The draft law introduces such contact at the diplomatic mission or consular office of the State of which the foreigner is a citizen, for cases where no contact is known to a person close to a deceased stranger, a new obligation of the coordination centre of transplantation to identify such contact with the diplomatic mission or consular office of the State of which the foreigner is a citizen, on the initiative of the health service provider. Then hand over the contact to the health care provider, who will communicate directly with relatives. So there's going to be an acceleration. This international agreement should also regulate the protection of personal data provided to the extent that it is guaranteed by European law and by the national law of the Contracting Parties. I would just add that, because the petitioner, Professor Adámková, has said this very much, but I would really like to point out here that the authorities of a donor of a foreigner can save several human lives of our fellow citizens, and, of course, there is also a cross-border possibility of delivering these organs to other states. I believe that this legislation is absolutely necessary and that it is important to agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u5	So thank you and I am opening up a general debate in which I see one of the Members enrolled. So Mr. Jiří Ventruba has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, from time to time, we are discussing draft laws concerning foreigners. I remember that one of the last such negotiations was the solution of Prague exchange offices, whether foreigners can claim a disadvantageous course within one or three hours and so on. Today's amendment to Act No.285/2002 Coll., on donation, collection and transplantation of tissue and organs and on the change of so-called transplantation, the Act is, in my view, significantly, significantly more important. The amendment of this law in 2013 enabled organ donation from foreigners who died in our territory, but practice has shown that the existing legislation is too complicated, as my previous speakers have already remembered, and, as a result, we are not very functional and we are reportedly losing the possibility of organ collection from about 15 foreigners annually, which may represent up to a hundred transplantations of potentially usable organs. And that's a high number. [[9.40 hours]] Today's proposed amendment to the Act now favours, as has already been said, the direct contact of a loved one, namely contacting the diplomatic mission, the consular office of the State and the institution as a coordination centre of transplants, etc. He's putting himself in second place. This will increase the number of organs suitable for transplantation and increase the chances of patients waiting for an appropriate organ to improve their quality of life or save their lives. Therefore, I would also like to ask you as a co-president, but also as a doctor for the approval of this amendment in the first reading according to the proposed shortened section 90. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u7	Thank you. I have an actual application here. So, Mr. Petr Pávek. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have fully communicated this matter to the Health Committee. I believe that this amendment is very beneficial and worthy, and I recommend that it be adopted for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u9	Thank you. I'll check the O.R. to see if I have another application. We do. Minister of Health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only very briefly for me. The Ministry of Health consulted this proposal and participated in its preparation, so I fully support it. Indeed, from our point of view, this proposal makes it more flexible to obtain consent for organ transplants from a loved one who is often present and knows that a stranger has agreed to organ withdrawal, but that the current legislation does not allow this consent to be obtained as we would need at the time that Professor Adámková spoke of. As part of the preparation of the proposal, we were based on the credibility of a loved one, on the truthfulness of the information and, of course, we also took into account the very sensitive issue of organ collection and the relationship with foreigners with various religious beliefs, which also plays a role. But I think that the proposal solves all of this, and the government unanimously supported it, and I also give full support for the Ministry of Health in the shortened approval regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u11	Thank you. I do not now have another entry into the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? Yes. Member Jiří Mašek. Sorry. After a detailed debate, you can also have the final word. But now, too. As draftsman, Mrs Věra Adámková still wants to have the final word. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u12	Thanks again for the word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank everyone for their possible support, and believe that by agreeing to the adoption under Section 90 today, you will contribute to saving several lives during the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u13	I would like to point out that we will first vote that the law will be passed at first reading, so I will not start a detailed debate now. So, Mr. Ambassador, if you want to speak as rapporteur now? You're not interested. Okay. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I'm done with the final words. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' We all know what we're voting on. I will now have the Members return to the ballroom. In the meantime, I'll read two apologies to give time. President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček apologizes today from 10 o'clock for working reasons and Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomáš Hanzel apologizes from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for the whole day for working reasons. In the meantime, the Members have gathered for us, so we will vote. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the consent being expressed at first reading? Who's against it? In voting number 87, 175 Members voted in favour of 152, against 0. The motion for a resolution has been adopted and consent has already been given to the law at first reading. I'm done discussing this press. We will proceed to discuss the next item. It's a government bill that changes... [[Objection from the diaper.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I've been speeding things up a little bit. I'm sorry. I am now opening a detailed debate in which the Member has entered, and I am not finished discussing this point, Mr Mašek. Please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u14	Mr President, thank you for creating space and allow me to read the legislative adaptation of point 3 in Article I. Paragraph 3 reads: Article 7 is replaced by the following: The words "or" shall be inserted after the word "alien" in paragraphs 4 and 5 and the words "as referred to in paragraph 1 shall be inserted after the word "alien." 2'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-004-025.u15	Thank you. I'll see if we have anyone else to discuss in detail. I don't see anyone else, so I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for final words. There is no interest in the final words, so we will proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled. You are aware of what Mr Mašek has given us here, so we will not repeat this again. So we'll vote on his proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 88, 175 Members voted in favour of 155, against 0. The result is that it was accepted. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Věra Adámková, Kamal Farhan, Jiří Ventruba, Vlastimil Válek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 285/2002 Coll., on organ donation, collection and transplantation and amending certain laws, the Transplant Act, according to the House of Press 308, as amended'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 89, 179 Members voted in favour of 155, against 0. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. And now the hearing is over. Thank you. We will now proceed to the next point. This is about
