ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u1	317. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 35th meeting of the House, a total of 17 responses to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with were submitted and therefore asked for their inclusion on the agenda of the House meeting. We have 14 more responses to the written interpelations to discuss today. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. First of all, there is the interpelation of Mrs Věra Kovářová to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who was interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is excused, so we will not open this interview. There is also an interpellation of Mr Radek Holomčík to the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, who is also interrupted to the presence of the Minister of the Environment. So we're not going to continue it either. There is also another interview by Mrs Kovářová to the Prime Minister, who is also interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence. It's House Press 595, so we're not going to continue with that either. And then there is Mrs Adamová's fourth interview with Vice-President and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová on the suspicion of tax cuts by Agrofert. It's House Press 598. That was interrupted in the debate, so we're opening up here. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová responded to Mrs Schiller's interpellation on suspicion of tax cuts by Agrofert. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 598. The discussion of this response was suspended in the debate at the time when the speech was submitted to the debate of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and Member Miroslav Kalousek. So I'm opening the debate. And the secretary's logged in, so please, Madam Secretary, if she's interested in speaking. And then, if necessary, the President Kalousek is registered. Please, Madam Secretary. No. Sorry. [[There's no microphone on at the pitch.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, it is a little difficult for me to follow up on this debate after a week, but if I am not limited in time, I would recapitulate my answer so that I do not start in the middle of the sentence. You were actually intersecting me with the ad investigation issue for... I'm looking for it right now, specifically, as you put it, how the Financial Administration received the initiative in 2014 for advertising for... I think it was Chipi... I think it was Imoba's company, I guess? And as she investigated, you're asking me. As she progressed, if there was any responsibility. And so I'm going to avoid what you didn't like last week, and that was that I answered the question, and I'm just going to evaluate the facts. I am in a situation such that, as Minister and as Minister of Finance - it is good, it is good - I do not have access to tax files and I do not have access to specific tax proceedings, because as of 1 January 2013, the Financial Administration bodies have been independent in this matter under the new competence law and I am reliant on information either from the media, as you have, or on the information that the Financial Administration has given me in the documentation because it was able to give it to me. And I'll basically come out of a combination of both. [[9.10 hours]] Last time I had an organigram, I could give it to you to see where I explained the way in which the Financial Administration deals with initiatives from other financial administrations within the European Union. The news has a certain character. These are so-called spontaneous reports that come through a special protected IT channel to the Financial Administration, come through that channel through the General Financial Directorate, here it is a specialized department, here it comes, the department of international cooperation in tax administration, this was the area of direct taxes, and this department has no other option, they can't save it, they just accept it through the protected channel and their duty is to distribute it to the local tax administrator, which in this case was the Financial Office for the Capital City of Prague. The fact that it has not been swept anywhere at this level - I use the interpretation that has been made in the media - confirms the Financial Authority itself for the capital city of Prague, which has repeatedly confirmed in the media that it has received this complaint and that it has spared it. With which result I can no longer know at this point. Of course there are certain procedures, it is governed by the law on international cooperation in tax administration and this procedure has its rules. This means that there are types of queries where the financial administration is directly responsible, then there are types of queries where it doesn't answer, etc. This is described precisely in the law and, on the other hand, there are special methodological guidelines that are either centrally European and then developed by the General Financial Directorate. Then you asked me, if I recall correctly - you were using the media again, and it is true - that the Director of the General Financial Directorate said in the media that there was no complaint from law enforcement authorities. It's coming back from her media statement. The Financial Administration confirms it. That doesn't have to mean anything in itself. It depends on the circumstances which the Financial Administration has found, because of course the problem can have x different tax solutions that I cannot assess, it is simply fully within the competence of the Financial Administration and it is instigating the authorities in criminal proceedings if it finds the circumstances leading to this complaint. I know - and, of course, I've been away for over five years - that there was a time when I was still working on the Financial Administration, a methodological instruction when every supervisory authority had to record it in a special table, or what I would call it, whether it was filing or not to file a criminal report on the matter under investigation, and a brief explanation to make sure that there was some central control over it, and it was not just on the particular worker or workers. Usually it's not one, it's that there's more eye control, and then there's superiors coming in to control the fact that they're looking at it more. I can't really at this point -- you asked me last time, if I remember correctly, if you were saying purely theoretically, forget that there was a company, purely theoretically, if there was an invoice that meant a reduction in the tax base, it would be so undoubtedly, you asked me -- would it be saved, or do you think it would have had an impact? Of course it was. What you asked me, and you asked hypothetically, I answer hypothetically. What you described would be inferior to some form of aggressive tax planning, which I said here x-times, is something that the Financial Administration has been very hard on. We as the Czech Republic are within the European Union - and I am able to document this with specific data, such as a table, an overview, when you need to interpel me next time - we are Eurohujeřs, you will like this - eurohujeřs in the implementation of all directives that concern aggressive tax planning. If we're not the first to implement the directive, and you're deciding on it here in these benches, then maybe we're the second or the third. It happened to me at the Legislative Council of the Government that they once asked me how they did it in Poland, Germany. I said, I don't know, we're the first of those broad guidelines. This means that we implement them all as one of the first ones involved in aggressive tax planning. It is a set of BEPS measures and many other things. This is where we discussed them. But in addition, we introduced, virtually. Financial Administration - something Financial Administration, something Ministry of Finance - for example, in 2016 a special attachment to tax returns, it was in the competence of the Financial Administration, which concerns over-facement between so-called related persons, § 23 para. 7 of the Income Tax Act. As a result, the Financial Administration measured billions. I've had the results tables here, too. Last year, you approved a tax package of 2019 here, and there you approved an obligation that is already coming in, or is coming in, in the 2019 package, it is already effective that companies will communicate to which countries and how much dividends they are sending, so that the Financial Administration can check that the amount of dividends actually corresponds to the profit granted and, in fact, the amount of tax actually paid and the amount of tax that they have paid here properly, and the amount that is actually due to the tax return, that it is not some hidden aggressive planning. I would like to remind you - we put it on the site, I issued a press release, but I will keep reminding you - this year's report by the Supreme Prosecutor, then this year's annual report by the National Bureau of Organized Crime, where both of these prestigious elements - we will certainly not question their independence here, at least with the Supreme Prosecutor's Office - certainly have stated in the annual reports that the government has been made aware of for information that there is a huge decline in tax crimes, which means that the tax crime crimes have decreased. They even link it to, for example, VAT - even if we're talking about income tax here, let me be correct - with an institute like a control report. Even the SAO, which criticizes us very often, states in one of its reports that tax collection has improved greatly. And fighting aggressive tax planning is one of the big themes of both the Treasury and the Financial Administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u3	Thank you. Before I invite any other speakers, I'll introduce you to your apologies. Mr Špičák apologizes to us between 9.00 and 11.00 because of the illness, Mr Hnilička apologizes to us between 9.00 and 12.00 for reasons of work, Mr Nacher apologizes between 9.00 and 11.00 for reasons of work, Mr Golasowská apologises between 9.00 and 11.00 today, Mr Jelínek apologizes between 9.00 and 11.00 for reasons of work, and Minister Kremlík apologises from 11.00 to the end of the negotiations for reasons of employment. It has now been logged in before we interrupt this debate, Mr Kalousek, who is not here at the moment, so the application is forfeit. Mrs Pekarová reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. My question was really about hypothetical companies back then. For simplicity's sake, I called them Adam and Eva from the same holding, where I described the hypothetical situation of such, let's say, a trick that is unfortunately used among some companies, namely, really ordering advertising, which can possibly be evaluated as not being performed at that level or even fictitious. [[9.20 hours]] From your comprehensive answer, I understand that you should consider such a case, whether from your current or past functions, to be precisely the one to be further investigated, to be investigated and to be followed in this case by the procedures that you have shown here graphically. Thank you very much for this, because it can only occur to me, of course, from that hypothetical firm to move into reality, and the reality of how we talked here last week with Mr Plzák, who asked how I can know some of these things, how can I know them when this is a specific case of the company Čapi Nest and others from Agrofert, so this is described fairly clearly in the OLAF report and I would like to quote a passage that is relevant to our issues being discussed here. The analysis of the invoices issued by the company Čapi Nest, a. s., shows from 2010 to 2013 that, when comparing the total amount of revenues from the main products and services, advertising income was 91,25 % in 2010, 80,81 % in 2011, 88,19 % in 2012 and 71,49 % in 2013. These advertising services were provided exclusively to companies belonging to the Agrofert Group, namely Agrofert holding, a. s., on 1 October 2013 the company was renamed Agrofert, a. s., SKW Stickstoffwerke Piesteritz and many others. Here I could really name from Penam, Olma, Lovochemie, Agrotec, Preol, Deza, Precheza, Prechezy, Zema, Primagra, and others are a whole series. In this case, we don't have to talk about Adam and Eva's companies anymore, but about the specifics I've named here, and also add that the Chapi Nest farm, a.s., doesn't have advertising services in the subject of business even at the time we're talking about it. If we're going to put this context here, or this original context right here, and these particular findings, we might have a hard time questioning you, so I want to ask you if, and now I'm really not really talking about some specific procedure that may have already taken place, but on your point of view, your opinion as an expert on this area, which has actually worked in positions that know the procedures that you've already told us here, so whether or not you think it should be an answer yes or no, there's going to be an investigation into the suspicions that this Olaf report actually suggests. Thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Michálek has now applied, so I accept that the Minister will report afterwards. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Minister, following her speech, what is written in those papers, how has been done with the criminal report, virtually. with the announcement that came from Germany about the company from Agrofert Group. How the Financial Administration handled these documents from Germany.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u7	Thank you and now Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u8	Thank you. I'll sum up both questions. Mrs Pekarová Adamová, I have in my case that olaf's report has not been officially published - I cannot find it now. What you have interpreted is from the media, we do not yet have an official translation of Olaf's report. Processors are based on a translation made by a journalist and published on the Internet. But it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. That's word-telling. I have said here, and that is all I know that the Financial Administration has received the initiative, the Financial Authority itself has confirmed that it has spared it or is saving it, it is directly from the media, that is, no one has swept it under the carpet, for example at the level of the General Financial Directorate, as speculated also in the media, and they have investigated it and the only conclusion that the Director General has indicated in the media that no criminal report has been filed. And it's a matter of Financial Administration. And these things you've asked me are the things the Financial Administration has been saving. I've been there for 25 years. I even remember in Brno huge control actions for these advertisements in 15 twenty years ago, when we did not have such cooperation within the European Union. There was no international exchange of information that works today, and it was already being saved, because then, of course, in those pioneering times, the subjects were allowed, and now we're talking hypothetically, they allowed a lot more, and there were massive nationwide control actions, I remember them, big ones, which ended with huge prosecutions. So all I know is that the Financial Administration itself has said that it has received the initiative, that it has dealt with it, and I can say with responsibility after 25 years in the Financial Administration, and I will always stand up for them in this regard, that the Financial Administration and its officials are acting under the slogan to whom they fall. It doesn't matter if it's, like you said, you named it, AB, or you gave it a shortcut, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. And on your question, Mr. Chairman Michálek, it is actually similar. Financial administration, it's in her jurisdiction. There's a clue there. There must be a clear, transparent trail. Maybe it was the kind of answer they responded to Germany. I don't know that at this point, of course. They admitted themselves to the media, we received the initiative, and not on a level, at the level of the office. So it's clear he fell through the funnel, yet he can't even fail from the protected sieve. He goes in there and nobody can stop him and just sweep him under the rug. The logic of this thing, the way it works, it's just not possible. And the office told us we had it, and we're saving it. And the last thing I said was that the Treasury has certain powers. It can't enter this lively trial. And that's good, I'm glad. This has been introduced since 1 January 2013, so I am more or less praising the previous period. That was the right move, depoliticizing the Financial Administration, and this is what happened. That means the Treasury can't enter. He can't enter the trial. He can't dictate how to proceed, but he has one option, and that's called. surveillance activity, when he can carry out surveillance. And the subject of that surveillance is whether it's just progressing in the standard way. Whether the investigation is based on legal or methodological procedures. He can do that, and I do not want to talk about it at this time because of the instandardity of the process, but, of course, we are doing everything we can to fully fulfil our competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u9	Thank you. I see the MP is reporting. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to a note. I apologise, Mr Ferjenčík, from 9 a.m. to 9.45 p.m. for family reasons. And now, Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u10	Thank you for the floor. I also think that the Financial Administration, all the authorities in this country should treat every entity exactly the same regardless of who owns it and that is why we welcome them here. And the fact that you said that there is a fall approach here, which is why I want to ask you: If it proves at any time in the future that this approach in this particular case has not been like this, it means that there have actually been some suspicions that are going to be fulfilled, that they are true and that they are not just suspicions, and that therefore there has been a non-standard approach to this particular case right here, so if you are willing to draw political responsibility from this as a minister who is politically responsible for this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u11	Thank you. Mr. MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u12	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to make sure that I got it right, so this thing is still alive and it's still in the Financial Administration, it's still not finished, so there's no record of it being processed in any of the lists you were talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u13	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u14	I'll say it first - I don't know, Mr. Chairman. All I know is that the Financial Administration said she got the initiative and she's saving it. What stage is he at, if he's finished, he's not finished. And then I know from the media from the CEO-- she said it to the media-- she didn't file a criminal report. That's all I know. I have no right to get any other information. The only thing the Ministry can do is make sure the procedures are standard. That's the only competence. And your question. I know you want to catch me here and so on. I rule it out. I rule out the fact that Financial Administration officials don't follow the law. Those officials are there today under the Civil Service Act. The Civil Service Act was passed by this Chamber of Deputies, maybe last time, but it doesn't matter. I mean, like a souvenir. I did, they have clear responsibilities. They don't care who the finance minister is, they don't care. They follow the law. Ministers just come and go, but they have to do their duty the same. So it's just completely out of the question at this point - and it's a good thing the finance minister doesn't interfere with these things. I do not know exactly what cases and to what extent and how long the Financial Administration saves. I know only methodical procedures, and I or my deputy, under which the Financial Administration is organised, this is the Director of Taxation and Customs, can supervise whether it is proceeding in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u15	Thank you. I just got a report from Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u16	I remind you that we're talking about a time when you weren't a secretary when you were in the Financial Administration alone. And that's why I think that if you rule it out that categorically, clearly, you can say the same thing about this microphone and stand up for the political responsibility. That means you're willing to vouch for it so much, because you really believe that it's all going on as standard, there's really no way that this is an unusual approach to this particular case, that you're responsible for this political responsibility. So I ask more clearly: yes or no?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u17	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond, please. And I'll ask for more peace in the room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u18	We are spinning in circles, Madame. I have political responsibility for any failure, any illegal interference, any political intervention. That, of course, is an unacceptable, totally unacceptable thing for me, and I would never let it. And if you come and prove yourself to me, I will bear political responsibility. I even think I should bear the criminal consequences if something like this happens. I rule it out, and, of course, I rule out the fact that the Financial Administration officials - why would they act like that? You want, you assume, I don't know where you're pushing me. Do you presume that they are receiving instructions? Would they be given instructions to act in any way? That's completely out of the question. None of these officials are gonna do that. None of those officials. I've been a clerk for 25 years, maybe 27, when I add the deputy, I was a clerk too. We just know how to act. According to the law, according to ethics, according to morality, so that - I have always understood my work, and believe that most officials understand it that way, at least if I speak for the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration's department as a public service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u19	Thank you. Mr. Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u20	Thank you for the floor. I was going to ask the Minister if it would be possible to tell us, if this thing is already closed, how it was handled. And if it's not closed, I understand, of course, that it's a living thing and that it's not our place to interfere at all. However, if this matter has already been settled, I think that both the Members and the citizens deserve some detailed answer about the way in which they came here from Germany, from a neighbouring country - and it is probably not that they are simply sending some paperwork to the Czech Republic on matters they do not think are serious - so that we have some information about how it has been handled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u21	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u22	That is exactly what, Prime Minister Michálek, is not possible. I can't. And you can be angry all you want. It wouldn't be possible even if it was a tax thing for any of your fellow party members. It doesn't matter who it is. It's never possible. It is so-called - you are a lawyer, you understand me - it is the so-called legal obligation of secrecy approved by the Chamber of Deputies. It has already been in the Tax Administration and Charges Act, and it has been much stricter in the Tax Code since 1 January 2011. And it's a good thing he's there. It's good. We're protecting - and completely now forget it's Agrofert, if it's the čapí's nest, if it's anyone's. It's protection. And nothing ever happened to miss anything. It's protection. And as I do not have the information, I cannot get it, I will never ask for it, I will never risk the political responsibility to which Mrs Pekarová calls me, I will never risk asking informally. Because, of course, I would always risk the information leaking, asking questions. I will never break the law in this regard. So you can only ask the Financial Administration. The only ones who can get information are law enforcement agencies, that is, a prosecutor, a police authority. But again, in the situation described in Section 52 of the Tax Code. And then, of course, there's some lockouts, but they're not related to this case. So the Minister of Finance doesn't include it. The Ministry of Finance can only check whether the procedure was standard. He can check that out. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u23	Thank you. So Mr. Michálek is still reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u24	I can see that this place has some religious motives, which I'm sorry, I'd like it to be a discussion. I simply think that if there is such a serious matter here, we, as opposition, should have some tools to ensure that any suspicion is actually refuted, if there really is such a suspicion in the field, let's say - a company owned by a political entity or mediated by Prime Minister Babiš through trust funds, we really don't see it there at all. And actually, the only person we can rely on is you, or the director, who you name there. So you understand that we, as opposition, feel that we should say something about it, but that at the same time, as you say, we don't have the tools to do anything about it. The law enforcement authorities will only learn about this if the Financial Administration sends it to them again, so there is simply a risk that the competence is concentrated at that point, and there is no way of external control. I think -- if there's anything the SAO could do, there's one if it could enter that kind of thing. I don't know. I'm interested in your opinion. And I'd also like to know what you said about the surveillance you're planning on doing on this matter. I think that would be good to explain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u25	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u26	I'm not saying I'm planning it. I said it was one of the tools, and I said that maybe the tool has already been applied. But that, as a result of some impartiality, I don't want to anticipate things that are not yet completed. Prime Minister Michálek, you're a lawyer, I'm a lawyer. And we're gonna run this thing on a case-by-case basis. That's good. What you're calling for would be wrong. Now it suits you, because it concerns, as you say, Prime Minister, his former firm. Next time it's about someone else, I'm not gonna point at anyone, I don't want to be personal. That's good. Financial governance must be depoliticized. It is precisely that political influences, regardless of who they are, must not interfere with her work. I, as Deputy Finance Minister, will set such a quick example. They were terribly politicized by the past - it was not about you, it was about other political matadors - they politicized terribly so-called koruna bonds. And then the CEO of the Financial Administration succumbed to the pressure of the budget committee and various resolutions, and that - because he was also under mandatory confidentiality and could not say whether he was saving Adam here or simply saving someone else, so he said: I will investigate all cases. And then I got out of the media, and I said, "That's wrong, that's political pressure." [[9.40 hours]] The financial administration has set clear criteria, perhaps now it does not concern this case, to investigate koruna bonds, methodical, I think correct - now I look at it from my expert point of view - it had about 5, 6, 7 criteria, where the companies you followed would fall according to the media conclusions. And the fact that it was possible to investigate 5,000 cases that the capacity had been drained was just wrong, because the capacity could have been used for completely different cases. So the political pressure you're calling for, the political control, would be the worst thing that could happen. No matter who is in power, no matter who is in the Chamber of Deputies. And what else did you ask me? That means it's subject to Section 52. If you find a breakthrough there, I say you won't find it there, so contact the Financial Administration, she'll answer you as much as I do, and she can't give it to me, and I don't want it. And as far as criminal charges are concerned, of course, you're wrong that he's going to file the Financial Administration, or that the authorities will only worry about it if he makes the criminal charges. Anyone can file a criminal report. Anyone can file a criminal report, who knows about the facts suggesting it, you know as a lawyer that a crime has been committed. And the SAO, if it falls within the competence of the SAO, I'm not going to tell you at this point, but all I have in my background is that the SAO didn't care. If the SAO can in this direction, I don't think it can in open case. But I don't want to interfere with the SAO's competence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u27	Thank you. I will now introduce the House to the note. Minister Toman apologizes to us today and tomorrow for reasons of work and apologies to Mr Plzák between 10 and 12 for reasons of work. Mr Kalousek is now reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u28	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, you said to President Michálek: you are a lawyer, I am a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer, but for six years, I've been a finance minister, you're also a finance minister. And you worked Financial Services for years. So we both know that when the initiative comes to the General Financial Directorate, he's being treated by some kind of process. He's being referred to someone. Based on its contents. Either the risk analysis department gets it, or the direct tax department gets it. [[The Minister shall show the table to the Members.]] And you showed it here, yes. This incentive is passed on to someone. I agree, yes. It's going through this process. Thank you for the graph, I didn't have my own work done. And it is also transferred locally to the competent financial office, which I suspect in the case of Čapi's čapí is the territorial site of Benešov. I can imagine the operation would have escaped if the complaint hadn't been sent. At the moment the complaint was sent and the workplace got it, the responsible financial administration officer must have seen that I don't want to say it was realized, but it billed 280 miles. for advertising. If it were 280 thousand, then with the sharp attention that the Financial Administration pays to advertising costs and to optimize the tax liability for advertising, only 280 thousand. He'd be pretty busy around it. It is absolutely impossible, it is absolutely impossible that, after the initiative has come, the Financial Administration could escape a completely senseless non-realizable volume of 280 miles. I'm on the nest. I would like to say, on the basis of the many years of experience I have at the Ministry of Finance, that this matter has been tucked under the carpet completely, that something that should not have been swept away has been swept away. If you said that the Financial Administration was to be depolitized and measured by everyone equally, I'm 100% sure that wasn't the case in this case. That because she wasn't depolitized, she forgave and spared her minister. Since it is not imaginable, it is not conceivable for anyone who knows a little bit the mechanisms of financial authorities and Financial Administration that 280 miles. It would just get away with it. This is ridiculous! That could have gone through one single person, that was the Treasury Secretary at the time, and I don't rule out the fact that a criminal act might have been committed to cover up the case under the carpet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u29	Thank you. Madam Secretary will still respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u30	One sentence, because the Prime Minister wasn't here, so he didn't hear my previous performance. It didn't sweep under the carpet, it's uncleanable under the carpet, such cases, in general. This is where I showed the organs, you confirmed that this is how it works. It will fall through a protected channel to the Financial Authority and the Financial Office for the Capital City of Prague has confirmed that it has received and saved, or saved, or saved. That's all. More subject, other information subject to confidentiality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u31	Chairman Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u32	Madam Secretary, of course I have no instrument to prove otherwise. I only have my normal judgment, and I have experience with your claims. If you recall, a year ago, I protested that the bounty was being written on housewives. You authorityally stated even on TV that you had it checked and that it was nonsense that no such instruction was given. After a year on the same television, you said with the same authority that the directive that was never issued was canceled by the Director-General. You really can't ask me to trust you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u33	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová is still reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u34	So to sum it up, to get to another of the interpellations that are in order. So, Madam Secretary, what I think is very important is that she said on this microphone that she's ready to draw political responsibility from it if she proves to be, and because the police are saving this case according to publicly available information, we may soon find out how it really was with sweeping under the carpet. We're really gonna have it in black and white. And then it was clearly noted here that today, on this microphone, you said that you would bring political responsibility out of it. For me, it's important if you really stand up for those words, which, when you nod, I guess you do. [[The Minister is standing in front of the rhetorical site.]] So I believe that you will also receive this particular statement that was here. I think we can now, if my colleagues have not yet, I am looking at the President here, interested, so I would like to propose a resolution which could put an end to this interpelation. [[Michálka]] But I see there's still interest, so I'd prefer a colleague and suggest them afterwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u35	Thank you. Of course, you can propose a resolution at any time in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u36	So I will propose a resolution, because there were many questions in the interpelation, and I believe that many of them were also responsible without the need to refer to the provisions in the law on confidentiality, so I will ask you to approve the resolution that I do not agree with this response to the interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u37	Okay, thank you, I've noticed. Mr. Michálek still reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u38	Thank you for the floor. I, of course, take note of what the Minister says. I'm the last person who would like to politicize the functionality of the state administration's authorities in relation to tax administration. However, at the same time, I think that some control mechanism from external control should be set up there, because taxes are the source of the state's income, and if it stays completely out of control, there may also be some negative phenomena. So I would like to make an announcement that I will consider whether the SAO is in charge of this matter and whether the Chamber of Deputies should ask the SAO to carry out an independent tax control on this closely defined section in the area of settlement of foreign incentives for possible tax evasion related to advertising.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u39	Thank you. So, Mr. MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would ask, on behalf of the ANO Group, for a five-minute break before the vote on the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u41	Okay. That's very unusual, but if there's no senior member of the YES club, I'll put it at your disposal. If no one else is going into the debate, I am ending the debate on this press. I have a motion for a dissenting resolution, and there's a five-minute recess for the ANO club meeting, so I'm taking a break until 9.55 hours, then we'll vote. [[Votes from Members of the Chamber: Twenty-five. Five?]] Five minutes. [[Voice from the O.R.: 25?]] Twenty-five minutes? Five minutes. By 9.55 o'clock. [[Voice from the O.R. Sorry.]] Just in case: five minutes break until 9.55 o'clock. [[The hearing is suspended from 9.50 to 9.55 hours.]] Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 9.55 o'clock. We will therefore continue to discuss the House Press 598, which is Mrs Pekarová's interpellation to Minister Schillerová on the suspicion of tax cuts by Agrofert. We interrupted the meeting for five minutes at the ANO club meeting. I'll call all my colleagues to the O.R. There's an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please log in with your cards again, and when the number of entries is settled and is greater than 66... it looks like we're all logged in. We will vote on the House's dissenting position with this interpelling. I think it's clear what we're voting on. Initiating vote. I ask, then, who is in favour of disagreeing? Who's against it? There are 93 Members and Members in the 159 vote, for 36, against 47. The motion was not accepted. That's how we drained all of this. I am done discussing this press and we will move on to another interpellation, which is the interpelation of Mrs Dana Balcarová on the sale of the Počerady Pavel Tykač power plant to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. This is the House's 601. Mrs Balcarová is not present, so the interpellation is failing and we will no longer deal with her. Furthermore, there is an interpelling of Mr Lubomír Volný on the life situation of Mr Karel Kraina. It's House Press 602, it's an interpellation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, so that's what we're going to deal with. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Lubomír Volný's interview on Mr Karel Kraina's life situation. Interpelation, together with the reply, presents 602 as the House's press. I am opening the debate and, please, the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to request that the meeting be adjourned until the Prime Minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u43	Thank you. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. So we're going to vote. Looks like everyone's here. I will repeat that we will vote on the interruption of this interpellation to the Prime Minister's presence. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against interruption? In the vote number 160, 97 Members and Members are registered, for 48, against 29. The proposal has not been adopted, so we will continue to discuss it, and I will therefore give the floor again to Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I am quite surprised by the attitude of members of the ANO movement. I don't know if we've ever seen anything like this before. Let me introduce you to what's going on. I'm not gonna load the whole interpellation because it's available in the system. The point is that Mr Karel Kraina personally met with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš at one of the election meetings within the Moravian-Silesian Region and the Prime Minister was personally promised that if the ANO movement wins the election, he will become Prime Minister, so he will arrange or arrange a meeting with Mr Krain with the Minister or Minister of Justice in the case of the restoration of his criminal proceedings, in which, in his opinion, Mr Kraina was unjustly convicted after being attacked by a group of socially inadaptable fellow citizens, and the assault came as a culprit despite all the evidence submitted. The purpose of this interpelation was for Mr Karel Kraina to be given a chance to watch the appearance of the Prime Minister of this country live, either confirming his promise and explaining why he didn't fulfill it, or telling him, let's say, through our direct, online transmission, that he had never promised him anything like this. I am sorry that this will not happen, and I am sorry that another citizen of the Czech Republic has encountered arrogance and lack of interest not to this House, but to the members of the ANO movement. This would probably put an end to my intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u45	Thank you. I'll introduce you to the note. We're sorry, Mr. MP... Mr Juchelka cancels his apology, is present from 9.45 pm. Mr Bauer, on the other hand, apologizes to us between 10.00 and 11.30 for working reasons, and Mr Klaus apologises to us for working reasons up to 13.00 today. Now, if no one else is to be heard, then I am ending the debate on this point. The motion for a resolution is not proposed by the Member, so we will no longer deal with this intercession. And there's another interpellation, and that's... Chairman Michálek with priority rights?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I really consider this chamber to be undignified, that if the Prime Minister is excused and is not present, there is no answer to the interpellation of the Member. I think that we should give the opportunity for this matter to be discussed when the Prime Minister is present, and I think that in this way a majority in the Chamber of Deputies should not abuse its majority of votes and prevent opposition Members from discussing points here just because their prime minister did not appear at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. It seems to me that it is simply unfair and it reduces the level of culture in our policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u47	Thank you. Let's keep going. There is also an interview between Mr Zdeněk Ondráček on the alleged sale of the spa house Mercur in Mariánské Lázně to Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Jan Hamáček. It's House Press 611. And then I'll hand over the chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u48	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, we will continue. This is my colleague Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Home Secretary is not present, but let me brief you at least in a nutshell before I ask for a break in the interpellation of one, and I gave the second interpelation right away, and in the meantime I received an answer yesterday. Police of the Czech Republic, respectively. The Ministry of the Interior operates spa times throughout the Czech Republic through its organization Services of the Ministry of the Interior. The most famous - Karlovy Vary - Tosca, Františkovy Lázně - Luna, Luhačovice as well as Mariánské Lázně - spa house Mercur. Police officers who serve, and not only police officers, but also firefighters, have the right after serving 15 years of service to spa rehabilitation care. There are several forms that they can perform. According to the Minister's reply, 28,000 people are entitled to this kind of rehabilitation each year, but the capacity in the spa houses is only 8.5,000, or just over 8,000. I have received information from fellow police officers and firefighters that the Minister is considering selling one of the spa houses, namely the Mercur spa house in Mariánské Lázně, and I will read to you what is written about this facility on the site of the Services of the Ministry of the Interior: The Mercur spa house is located in the most beautiful location of the city directly opposite the colonnade with mineral springs. Capacity of beds 91 etc. The most beautiful location right in the center of the city. The Ministry of Interior has decided to say that it is unnecessary for them because they would have to invest - the Minister of Finance, try listening - 300 million crowns! But since they're supposed to save up 3% of people under government orders, they've decided to hand out statements to everyone and declare the object unnecessary. Cops today, and those who go there even know who should be the one to take over the object, and they decided they just don't need the object. The building, which lies in the most beautiful location directly on the colonnade, the Ministry of the Interior has it in its possession, and in order to save 3 percent, as the government wants it to, so all employees will be released, will reduce the capacity for members, which will subsequently be purchased elsewhere for much more money than the poor 300 million crowns. The decision was quite quick, because preparations for the reconstruction of the building were still in progress last year and this year. There is a need to build a dining room, because the facility does not have its own dietary options, but the project, which is ready, and all the necessary procedures are underway, talks about the completion of the building by one building, which connects two existing buildings and will also make catering capacity for police officers who perform rehabilitation in nearby Františkovy Lázně. That's where the food would be imported. So they would kill themselves so-called. Two birds with one stone. Everything was still going on at the beginning of the year, preparing for reconstruction etc. But in order to save 3 percent of people, and by not having the alleged 300 million crowns, we will declare this property unnecessary, where no one wants to go, and they will go. Even in the answer I will ask to discuss next time, it is stated that the stay of members in the rehabilitation period will be reduced from the current two weeks - but take it that it is only ten days, the first week you arrive on Monday, you are there all weekend and the next week you leave on Friday, so it is some 12 days, on Monday the procedures are not, and the last day it will not - that it will shorten your stay for one week. That means a police officer or firefighter who serves in the Moravian-Silesian region will travel 500 kilometers across the whole republic to board within 12 hours, and on Friday morning he will pack up and go home. Try telling me, you health professionals, or who are engaged in spa care, what will make sense - three days of procedures! [[10.10 hours]] I spoke to the Minister of Health here in the foyer and he said to me: Absolute nonsense. In order for it to have meaning, the spa must be at least ten days. At least. But standard would be more than two weeks, or two weeks, and longer. But we will cut to three days because the union has agreed to this, discussed in the Ministry and saved 3 percent of people who will not be unemployed because qualified nurses, or staff working in this facility, will find their application in the surrounding spa houses quite quickly. And the minister was very quick, last week he was giving out statements, so those people are in depositions and the steps that the Ministry of the Interior is taking are very quick to have the building abandoned since the end of the year, transferred to the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs. No one will be interested and bought by the one that the policemen, who warn me, who is interested in it, buy the building in the most beautiful locality of the city, directly opposite the colonnade with mineral springs directly in the building. This is how the government of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of the Interior intend to manage their property, to manage the property with care of a proper economy. I recently filed a criminal complaint against the Ministry of the Interior for the sale of another building in which tens of millions of crowns were invested, accommodation capacity, listen well, around 50 beds in a beautiful location protected landscape area, sold for 2.5 million crowns. Two million six hundred fifty. I said back then, "Where the hell I was, I'd take a mortgage loan and buy the place!" But someone else bought it, and the Ministry of the Interior got CZK 2.5 million in its chapter and lost the capacity of 50 beds in another facility. But that doesn't concern Mercur's spa house. So I, my fellow Members, would like to introduce you to those of you who would like to do so, and at the next meeting, that we would try to intersect the Minister of the Interior on this matter, if you would give me the opportunity and agree that I would ask for the interruption of this intersitation in the presence of the Minister. Maybe the Minister knows why he's not here, because he's excused within 11 hours, statements are handed out, and the longer this goes on, the steps will be unstoppable, and once we talk about it, he'll say, "Bad luck, these people are somewhere else, and we have to shut it down, because we don't have those people anymore, and there's no one who's gonna give the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps the care they need and we've guaranteed them by law. So I am asking you to suspend this interpelation until the Minister of the Interior is present, and I ask you to support this proposal and help me in this interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u50	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. I'm gonna sing. I will ask colleagues who are in the foyer to come if they are interested in voting. I checked you out, I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will vote on the proposal to suspend the consultation, according to the House press 611, in the presence of the Minister of the Interior and the first Vice-President of the Government, Jan Hamáček. I'll wait a little longer... We can vote. I have begun the vote by order number 161 and I ask who is in favour of the interruption motion. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 161 of the 77 for 72, against no one. The proposal was adopted and the consultation of the Parliament's press 611 was suspended. We will continue with the further interventions put forward by Members in writing and were not satisfied with the ministers' replies. Another intervention is the interpelation according to the House's press 615. This is an interpelation by Zbyněk Stanjura to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček, who responded to this interpelation about the number and structure of self-employed people. I am opening the debate and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is reporting. Calm down, please. The chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u51	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I have intersected the Minister of Industry and Trade for the purpose of uniting data and facts so that we can then have a substantive discussion on these data and facts. I was actually interested in the number of CFIs, the distributions that have it as the main activity and the secondary, the sum, and then actually the age distribution, the division by age, and I specifically asked about the number of CFIs that are simultaneously studying or receiving a pension at the same time. If you look at the answer I got from the minister and his ministry, you'll find that we have a little bit of confusion in our legislation. I don't blame the Ministry or the Minister. If you look, according to the trade law we have natural persons who do business, then according to the Act on Pension Insurance and Social Security we have self-employed persons, and in order to ensure that it is not enough, so still follows, I apologize, to say exactly, the Czech Statistical Office of self-employed persons in the Czech Republic. And if you look, the numbers just don't add up. We have three records, there are different numbers each time. I think it is a task for legislation, that is, for the House and for the Senate, so that we can only unify it if possible, so that we only have one number. The reason we wanted those numbers is because we want to open up a debate about the possible support of some groups, perhaps some age groups, and so on, maybe we could discuss whether they should be exactly the same conditions for those who have major or secondary activities. However, the numbers I received, the tables contained in the Houses of Print 615, are telling. I have no comment on this, only with the suggestion that it would probably be intermediate to look at it and if possible unite the name. We still call businessmen small businessmen, businessmen, self-employed persons, natural persons who do business, and self-employed persons. And I think that would be good. Here we see what is troubling us in the public administration repeatedly, and not just in this area. We've got a lot of data, we've been running them repeatedly, we've been running them on different central government bodies, and the numbers don't add up. In fact, I believe the Minister is saying that this is due to various methodologies. Which one of us can imagine the difference between a self-employed person and a self-employed person? I say for myself that I am not able to define the difference between a self-employed person and a self-employed person. And if you look, the difference is in hundreds of thousands. If we come out of the fact that the trade authorities are correctly registering, it is correct to say that it is a registration body, an entrepreneur, or a natural person who is doing business, we conclude that we have more than 2 million of them, but we have 1 million of them - divided into main and secondary activities. I don't know if the argument, which is definitely true, that even those who have suspended trade performance are being led there, or simply do not make it even though they are registered, if it is really 50 percent. Maybe it would be worth clearing the databases, maybe even on some legislative initiative, so we know exactly. But I actually expressed my disagreement because of the last paragraph of the answer that disappoints me, that paragraph disappoints me. And if we get that kind of answer, we'll have no choice but to contact the Prime Minister directly with each interpellation, because I believe the Prime Minister will then take on all the ministries and we'll get all the answers to the questions we've asked. [[10.20 hours]] Last paragraph, I quote it to you: The number of students, the number of citizens who receive an old-age or disability pension, does not have the Ministry of Industry and Trade available. It is recommended to contact the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on this issue, respectively. Czech Social Security Administration, or. Czech Statistical Office. - It reminds me of a story about a faucet and a chicken. Minister, I have been expecting and expect your officials to do this, that they will find the right state institution, find the data, answer me, and if I disagree, the entire Chamber of Deputies will learn that information. Then I will suggest that we disagree not with what the answer contains, but with the fact that I am asking the Minister directly to supplement the data to communicate with either the MPSV, the statistical office or the Czech Social Security Administration. I'm not gonna write another three interviews with the same question in the same thing, that seems unproductive to me. Again, I think this shows the more general problem of the Czech public administration that we repeatedly provide data, while the state does not have central records. Instead of the state institutions passing on information, in this case, if the MIT had requested an MPSV, I believe that the MPSV would have sent the information. And it happens to Members, it happens to citizens, it happens to companies. I think we should have a system of one door, that if I ask for something, and if it's not just at the window, at the institution, those institutions will communicate with each other and to the citizen - I hope that the citizens are also Members - or MEPs will provide that information. At the moment, if I get an answer, and I believe the Minister will support my request, and that he will require his officials to get it, I will no longer oppose this intercession and I will have all the data at my disposal. And we ourselves and our colleagues and experts will advise whether we are able to write a change of law from the opposition benches that would unite the record so that there is, if possible, one authority that will record it so that there are relevant data and that there is only one sign, so that when we say in the Czech language, it's okay, small businessmen, tradesmen, civil servants, so that there is one database. Unfortunately, there are three databases at the moment, which is certainly not the problem of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which I would like to stress. So my proposal to disagree only concerns the last paragraph, only those data which unfortunately does not contain the answer to my interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u52	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the intervention. I think it's important to talk about it like that, because it's really not easy for a common mortal to get into it. The principle is that there really are different databases, when I simplify them a lot, so one is under the administration of our department, so it is the trade, the other is under the CSO, as it fell here, and another is under the Czech administration of social security. Let's just say that these numbers, even if they look different at first glance, so if we look a little deeper, they're basically all right, and the problem is that these databases follow different criteria in terms of how they're classified, which, of course, at first glance, may seem like a certain complication. Before I get to the more detailed numbers, I'm going to say the rudest sight to look at the businessmen. I've been following this for almost the last ten years as part of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders. I admit it's slightly rounded, and I'll specify the numbers, but in principle, the problem is even deeper. We can really say that we have approximately plus or minus 2 miles. natural persons who are registered as self-employed persons. Approximately - and this hasn't been mentioned - these two miles. persons hold 3 mil. Trade certificates, that means 1.5 goes out to one person, which is nothing special, it just has pedestals for two things. I say this because it is very often misrepresented in the media, too, that it is said how many entrepreneurs there are, and yet it changes for how many trade certificates are dealt. Well, that doesn't mean anything in itself, because the important thing is how many are active. I'm about to get to what's actually an active and inactive businessman. The active ones who are in business - and let's make it simple - are the ones who are doing social security in this case, either as advances or as final payments - that's about a million. So it's actually going to be about a million - two - three. And now, about that one million. He's not exactly one million, it's 1 028 thousand. A self-employed person, i.e. self-employed persons. Let's take a closer look at them. First of all, they are really those who do business, at least we are based on the fact that when they pay social security or advances, they are interested in doing business and doing business, with the fact that it still has to be distinguished that they have to be considered and they have to decide, respectively. they must categorize who is the principal and who is the secondary, because it is a bit misleading. 1 028 thousand., if we actually took that they are active, it should be said that we would be the one here in Europe, and I dare say, we do not have it all completely mapped out, that perhaps even the one in the world in terms of the number of active entrepreneurs per population. The fact is, in this number, 1028 thousand. There are 40 percent of those who do this as a secondary activity - let me give you an example, a teacher, and she's still giving English lessons outside, or anyone else - and 60 percent are those who only do this activity. In view of what statistics Germany may use - now I'm just going to make a turn - where they categorize 2.8 million. Traders on the 80-mile mark. the population, it is already the number, the active ones, about 600 thousand, that is 60 percent, compared to the total population in the Czech Republic it is still a little near. Still, we have to say that we are really one of the world's leaders in this, in any case European 100%, and it is undoubtedly the result of the 1990s, when trade started here and almost everyone was getting a trade certificate. Then, of course, it fell apart, business leaves remained locked in drawers and - and this is an important report - we as the Ministry of the MIT, respectively. The trade union, so after a certain period of time, tries to ask for all those active and inactive trades and reduce them, but it always goes beyond a certain time horizon. Interesting still in the development of the number of tradesmen, once again 1 million 28 thousand, is how their numbers developed up and down, and especially how their numbers developed in the main activity and in the secondary activity. And I think it's quite interesting. I'll make it up to you in the last ten years, make sure there's a period. In 2009, we had 957 thousand. Traders, now we have 1 028 thousand. With this falling by around 2015, it has been growing again since 2016, and the good news is that we have a relatively interesting shift of almost 20 thousand in the last year. tradesmen. However, this must also be seen from the point of view - and this is not quite the good news - of those activities in the main activity and in the secondary activity. It should be said that at the moment we have 60 percent of those in the main activity and 40 percent of those in the secondary activity. And the good news again is that both of these activities have been growing in recent years. I'm just going to say one number-- there's now 600 thousand in the main activity. and there were 585 thousand. Two years ago, so luckily, it's growing. But in 2009 there were still 70 percent of those who had the main activity and 30 percent of those who had the secondary activity. Where there's a reason why we've had a growing number of side businessmen over the last ten years, it's largely linked to women's entry into business. Because when we look at it, it's quite interesting for the last ten years, so the absolute addition or loss of men in business is zero, the absolute increase of women in business is 50 thousand. This means that women in the last ten years as self-employed people have been going to work and it is because they take it a lot as a side job, they are women, for example, on maternity leave, they are women who may have lost their jobs and started their business, women who wanted to become independent in some way, I cannot evaluate it sociologically, but in any case, those women have played a pretty important role in this to some extent. Well, that's about the numbers. [[10.30 hours]] Regarding the other part of the question, which was addressed to the structure. I don't think I'm going to be here to show in detail what the business structure is in terms of age. But I think one interesting trend has to be said, and that's that we're getting older by the population of businessmen, which is given again by the fact that those who started doing business in the 1990s are just getting to the retirement age and the amount of those who are coming new, even though, fortunately, in the last three years, it's starting to grow and turn around, so it's not catching up on the amount of those who end up in that retirement age the natural way, or on the way they're just getting older. So we're starting to increase the number of people who are 60 or more, and that's pretty dramatic. I mean, 60 years or more. So it starts to tilt in favor when I say it like that in quotes, the group that's already an advanced age, or at the age of 60 or more. So it's just about the trend. About the last part of the question. There I think it is not difficult to accommodate the fact that our office will also provide all the data that is possibly still at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and in the Czech Statistical Office. I don't have a problem with that, and we'll do it. It's a job we can do, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u54	Thank you, Minister. Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. And then another colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u55	First of all, I want to thank you for your helpfulness. I'm sure it'll make my job easier. And I'm sure I'll make it available to my colleagues who are interested in the numbers. The Minister actually mentioned the two trends that I wanted to mention as well. It's about 60 over 40. I think it's a good thing we all remember one, two, three million. Those are numbers that... 22,000 extra isn't entirely relevant. However, the percentage of those who are in the main activity is really decreasing. Minus the numbers from the interpellation, about 2012 it was 65, 35. And today it's 60 over 40. And at the same time from that trend is evident what the minister said that the population, virtually. The age of the tradesmen increases. That's where the question about the number of students was headed, how to motivate young people to try to feed on their own. To have the numbers, and here's where we see the trend, I think we should think about the conditions for young beginnings. How to make them attractive to try. Make the biggest goal for the students as it is today to get into some big corporation. When you read the results, at least in the media, about what the grad students want, how they imagine their next career, the vast majority want to join big corporations. When I talk to students, I say, I understand. On the other hand, your development there is the most bound by internal and internal regulations. There you just fit like wheels into that big machine, and when you're handy, you sometimes climb up the machine, but objectively speaking, you have less room for some creative approach in applying your own ideas etc. That's what the interpelation was all about, so that we could have the numbers and then we could have a factual debate. I don't have anything else to do with it. If the Minister would agree that we would disagree, let's have it formally, too, that... I do. I'm not gonna say no again today. And any of you, colleagues, will be interested, so I will, of course, give you the numbers so that we can think together about the terms and conditions for business for our businessmen. And there's one more thing about the debate. And I would probably ask the Minister to consult the government on some possible unification in both the database and the nomenclature. This is very difficult to write from opposition benches, because it will certainly be detailed legislative work. And I agree that from those numbers that are a database, like the Minister, that the accountant is the database of the IRS, those who pay the insurance. [[unintelligible]] [[unintelligible]] I'm more concerned that 50 percent of businessmen are actually inactive. I don't know, the Minister is trying sometimes, and it's reasonable, it's not every year, so sometimes he just has to say on the Economic Committee at a point different or on some occasion when the tradesmen are discussing when it's last updated in some way and what's the cause. Looks like 50 percent a lot to me. I would say that naturally it could be 15, 20 percent. Someone interrupts it, etc. So really the most telling is the table with the self-employed, those who pay the insurance. Those are the ones who are actually doing about the ratio of 60 to 40. Maybe another interesting thing, which came to my mind, I didn't mention that until the interview. It would certainly be interesting to also look at the numbers of those who use spending flats in individual groups of spending flats, in the active ones. When we think about the amount of flat-rate spending, whether it is a relief of bureaucracy, or an instrument for tax optimisation, to see a specific legislative environment, how our own businessmen react, how many of them choose one flat-rate and how many of them monitor individual costs and individual revenues. That's what I think is also interesting in the debate on the possible adjustment of the business environment. Thank you and I therefore formally propose to disagree with this reply with the amendment that the Minister has promised, and I thank him for giving me the additional information in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u56	Thank you. We will continue the debate with Mr Martin Jiránek's speech. I'll ask him for a little patience, read the apology received by the Prime Minister of the House. Mrs Karla Šlechtová apologises between 11 and 13 o'clock for work reasons, Minister of Health from 9 to 11 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Lukáš Černohorskýý for work reasons from 14.30 to 18.00 and Mrs Miloslava Rutová from 9.00 to 11.30. Mr Martin Jiránek now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u57	Thank you for the floor. I would like to discuss these figures with the Minister, or with officials from the Ministry, even at the Sub-Committee on Enterprise, because a year ago I actually asked the Ministry for numbers about students, students, even from the point of view of how many people we have to try again to do business and until some time did not do business, because I inspired certain Polish models to support start-up entrepreneurs etc. And it was for me... I didn't interpel, but I tried to communicate all the individual authorities the President spoke of. And actually, he's asking for the data, the real data I wanted, I didn't get the final data. I think that even the question isn't full enough of information when I say it, and it would be good to work out the individual data and numbers, if we want to talk about supporting the very early entrepreneurs, even more in detail, and for that we would need an ideal representative of the individual authorities, because the ideal that somewhere, even as an MP, I will click what I want to know, and it will leave my database, unfortunately, we still do not have it. I kind of inspire the Minister that we would talk about how to talk about the data together and especially in more detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u58	Thank you. If no one's volunteering for a debate... Vice-President of the Government yet. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u59	I'd just like to finish. So, yes, we agree that now we disagree, and with the condition that we put this there. I think it's material. As for the support of the young, we're really gonna activate it today through the heat, used to be called a start-up businessman, today it's a start-up. But basically, it's still the same thing, because it's not just about the technological start-ups, and there I think we're kind of dealing with it. The whole set of measures is really preparing for this. I'd just give a little warning about all the tables in the world that go around that the starting businessman's time is crucial. I don't think it's the most decisive thing. In one day, anyone who wants to start the business on the Internet, and even within one hour. But it's much more important to create facilities and infrastructure for them today so they can share their services somewhere so they don't have to rent offices right away. So these are the habs, the incubators, the accelerators that shouldn't subsidize someone who's starting a business, they also have to help themselves a little bit, but they should create an environment for him to do his major business, not just get a copy machine, etc. He can actually share that somewhere. So that's what I think is a trend that goes on in the world today, and if we get this right - and we really give support to it quite significant, I say again, not financial for those who start, but for those who create those infrastructures, whether it's CzechInvest or whoever else, we are actually creating beautiful habs and incubators throughout the Czech Republic and can get it moving. Maybe that's how they went about it in the United States, and they're really good at it, it works. So that's it for me, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u60	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček. And now the proposal, if I have understood Mr Zbyněk Stanjura correctly, to disagree. We will vote in the vote... The present is, in my opinion... Depending on what you want, I'll check you out again. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And so we will decide in the vote that I will begin when the number of entries is settled. I've still got the gong... I think we're gonna get a good deal. And so we can vote. [[10.40 hours]] So we can vote. I've started voting 162 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 162, 80 for 44. The motion was accepted. We will continue, once again by interpelling Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, this time to Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. It's House Press 616. I will ask the House for peace so that we can continue to discuss this interpelation. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u61	Thank you for the floor. I am calling on - I will now justify this - a rather unconventional procedural proposal, in order to bring together the debate on interpelations, House prints 616, 617 and 618. I'll explain right away. I have turned to three resorts that are undoubtedly carrying out some own policy, the finance department, the transport department and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, with questions that were actually identical. I asked who defines the state's own policy, what are the main points of this ownership policy, who promotes it, and then actually the statistics on all the participating interests, who is leading them, what is the composition of management, any supervisory board or board of directors, what is the working time of these people. I have to say with satisfaction that, especially in the field of statistics, I have been given full information, so I must commend all three ministries. We have at our disposal, and therefore all of you in your press have an overview of all significant state equity, including the personnel composition of management, supervisory board or board of directors or board of directors, depending on which company or ownership. However, the answers differ quite fundamentally in the first three issues that are more important than the list, which means who defines the state's own policy, what its main points are and how it is promoted. In principle, the responses are identical, logical, and promoted by representatives of the state in the management or control bodies. In order not to jump over, I would like to make a procedural proposal to hold a debate on all these three interventions. So far I have no intention of proposing to disagree, rather to clarify it in the debate. All three ministers, respectively. Madam Secretary and two of her colleagues are present, so there's nothing stopping us from making it by 11 o'clock. I'll try to describe the problem. The Department of Transport has written that it has no competence to determine the state's own policy if I simplify it. The Ministry of Industry has written to me that the government determines ownership policy. On the basis of a resolution from 2014, the Ministry of Finance was to produce material, based on which all ministries were to follow. From the Treasury Department, I was told that the material was actually produced, and unfortunately, the government didn't accept it. I don't know the reasons, it was a surprise to me, I didn't know the government didn't accept it, eventually it was new information. But that's not the most important thing. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance has written to me that property policy is governed by internal guidelines of the Ministry, which are undoubtedly not public. I think internal guidelines from the logic of the matter, from the name "internal," are not public. In principle, however, I did not know in either of these answers what the main points of ownership policy were. For example, I am interested - one of the largest state enterprises, or state participation, it is not a state enterprise, it is České dráhy, a. s. tens of billions of turnover, tens of thousands of employees. The Ministry of Transport, all citizens understand and understand that the Ministry of Transport is responsible for the Czech Railways. It is not entirely true according to the composition of the Steering Committee, but logically citizens and I think we also assume that the Ministry of Transport has responsibility for the Czech Railways. At the same time, the Minister wrote to me that he did not determine the state's own policy. And the Treasury material hasn't been accepted. Then the logical question is who determines, for example, the state's own policy with the Czech Railways and what are its main points. And there may be different points. The State may monitor, in particular, economic indicators or, for example, the provision of some public services that are in the interest of the State and its citizens. If you'll allow me, I'd be in favour of having this debate together. I think the key question is who really determines the state's own policy, whether they are really just internal directives - I do not consider that to be happy. I understand when the government didn't approve the complex material that the Ministry had to do something. It wasn't clear at the Department of Transport. I understand from the MIT's answer that they're actually doing it at the Ministry's level. Perhaps, then, Madam Secretary, whether the ambition is to re-submit the material, possibly overworked to be approved by the government, so it will be public and we can also get acquainted with who determines and what are the main points of ownership policy. Until it is determined, it is not worth arguing, as we argued in some other interventions, what the state actually wants in ČEZ, what it wants in the Czech Railways, what it wants in ČEPS. Because we don't really know what the tasks are, it's so hard to say if the tasks are being done well or badly, or if we can't discuss the content of the ownership policy, whether it's really meant to be focused solely on the production of profits, or if there are other tasks, which I understand is that sometimes there will be other tasks. Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I am making a procedural proposal for us to merge the debate on three Houses of Press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-001-317.u62	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura has proposed to merge the debate on three interventions. According to Article 54 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8 of the Act on Rules of Procedure and § 63 para. 1 and 6 is a proposition that is possible and we have to vote it out. If we accept this, I will interrupt one interpelation at a time and then we will start a merged debate. So that's the process. I hope that no one objects to the President's procedure and we can decide that. We will decide in the 163 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 163, from the present 92 for 79, against no one. The motion was accepted. That is why I am interrupting press discussions 616, interpelation of Zbyněk Stanjura, and I am initiating the discussion of the House press 617, the interpelation of Zbyněk Stanjura, this time at the Minister of Transport, and I am also interrupting and initiating the interpelation of Zbyněk Stanjura according to the House press 618 to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček, and I am interrupting and initiating a merged debate on these three interventions.
