ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-013-129.u1	129. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the Czech Republic's approach Protocol on the elimination of illicit trafficking in tobacco products of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (the 215/ House Print) - first reading The proposal submitted will be presented by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary. Now we're ready. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-013-129.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm so sorry. I came from the atrium. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber of Deputies is tabled a proposal for the accession of the Czech Republic to the Protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products by the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control of the World Health Organisation. This Protocol has been signed by 54 parties to that Framework Convention, including the European Union, and currently ratified by 48 countries. Therefore, the condition for the entry into force of the Protocol, which took place on 25 September 2018, has already been fulfilled. For the Czech Republic, the Protocol will enter into force on the 90th day following the date of deposit of its instrument of ratification. In October 2018, the first convening meeting of the Parties to the Protocol was held. As is already apparent from the name itself, the aim of the Protocol is to combat illicit trafficking in tobacco products. The most important benefits of the Protocol are the introduction of a comprehensive system of control of the supply chain with tobacco products and tobacco, including its cultivation and equipment used for the manufacture of tobacco products. An important part of this system is the introduction of a global monitoring regime to be established within five years of the entry into force of the Protocol. This scheme will allow the movement of tobacco products to be monitored from the moment they are manufactured after their sale to the final consumer. The system will contribute significantly to minimizing illicit practices with tobacco products. Manufacturers and traders of tobacco and tobacco products will be obliged to keep records and cooperate with the authorities controlling such goods, which will reduce the possibility of smuggling tobacco products and facilitate investigations into any related offences. Accession to the Protocol will have a positive impact in terms of greater transparency and control of the entire journey of tobacco products from the manufacturer through retail outlets to the consumer himself and, consequently, a greater possibility of combating illicit trade in such products. Furthermore, the positive impact of increasing revenue to the state budget can be expected, in the context of the assumption that more cases of breaches of customs and tax regulations are detected and the resulting elimination of circumvention of the proper payment of excise duties and duties. The Protocol is an initiative of the European Union which, in the context of the World Health Organisation's negotiations, proposed its development and was the main actor in its preparation. The European Union ratified the Protocol in June 2016. Member States are already de facto bound by this ratification to implement most of the provisions of the Protocol. To this end, the European Union has adopted an implementing directive bringing the legislation of the Member States closer together. Moreover, through access to the Protocol, the Czech Republic will take over commitments that will not be implemented through European Union legislation. However, existing national legislation already provides sufficient support for the implementation of new commitments. For the above reasons, I would like to ask you politely to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-013-129.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the first reading is Mr Pavel Plzák. I ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-013-129.u4	Dear colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, members of the government, thank you for your word. I thank the Minister for the detailed presentation of the proposal. I'd only try a brief summary. This protocol, presented to us by the Minister, is linked to a basic treaty called the World Health Organisation rámcový Treaty on Tobacco Control. It is valid for 181 states and has been valid in the Czech Republic since 2012. Its basic objective is to address the protection against all the consequences of tobacco consumption. The settlement of obligations under this Treaty is delegated to individual ministries and the Convention also allows for the adoption of additional protocols. At the Conference of the Parties in 2012, this Protocol, called the Protocol on the Elimination of Illegal Tobacco Trade, was adopted and became the voice of the Czech Republic. This is where I listened to the secretary, she's probably got more current information. I felt from the material that only 35 countries had ratified it and that it was not yet valid because it was supposed to be 40 countries, but I think you said 48 or 54. Well, I guess that's the actual data. I'm sorry. The Protocol is intended to oblige States to combat all forms of illicit trafficking in tobacco and tobacco products and to establish a system of control of the cultivation and manufacture of tobacco and tobacco products and their global monitoring, including a contact point for sharing information with the Secretariat of the Convention. All of this is to be possible only on the basis of the permission of the state authorities. And the Contracting Party, as the Minister said, is the European Union, but Member States can decide whether or not to accede to the Protocol. Each part of the Protocol roughly describes the bases and objectives and defines the different concepts, specifies the general obligations of the Contracting Parties, concerns the control of the supply chain, and requires the Contracting Parties to grant licences or authorisation and the introduction of a global monitoring system. It asks the State to introduce measures against money laundering, to define what action will be considered illegal, and to require manufacturers and traders to keep records of the movement of tobacco products. [[12.10 hours]] Accession to the Protocol will not have an impact on the state budget and will not require changes in legislation or in the Customs authorities and through accession to the Protocol one of the tasks listed in the Action Plan on Tobacco Control in the Czech Republic for the period 2015-2018 will be fulfilled. The government has already agreed, as has already been said, and ratification by the President is possible after the approval of both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-013-129.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Nobody's logged in, I'm done with the debate. There is no interest in the final words, so we will consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed a proposal for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the assignment to the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 228 170 Members registered, for 142, against 1. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. I thank the Minister, the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. From today's meeting, Mr Marek Výborný apologizes from 11.30 to 13.00 for reasons of work. We will now consider the government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic will present itself to express its consent to ratification. Protocol on sustainable agriculture and rural development to the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians. This is the House Press 216, we are at first reading. The proposal submitted should be made by the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. This proposal is not covered by the general mandate of the Minister of Culture Staněk, so we cannot deal with this proposal and I am interrupting its discussion. Opening point
