ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u1	4. The draft law amending Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies and on the amendment of certain laws (Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies) and Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German press 38/9/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 38/10. At the same time, this proposal was served on the House document 2342, which contains the Senate resolution number 112 of the 6th meeting on 27 February 2019. I welcome Senator Tomáš Golán among us and I ask that Mr Stanislav Grospič, or another of the plaintiffs, comment on the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Our esteemed colleagues, the Dear Government, are ahead of us to decide on the fate of another amendment to the bill amending Act No.428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies and amending certain laws /Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies/ and Act No.586/1992 Coll., on income taxes, as amended, which the Senate discussed and rejected after the third reading. It is therefore up to the Chamber of Deputies to take a final decision. In this context, I would like to remind you that this proposal does not take place, just as it has been said here many times, from our side, to the taxation of the assets issued, that is, which was issued on the basis of the restitutional part of the property settlement law with the churches and religious companies, but it affects a part of the extensive subsidiary performance, which is merely financial compensation under Section 15 of the Act cited, but no longer a contribution to support the activities of the churches and religious societies concerned under Section 17 of the Act cited. I will no longer deal with the historical excursion on this issue, many of which have been said here, both when discussing the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies themselves, and when discussing this proposed bill. However, I cannot mention again the way in which property was valued, which cannot be issued under the property settlement law with churches and religious societies, and is therefore granted financial compensation for it. Many studies by the professional public, historical facts, as well as documents available to Prime Minister Nečas at the time show that the assets for which the financial compensation is provided have never been specified in a credible way. Thus, it was never and even today it is not clear for which property the financial compensation is provided and whether this property really fell into a decisive period and was the property of churches and religious societies. As far as the scope and valuation of church property are concerned, from the point of view of the property settlement law with churches and religious societies, I consider it very important how the then government, as the proposer, identified this scope, or how it came to numbers of its total value and whether it justified everything by rational and reasonable exact arguments and evidence. The legislators never knew that, and they never will, just like the public. This was a very important step, the importance of which is highlighted by the fact that the designated scope of the assets served directly to the estimates of the assets and subsequently to determine the flat-rate financial compensation. The document of the Ministry of Culture dealing with and addressing the valuation of the original church property shows that the valuation of the original church property was made on the basis of data from 2007. Data on the expected market value of such assets are also to come from this year. Here I would like to quote the resolution of the temporary commission of the Chamber of Deputies on the solution of property issues between the state, churches and religious societies adopted on 22 July 2008. [[19.10 hours]] I quote: The Temporary Committee on the settlement of property issues between the state, churches and religious societies agrees that it is to be issued and replaced by what they owned or were to own on 25 February 1948. This fact suggests that, in determining the extent of the assets, there has been a breach of the threshold laid down by law, and it can therefore be summarised that the rationality and the real objectivity of the data on the basis of which the total scope of the church property was determined, which subsequently served to determine the financial compensation, cannot be discussed in this context. At the same time, in this context, I would just briefly mention the position of the Constitutional Court on the appreciation of the original church property, which is not being issued. On the basis of his observations in paragraphs 255 and 256 of the finding of the file mark PL ÚS 10/13, it cannot be concluded that the Constitutional Court completely resigned from the assessment of this problem in terms of constitutionality, which is evidenced by the different opinions they took on the decision of the plenary of the Constitutional Court Judge Jaroslav Fenyk, Vojen Güttler, Jan Musil and Pavel Rychetský. The financial compensation itself is devoted to Title III of the Act on property settlement with churches and religious companies called Financial settlement between the State and the churches and religious companies, in particular the provisions of Section 15. This provision is based, by its dictum, on political rather than legal assessment, and in this context I cannot mention the contradiction between the commentary on the law on property settlement with churches, religious societies from authors, for example. Jakub Kříž and Václav Valeš and the explanatory note to the quoted law. According to the comment from which I quote, the legal relationship between the value of the assets, the form of physical restitution and the financial compensation paid does not exist. Similarly, there is no legal relationship between the specific items that are issued under the natural restitution regime and the financial compensation itself. End of quote. I'm not saying this here by accident. Here we have no choice but to ask ourselves how there can be a relationship between things that are not issued and the financial compensation itself, when estimated on the same basis, whereby the total amount of the financial compensation according to the explanatory memorandum to the property settlement law with churches and religious companies was created by deduction of the amount representing the estimate of the value of the assets that can be issued from the total value of the assets. The answer is simple. In fact, if there is no legal relationship, there is only one conclusion that, in the case of a financial compensation, this is a dissimulated, disguised legal act. As another serious problem, a conflict of financial compensation paid with European Union law is possible, namely: 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, i.e. the prohibition of the so-called State aid. This view is led to me by the way in which the then government, as the proponent of the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies, dealt with this problem. The explanatory memorandum states in general only that the legislative regulation of the position of churches and religious societies does not fall within the competence of the European Union but falls within the competence of a Member State. She has resigned entirely here to discuss this issue with the European Commission and does not give any reason why it could not possibly be illegal State aid. In the same way, the Constitutional Court resigned from examining this question in its already cited decision, even if he did not attempt to raise a preliminary question to the Court of Justice of the European Union pursuant to Art. 267 TFEU, although it could clearly do so. It is clear that churches as legal persons can be an undertaking within the meaning of European Union law and a consistent definition of the case law of the EU Court of Justice. It states that aid is then a decision by a Member State to which it grants funds to persons or undertakings by a unilateral and autonomous decision, or provides them with benefits in order to promote the economic objectives achieved. The typical State aid in line with the stable case-law of the EU Court of Justice is further characterised by the fact that the aid is public resources and the measure is imputable to the State or other public law corporation and the aid confers a selective advantage on a particular undertaking or sector. It is essential to consider that the concept of State aid can only be fulfilled by the simultaneous fulfilment of all its characteristics. Thus, at the same time, the condition of an advantage to an undertaking caused by an intervention or measure by a State through public means, the condition of distortion of competition and the condition of affecting trade between Member States must be met. All these signs of State aid were fulfilled by the exemption of financial compensation from the taxation of churches and religious companies. The question of possible unauthorized State aid therefore remains open and can also cause considerable problems in the future. In any event, it cannot be excluded that the financial compensation could be assessed by the European Commission as unlawful State aid to a private entity. The Senate rejected the bill because it considers it unconstitutional not only because of the breach of legitimate expectations of the church and religious societies, but also because of the breach of concluded contracts between the State and individual religious societies. I do not agree with this view, and I have already said so in the Senate. By proposing taxation of financial compensation, there can be no breach of legitimate expectations. If that were the case, a breach of the legitimate expectations of other citizens who had expected a fair and legitimate settlement with churches and religious societies would also have to be admitted. It would also have to be admitted that the remission of taxes on financial compensation distorted their right as taxpayers, who legitimately expect the use of State funds obtained from taxes for the benefit of the entire company and not preferred to a particular group, as established by the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies. In his decision, the Senate also argued by breaching contracts. I don't even share that opinion. Settlement contracts shall be designed as a financial settlement instrument. This is a unique solution within the Czech legal system. We will not find any similar solution in the legal order, which would be fully incorporated into the law and at the same time become the subject of a bilateral agreement. The whole concept thus serves in my opinion only to build another obstacle to the possible future re-evaluation of the property settlement. However, this cannot prevent the sovereign law of the State from taking measures in the tax field. If this were to be otherwise, there would be an inequality before the law under discussion, which the bill in question, on the contrary, removes, because the non-taxation of financial compensation has no basis. I will no longer deal with the very evaluation of the unit of square meters of agricultural and forest land. Much has also been said about the subject here. Finally, I would like to quote from the dissenting opinion of Pavel Rychetský on the finding of the Constitutional Court by the PL ÚS 10/13, in which he said, among other things: I do not question the right of the legislature to decide sovereignly the extent of the property injustices caused in the past, and even the adoption of a law that would mitigate property injustices caused by churches and religious societies in the previous regime. Nevertheless, I consider that even such a decision must respect, at least to an elementary extent, the principles of equal access to individual groups of entitled entities and other applicable legal standards. End of quote. In my opinion and in the Court of Justice, the rate of application of an unequal approach must not exceed the reasonable level in terms of proportionality and proportionality. This has become a flat-rate measure when establishing financial compensation. This was also done by the remission of taxes by church entities in the context of property compensation. I therefore ask you whether the Chamber of Deputies would insist on its original opinion and support its original version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u3	Thank you. President Pavel Bělobrádek is registered with priority rights. Then, of course, Senator Tomáš Goláň will take the floor for the plaintiff. You'd prefer. So I'll ask Senator Tomáš Golán. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good evening. I won't hold up long speeches like in the Senate because it's already late and I'm tired of waiting for four hours, too, so I'd tell you that we've summarized the legislative process in writing, which was actually given to the Chamber of Deputies by the Senate. What is decisive - the Senate vote took place in such a way that out of 73 registered senators were 64 against this proposal. Consider that this is a much larger part than the constitutional majority in the Senate, which accounts for 49 votes. [[There's noise and restlessness in the hall!]] [[19.20 hours]] What led the Senate to reject this bill in such a fundamental way? There are several plains. The first plane, of course, is technical. We do not agree with what the appellant has said here that it has been shown in some way that the compensation has been disproportionate. We didn't get any evidence to say that exactly so many and so many meters of land were valued at such a price, and out of nothing, the inadequacy doesn't actually result. When we look at the Constitutional Court's decision, it also says that it has a significant and pragmatic level of scope. A conclusion in the explanatory memorandum, where it is said: the bill envisages taxation of the financial compensation as the only possible step to ensure that the financial compensation is ultimately proportionate. For example, as a tax advisor, I don't understand why the proportionality of the 19 percent is going to create some proportionality for me. First of all, no one told me what the replacement was disproportionate about, what it was increased by. And secondly, no one told me how the final situation would be fair if we tax it 19 percent, and why the 19 percent is the correction of proportionality. That's the plane of things. Of course, the Senate and the Constitutional Committee, to which I am a member, examined the legislative plane most. Of course, the legislative plane shows us that the principle of legitimate expectations was violated, that it was affected by private relations that occurred in a bilateral act, and those were contracts. According to Section 16 of the Law, contracts were concluded and were indeed a bilateral act. And suddenly, by a unilateral act, the state interferes with something that has already been legally set up once. This is what we think is completely unacceptable from the point of view of the rule of law, and it is something that would be a very bad precedent in the future. Another is, of course, a political plane, because when we look at the government's position on this law, it sounds like the government is assuming that this law will be challenged by the Constitutional Court, but, despite all this, it agrees with the bill's proposal. I see a great danger here. We're really messing with fire. Imagine the trust in constitutional factors, in constitutional bodies and in the courts from the point of view of our citizens, and the whole government's position is: we will therefore approve you because we know that the Constitutional Court will cancel this one day. I think it's very, very dangerous. Because what will it look like in the public eye? Yes, it is already known that if the House's law were to approve again, there is a group of senators in which I am, and will initiate an assault on the Constitutional Court. However, the Constitutional Court is very likely to abolish this once it has spoken of it. They must keep the continuity of their decision-making. So why are we creating some kind of legal standard here that we're essentially assuming will be abolished by the Constitutional Court? That is what I think is a rather unpleasant situation and an unpleasant message to the public and to people who should believe in the laws and the legislature. Finally, on a political level, I have to mention the moral level, because it all looks like someone who originally caused the situation that was corrected by law, the same entity, that is, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, wants to take back at least part of the property that she had already taken away once again. If we think about what the replacement is, there are three kinds of substitutes. The first replacement is natural, which means property can actually be released. Property is 75 billion, which is 56 percent of the total compensation. One that cannot be issued, which is stopped in some kind of use of entities, is in military retreats and so on, it is necessary for the operation of transport, is 59 billion. and it's 44 percent. I don't even see any inadequacy there, because 56 percent was issued in kind, 44 percent, which means 59 billion, is paid in financial compensation. And if we take the parallel that someone would take away our property today, the senators and the MPs, and this property was somehow damaged, that means that it would not be possible to issue a physical issue, this situation can normally occur with a stolen car, which no one can return to us, because someone has already endured it, so we receive a financial compensation for it. And I can't imagine any of us and any of you voting for the fact that the financial compensation for his returned property would be taxed by ordinary taxes, as it is done in this law. For all these reasons really The Senate rejected this bill in a fundamental way. And I ask you to vote in the same way and reject the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u5	Thank you. President Pavel Bělobrádek. I will read an apology: Mr Dominik Feri apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, honourable members of the government, I believe that in this situation, we are actually deciding on things that are not just common, but which are principled and which talk about the character of the state, how to actually become a face. I believe that in many ways we are far from the rule of law, as we imagine it. But by this decision, we will essentially deny the rule of law. I'm actually convinced of that. And I am also convinced that those who will vote in favour of this often claim the Christian legacy or the Jewish-Christian tradition of our civilization, our culture, our roots, will most punish the Federation of Jewish Communities, because they will take the most from them, and then they will touch the money of other churches and religious societies. If I quote, "You don't join most if you commit indecency." And I would like to appeal this way: do not join the majority if it is shameful, because it is undoubtedly shameful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u7	Thank you. Do other rapporteurs from the committees want to comment on the Senate resolution? Budget Committee - Mr Milan Feranec? He doesn't want to express himself. And Mr. Marek Benda, the rapporteur of the constitutional committee? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u8	Mr Vice-President, Mr Prestable, ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly take the floor more properly, but at this point I just have to say that I would like to thank the senators for maintaining their common sense and for returning this bill to us. The debate that has been running here for many, many days and weeks - I think that the degree of conflict with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, injustice, the fact that it is really just some kind of payment within the framework of governance, is quite obvious and I am quite happy for the Senate as a whole that it can say at such moments, regardless of its political priorities: some things must not take place in the country, some things are contrary to the constitutional order, you cannot return something to anyone and at the same time tax it. So I'd like to thank the senators for returning the bill to us and for having to deal with it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u9	Thank you. At this point, I am opening up a debate in which I have five Members of Parliament and Members. The first is Mr Marek Výborný, Mr Grebeníček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to join the words of my colleague...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u11	I would ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace so that we can create conditions for those who perform so that they can tell us what they need... I'd wait... On the left hand side... Mr. Ambassador, you may proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u12	Thank you. I would like to join in the words of my colleague Marek Benda, and I would like to express my respect and thanks to the Senate. Because when I read the accompanying resolution where I - quote - 'the Senate considers the approval of such bills incompatible with the creation of democratic rule of law and with due care for the preservation of the rule of law', I was a little ashamed of what kind of chamber I am, because unfortunately it is our business card, that is the card of Members here in the Chamber of Deputies. [[19.30 hours]] I am glad that the Senate, in this sense, completely majority, cross-cutting across the clubs, when you look at the vote, understood that there is a denial of the principles of the rule of law. And although we have repeatedly pointed out this in the course of all three readings here at the Chamber of Deputies, unfortunately, most Members have decided not to follow the substance of the matter, but have submitted to the vote, which was a trade, a clear trade with the support of the government, the state budget, etc. But let me now comment on what has repeatedly been said here. And when Mr Grospič, as the promoter, again said it very closely in his opening speech today, when I see that there is an enrolled colleague Mašek on the board, who has repeatedly devoted himself to the topic of how and how badly the financial compensations were awarded, let me comment in detail on this subject, so that we all know how the appreciation of the original church property took place. The appreciation of the original church property was carried out in 2007 on the basis of the evidence at the time. Here, I think we are in agreement with what has been said. It was based on the market price of property that was close to its real value and represented the present or then value of property that had been unlawfully removed from the churches in the past and which consequently could not be treated and benefited from it. The original church property is characterized by the fact that its distribution across the territory of the Czech Republic is practically uniform. For this reason, the average price of agricultural land for the whole Czech Republic was established at CZK 44,48 per square metre, I note in the 2007 prices. Studies of the Research Institute of the Agricultural Economy and an overview of the prices of construction land in the regions of the Czech Republic from June 2007 by engineer Václav Dolanský from the Department of Management and Marketing of the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering of the Czech Technical University in Prague were used in the calculation. According to a study by the Agricultural Economic Research Institute, the market prices of agricultural land ranged from CZK 5 to 500 per square metre in a very wide range depending on the area of the land, its expected future use and location. A significantly lower price is observed for land over 10 hectares outside the housing and its surroundings in rural areas. The highest market prices then reach the land around Prague with an area of up to 0.1 hectare. A high market value was also found in Brno. Agricultural land means land which was agricultural land in 1948. However, there have been major changes since 1948. Part of the then agricultural land is now in the intravilions of large cities, such as Prague or Brno, where its price is much higher than the price of agricultural land in rural areas. For this reason, the resulting average price of agricultural land is higher than the normally quoted market prices of rural agricultural land, where this land is most sold. Now, let me just say one more word about the calculation. The Ministry of Culture first carried out the verification of the calculation. According to a study by the Research Institute of the Agricultural Economy, the average value of negotiated prices in sales made between 1993 and 2003 is CZK 37.72 per square metre. The extrapolation of these average prices by the linear regression method in 2008 led to an estimate of the average price of agricultural land of CZK 54.58 per square metre. This price was higher than the price used - I repeat - CZK 44,48. In 2008, the House Commission commissioned an examination of Ernst and Young's calculation and checked selected items in individual regions and found that the calculation used was justified and rational. Prices used to calculate the value of the original church property are often compared with those used for restitution purposes under the Land Act. Such a comparison is wrong, however, as the law on soil works with a different concept. Land Act No. 229/1991 Coll. In principle, it prefers compensation in kind, financial compensation was a marginal issue. Only 10 per cent of the original property could not be issued and out of these 10 per cent only 7 per cent received financial compensation. The financial compensation was thus granted for a relatively small amount of assets and was determined separately for each item. In the absence of market prices for agricultural land in 1991, prices were set administratively, according to the price regulation in force at the time of the adoption of the Law on land. It was then the decree of the Ministry of Finance No. 182/1988 Coll. as amended by Decree No 316/1990 Coll. The property compensation law provides for a flat-rate financial compensation, i.e. it was not realistic to value all the items separately. At around 110 000 items, this would represent significant financial and time costs. Therefore, the determination of the financial compensation was based on the observed average market prices currently in existence, as opposed to 1991, or at that time in 2008. The price of forest land including crops was determined on the basis of the Report on the state of the forest and forestry of the Czech Republic, issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. If the valuation of historical church property was determined according to the Ministry of Finance decree, as I quoted it, the financial compensation could be challenged by the Constitutional Court. Such compensation would clearly not meet the proportionality criterion and would result in the favour of the legislator, which would set the price level retroactively by 21 years. It would be possible to talk about a new injustice on the part of churches and religious societies in the sense of the then known case law of the Constitutional Court. Unlike the Law on Land, the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies requires the issue of property only by the State. According to the Land Act, municipalities and all legal persons were also issued. No compensation shall be granted for the depreciation of property or for the living and dead inventory, which has also been provided under the Land Act. Last but not least, for 20 years, for almost 30 years, natural persons have been able to draw proceeds from property issued to them under the Land Act. And only the profits from the former church forests for 20 years were in the order of billions of Czech crowns. And these gains, which, of course, flowed to the state, were not demanded by any of the churches and religious societies. So these are basic information that you can eventually find on the Ministry of Culture's website and which clearly proves that sometimes the magic with different numbers, the magic with the border on February 25, 1948, which has not been broken, we have also repeatedly wondered here when the law was passed in 1947, but its effectiveness occurred only after February 25, 1948, that none of this happened. So much for what Mr Grospič said as the petitioner, and what might still be said here, so that it is clear and clear how those compensations were quantified. We must realise that this was, of course, and that was never denied here either, by a political agreement, because it was not possible to make an accurate determination, because the property was often destroyed by the former communist regime, plundered or simply did not exist anymore and there was nothing to appreciate. Let me now return to this press in general and to the effort that the government movement here is trying to tax something that has been approved and for which contracts have also been concluded. [[19.40 hours]] If the Communists speak to the church restitutions, then allow me to compare this to the situation as if the Nazis were to speak to the victims of the Holocaust in compensation. I think it's not far from a completely relevant comparison, the analogy here really is. Church restitution has accompanied us for practically 30 years since the fall of the Communist regime. The Communists, who caused this problem at the turn of the 1940s and 1950s, have now again provoked legislation aimed at taxing compensation, which the state is legally obliged to pay to the churches for unissued property. I must also remind you that in the 1990s it was the current President Miloš Zeman, who offered the then Prague Archbishop Cardinal Miloslav Vlka the establishment of a parliamentary committee that would have dealt with the problem here in the long run. During the discussion on the composition of this commission, then Minister of Culture Pavel Dostál brought a list of when representatives of the Communist Party should have been on that committee. This logically was rejected by other church members who were invited, claiming that it was similar as if the Nazis were to decide to compensate the victims of the Holocaust. In the course of the new endless negotiations, two, one minister and another church were finally set up. They were a front for the intention of the Ministry of Culture to control the freedom of churches by law and to approve the establishment of certain institutions which, according to the Constitution, the churches had the freedom to establish themselves and to grant them legal personality. That was against the Constitution. The House, however, voted for such a law, the Senate rejected it, the House overruled it, and the President signed it. Some senators lodged a complaint with the Constitutional Court at the time about the unconstitution of certain provisions of the law. The Constitutional Court actually cut four unconstitutional posts in the law and gave a thorough, competent explanation of religious freedom. The Law could then remain in force within the meaning of the Constitutional Court's decision. When the Communist Members initiated a complaint with the Constitutional Court in 2013 and requested that the restitution act No. 428/2012 Coll., so the court rejected these complaints and responded with a clear statement. Yet some politicians still call church restitution a great gift to the state. And I would like to compare these statements with an excerpt from the Constitutional Court's press release of 3 June 2013, which followed this already mentioned finding by me. I quote: The Constitutional Court subsequently approached the assessment of the plaintiffs' general and historical objections, namely that the property regime of the churches precludes the restoration of their ownership, since the churches were not and could not have been the owners of the original property in the past, or their ownership was subject to public law. On the contrary, the Constitutional Court concluded by very detailed analysis of the texts of the period doctrine and the caselaw that the appellants' considerations were odd and that the church bodies had essentially full ownership and were subject to ownership rights on individual matters falling within the church property. In a similar analysis, the Constitutional Court concluded that the church property was not the subject of so-called. public property, as some appellants claimed, or that this property was excluded from the regulation of ownership under the General Civil Code and entrusted to church entities exclusively on the basis of a public title. The Constitutional Court, on the contrary, from the doctrine and case-law of the court adopted after 1948, e.g. The Opinion of the General Prosecutor of 20 May 1954, concluded that, also during this period, the church property was not of a public nature and was, on the contrary, regarded as private property. In contrast to socialist ownership. Not for state property. The Constitutional Court also pointed out that, as a private property, the caselaw of the Court after 1989, including the decision-making practice of the Constitutional Court itself, also treated the property of the churches. End of quote from the press release. Here's the question, does it remind us of anything? Today, the script is repeated under the baton of the Communist Party. The only new thing is that today, the KSČM is holding, so to speak, the government of the YES movement under its neck. Thus, there is nothing new in trying to tax compensation for unissued property. And, by the way, the Constitutional Court has already said this in the past in its 2013 press release - I quote again: As regards the amount of individual compensations which, according to the appellants, do not correspond to the scope of the original and unissued assets, the Constitutional Court stressed that the subject matter of the proceedings cannot be the factual evidence of the parties to the precise terms and their valuation, since they do not have a link to the constitutionality of the contested law. In the light of the foregoing, it is clear that the measure of the original property on which the explanatory memorandum was based and the previous negotiations between the State and the churches should be a measure of rationality, respectively. constitutionality, not showing signs of favour or error by the legislator, but having a reasonable and reasonable link to the historical data available. The Constitutional Court did not find unconstitutional either in the legislation of the treaties between the State and the churches concerned. So here, let me remind you of two fundamental things. On the one hand, the Constitutional Court already stated in 2013 that the concluded agreements between the State and religious societies and churches were in line with the constitutional order, while at the same time that the debate that has been going on here for a long time about whether or not the calculation of compensation was overpriced so the Constitutional Court found that it was not and that it is based on rationality and does not show signs of lib behind or error of the legislature. In addition, allow me a brief quote from the Constitutional Court's decision rejecting the proposals to abolish this restitution law: The amount of the financial compensation, as already explained above, does not stand or need to stand on a purely economic and mathematical basis. This would also be difficult to achieve because it should include, for example, compensation for the use of state-owned real estate, for a period from their withdrawal, or at least during the period of non-constitutional inactivity of the legislator. - That's what I said, we'd have to talk about what the proceeds of the property were, from the woods, from the land, from the real estate, where there's no talk of compensation at all. The right to private property and its protection is still guaranteed by our Constitution. I hope we can all confirm that. In addition, it can be noted that legislators certainly do not have the freedom to suggest what they want, but they should not do so by trampling the law. Otherwise, they use the same practice as the totalitarian communist regime in the 1950s. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we can all consider the arguments that have been made here. What was finally said on the Senate floor in a situation where not only the principles of the rule of law are being trampled, when contracts have been concluded here and those contracts are being unilaterally amended at the moment. And I remind you that not only is the thief here screaming tax what we stole!, but in the case of the Federation of Jewish Communities, the theft actually happens twice. First, the Nazis collected the property during World War II, then the Communists, and the third time, the government will tax it, along with the KSČM, ČSSD and SPD. I believe that after the debate and the debate that will continue, we will actually have a sensible and wise vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u13	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Grebeníček and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that on 27 February this year, the Senate rejected the KSČM's proposal for taxation of financial compensation to churches. According to most senators, it's a shameless or even unconstitutional novel. And so they returned it to the House for a new discussion, and they did not forgive themselves with right-wing politicians so much popularity in calling up alleged communist haunts. Their discussion lacked factuality, was full of awkwardness, invectives and compilation of half-truths and purposeful lies. Everything was then transferred to the ideological plane, as if the taxation of church compensation was just a matter of communists. [[19.50 hours]] Indeed, according to the Communists, the bill on taxation of financial compensation to churches is fair, because it is not possible for churches, unlike others, to be exempt from tax. All revenue is to be taxed. The compensation provided by the insurance company is also taxed because it is income, declared publicly by the Chairman of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia Vojtěch Filip. The Archbishop of Prague and primas Czech Dominik Duka, however, began to talk about the salami method, which is said to be applied by the KSČM. He even publicly asked: " Do these steps of yours bear any sign of a violation of the law on the crime of communism? ' Resolutely, he added: Remember that repentance cleanses, that repentance is a step ahead of forgiveness and also a step ahead of moral life. No. I don't take anybody's faith. I honor and respect the rights of honest believers. Nor do I deny anyone the right to believe that religion is a foolish superstition. And I also took note of what Religionist Ivan Odilo Štampach publicly said on March 6 this year: Duka has his optics of the church boss, who will not admit that something bad could happen in the church. In connection with the church and Cardinal Duka Štampach even used the term "powerful deviance." Many speak of the church's strongest moral authority in the late 1980's as Cardinal František Tomášek. After Cardinal Tomášek's departure, she apparently lost that moral authority. It also contributed to the almost mafia story of the operational building of the National Theatre, which according to the enumeration law of 1990 was supposedly accidentally acquired in the first restitution wave by Roman Union sisters of the Order of svatý Voršila in Prague, and in three years it was sold secretly and suspiciously for tens of millions. That story has been employed by our courts for 26 years. It was a restaurant building with the number 1435, which was built in 1983 for Restaurants and Dining Rooms Prague 1. In the building there was an establishment of restaurant and cafe for the public and extensive facilities. According to the declaration by the People's Minister of Culture Daniel Herman of 23 September 2014, it could not be said whether the dispute was appropriate and whether it would harm the order of the Voršileks. I really couldn't say. After all, the clever rafts of the National Theatre's operating building in the first restitution wave received apparent fraud. Then they sold it and then demanded it returned. It is also shocking that representatives of the first Czech scene in May 2016 had to salt CZK 290 million for it. And neither did People's Minister Daniel Herman. Many also explain the words of the patriarch of the Church of the Czechoslovak Hussite Tomáš Butta, who admitted on 7 January 2008 that the finding of the ratio of property compensation to individual churches was very complicated, because church properties were not always confiscated by the state. He stated that some buildings or monuments had voluntarily surrendered or donated them because they had no means of maintaining them. It is no secret that after 1989 the Roman Catholic Church, in particular, was pejorative in all the falls of the surnames of many former communist officials. She even claimed that if it wasn't for February 25th, 1948, we wouldn't have to deal with so-called church restitution from time to time. However, not a word about what the so-called second land reform took away from them. This was also consecrated by the then People's Party, headed by Roman Catholic priest Mons. Jan Šrámek. And it's hard to pass him off as a communist. Mons. In addition, Šrámek held the position of Deputy Prime Minister from 1945 to 1948, in whose programming declaration of 8 July 1946 says: As far as land matters are concerned, the government considers it necessary to close the confiscation of the land of traitors and collaborators promptly. Secondly, there will be a need to revise all cases where, in the first land reform, the land was released from the farm, although it belonged to the fund under the law. Third, the government intends to do so - including Mons. Šrámek and his two folk colleagues, ministers František Hála and Adolf Procházka - also went to the revision of the allocation procedure for so-called residual farms. The government intends, on the one hand, to allocate such agricultural land to small farmers from farmers, peasants, cottages and landless, and to maintain it in whole buildings as a model research, cultivation and breeding station in public administration. It is also worth mentioning the position of Czech doctor Josef Plojhar, who was imprisoned during the fascist occupation in the concentration camps Buchenwald and Dachau. Since 1948 he has been Minister of Health in the so-called Communist Government for many years and since 1951 he has been Chairman of the Czechoslovak People's Party as well as Chairman of the National Peace Committee of the Catholic clergy. It is then worth mentioning -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u15	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. After all. We have four minutes to go, and I would like all the Members to see if they can hold on for a while, and then they can share all their experiences with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u16	His words spoken at the 13th Congress of the KSČ in 1966 are worth mentioning: We, members of the Czechoslovak People's Party, organizing honest, Christian-minded citizens of our country, have applied out of our own conviction to deliberate cooperation in the National Front led by the KSČ. We do so in a firm belief that the policy of our National Front, inspired by the spirit of socialist humanism, scientifically based service to man and the versatile development of his ability, also corresponds fully to Christian ideas about the harmonious arrangement of human relationships, but creates real and concrete conditions for a truly free and dignified life of man. Josef Plojhar added: Last but not least, we believe that this open, fruitful and successful cooperation with communists in a socialist state can also be an example for Christians in countries with another social establishment to fulfill the highness of a responsible and morally binding historical mission - to fight in unity with the most progressive forces to avert a new, devastating war, to defend the peace and happiness of all mankind. [[20.00 hours]] However, this is what former Prime Minister Petr Nečas said when he signed on behalf of the government on 22 February 2013 with 16 churches and religious communities unilaterally unwitting contracts that supposedly guarantee the churches the payment of financial compensation plus inflation, but at all, did not mention. However, with respect and respect, many citizens at that time looked to the Brotherhood of Baptists whose representatives refused to sign the treaty. Reason? Like Prime Minister Andrej Babiš today, they thought the financial compensation was excessive. The chairman of the Executive Committee of the Brotherly Unity of Baptists Milan Kern justified their decision as follows: We have been operating here for more than 120 years and for most of that time we have been working through self-financing, not by subsidizing the state. The second reason is that we had a problem with the fact that in the property settlement law it is written that it should serve to make churches a property base -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u17	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. It's 8:00. You can finish your speech after we open this item at some next meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u18	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-12-ps2017-027-05-004-004.u19	So I'm done with today's meeting day. We'll start tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. with the Foreign Office Act at third reading. Have a good evening.
