ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 320/2001 Coll., on Financial Control in the Public Administration and on Amendment of Certain Acts (the Financial Control Act), as amended (the House Press 261/4/ - returned by the Senate) In this case, the Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as the House Press 261/5. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Vladislav Vilímec among us. I ask that Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová comment on the resolution of the Senate and on the amendments tabled. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the amendment to the Act amending Act 320/200 Coll., on financial control in the public administration and on the amendment of certain laws. With your permission, I will only use the abbreviation of the Financial Control Act. To begin with, I would like to remind myself that the bill was submitted because of the fulfilment of the legislative obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union. The subject matter of the bill is the transposition of the European Directive on budgetary frameworks. The amendment to the Act gives rise to a simple extension of the scope of the public authorities to which the law on financial control is to be applied. In connection with the failure to comply with the deadline for transposition of this Directive, the Czech Republic is subject to infringement proceedings, on the basis of which monetary sanctions may be imposed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u3	You're right, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, let us all hear what the Minister has to say. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In view of this, it is necessary for the law to be passed as soon as possible. Let me remind you of the genesis, because we're really about six years after the transposition. The Ministry of Finance prepared various forms of transposition of the directive into the Financial Control Act for previous governments. However, none was successful in the legislative process. During the last parliamentary term, Sobotkův's government approved a comprehensive transposition amendment to the law. This amendment was even approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Senate then returned it for discussion and the Senate veto was not overvoted at the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies before the elections. Therefore, this government has submitted to the House only a minimum necessary regulation of the law, so that the Czech Republic will comply with the requirements of the directive as quickly as possible. This minimum transposition regulation consists in extending the law's scope to the state organization of SŽDC and voluntary associations of municipalities. The Guarantee Supervisory Committee of the Chamber of Deputies supplemented this amendment by two amendments which, although not related to the transposition of the directive, are reducing the administrative burden for municipalities and regions. The first amendment consists in simplifying the rules for small municipalities in the determination of signatures, the second in the abolition of regional obligations to sum up financial control reports for municipalities. The Ministry of Finance agreed with these amendments. The draft law, as amended by the amendments of the Supervisory Committee, was agreed by the Chamber of Deputies on 13 February of this year by 161 Members present. No one opposed, five Members abstained. I would like to underline that. The Senate Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment recommended approving the amendment to the Act, as referred to by the House. The Senate Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport recommended returning the bill to the House with an amendment. The Committee did not agree with the second amendment of the House's inspection committee proposing the abolition of the regional obligation to process the reports on the results of financial controls for municipalities in summary. The Senate subsequently returned the draft bill to the House with this amendment, which thus maintains the existing obligation of the regions to continue to process the reports in summary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u5	Madam Secretary, once again, I will ask our colleagues for peace of mind. I don't want to name it. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance is as follows. In view of the transposition of the directive and the exclusion of infringement proceedings, it is necessary to approve the amendment to the Act. Although the amendment of the House's Supervisory Committee is not directly related to the transposition, the Ministry of Finance recommends approving the draft law in the original version approved by the House and rejecting the Senate's amendment. In its amendment, the Supervisory Committee took into account that the Ministry of Finance had substantially simplified reporting obligations by amending the implementing decree to municipalities and regions in 2018. On the basis of this amended decree, municipalities will no longer process the text section of the report as well as the large table annexes. From the 2019 report, data on the number of checks carried out will only be completed. In the light of the simplification of the statement, the information system shall carry out an automatic check to ensure that the report has been submitted by all the obliged entities. I stress that this is an existing and functional information system. So nothing new will be built. The role of the regions in the transmission and control of reports from municipalities to the amendment of the decree thus loses meaning. That is why, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, the House's Audit Committee proposed an appropriate amendment to abolish this obligation for the regions. All the regions whose letters on this matter are at my disposal agree with the amendment of the Supervisory Committee. I have 14 letters from all the regions - I have also informed the Senate of this in plenary - that is to say they all support this change proposed by the Chamber of Deputies' Supervisory Committee and approved 161 Members on this ground. The abolition of this summation obligation is without prejudice to the methodological role of the regions towards the municipalities that are governed by another law, namely the Regional Law. The methodological scope of the regions therefore does not limit the proposed amendment and the regions will have access to that information system, as required by this amendment of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, which I also have at my disposal. That means they also support this novel. The amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies corresponds to the requirements of the local authority to reduce administrative burdens, rationalise the exercise of delegated powers and to the electronicisation of public administration. I believe that the proposed launch of the summation obligation will lead to an efficient, economical and efficient use of the regional authorities' capacity for other important tasks. I therefore wish to ask for the rejection of the Senate amendment and the approval of the bill tabled, as already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u7	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and please let Senator Vilímec take the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u8	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, Dear Government, allow me to justify the return of the Chamber of Press 261, the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Financial Control in Public Administration and amending certain Senate laws, with amendments contained in the relevant Parliaments of the Press 261/5. Madam Secretary has done such a historic field trip here. Yes, in the past period, the Chamber of Deputies discussed a completely new law on the control and management of public finances. Although this law has passed in the Chamber of Deputies, due to many issues, the Senate has been rejected and the House, as the Minister rightly pointed out, has no longer found the will to vote over the Senate's veto at the last meeting before the elections. I repeat this because some changes in the law on financial control in public administration should actually be very honest in thinking and discussing with the parties concerned. Otherwise, we can do more harm than good. The draft amendment to the Financial Control Act was submitted rather as a technical standard. Its aim was to expand, which was discussed by the Minister, the public entities subject to the regime of this Act on the Railway Infrastructure Administration, as well as voluntary associations of municipalities. The Minister will confirm to me that a very serious debate has been held in the Senate that the bureaucratic obligations of voluntary associations of municipalities increasingly bind the original meaning of these volumes, and this has been implementation and is the implementation of inter-general cooperation, the performance of certain public services together, which is often the only way to ensure their existence, but also efficiency and economy. Unfortunately, with the last amendment to the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, these voluntary volumes are viewed in the same way as any municipality or region. In view of the great demands and administrative nature on the functioning of voluntary associations of municipalities, the mayors, unfortunately, force them to do so, prefer either to create so-called microregions, associations that are not part of the public finance system or to seek informal cooperation. And I say, it is a shame and it is, and I want to stress this, to the detriment of the citizens and citizens of the communities involved. However, the approach of municipal legislation forces such action. It should be noted that the gradual bureaucratic strengthening of the activities of these voluntary unions leads to a gradual decline in their activities. The Ministry of Finance argues that this has been confirmed today by the Minister that European legislation requires that these volumes also be subject to control mechanisms under the regime of the applicable law on financial control in public administration. být let it be, the Senate did not reject the bill, even though such a proposal appeared there, but, in my opinion, it was adapted in a reasonable way. As far as the amendments by the Chamber of Deputies' Supervisory Committee are concerned, the Senate has treated these proposals in a differentiated manner. Whereas the provision that, in the case of a public authority with no more than five employees, a natural person other than an employee of a public authority may be the chief accountant or administrator of the budget, as well as the provision that the authorising officer of the operation may be both with the municipalities and regions and members of the representatives, is clearly welcome. On the contrary, and this is what the Minister said, the Senate disagreed with most of the second proposal, with which it came up in the Chamber of Deputies and which was not in the original government version of the law at all. It is a withdrawal, and the Minister says responsibilities, I say powers or powers, summarizing powers in the field of financial control. In this case, the senators made it clear that such a change cannot really be done unsystemically ad hoc. Although formally proposed this amendment by the Supervisory Committee, Mr Kubíček, I think, it was in fact an ex post legislative initiative by the Ministry of Finance, as we learned from the mouth of the Deputy Minister of Finance. Interestingly, the amendment to the implementing decree in force on 1 January does not include such a change. In addition, the amendment was processed into the text of the bill in an incomplete manner, which was passed by the Minister, when, for example, in Section 22, there is still a reference to the deleted paragraph 3. The Senate believes that changes in the scope of the regions and municipalities should go through a standard legislative process, otherwise we will make more mistakes than benefits. On the contrary, I consider it to be very unusual that the Ministry of Finance, after the meeting of the Senate Economic Committee, distributed an urgent report to the regional authorities, not to the regions but to the regional authorities, asking whether or not they wanted to maintain this competence. This would not have happened if the amendment had been proposed in a standard way and the entities concerned could have commented on it in the context of the preparation of the law. If the House's version of the law passes, it will mean that every municipality and newly and voluntary union of municipalities will have to communicate directly with the Ministry of Finance in connection with the sending of so-called statistical reports, not with the regions as the municipalities are used to. Yes, they are already sending data on the results of the inspections of the municipality through the information system of the Ministry of Finance, with the fact that the region controls the accuracy of their completion and then sends an annual report to the Ministry of Finance in summary form. I would also like to add that the Senate's amendment, like the parliamentary motion of the Supervisory Committee, abolishes the obligation to send these annual reports for each city or district in the case of statutory cities. Deputy Minister Vyhnánek stated to the committee how he wanted to simplify the implementing decree of the Act on Financial Control applicable on 1 January. When I came to our region's fundraiser with this information, I was misled. Simplifying is possible only for the smallest municipalities which do not carry out administrative control, but it does not in any way apply to other bodies. It is therefore difficult to trust this declared simplification of the annual reporting system following the abolition of the regional scope in this area. It is not advantageous for the municipalities, and I insist. A different situation would arise if, in the case of municipalities, a population of up to 15 000 is abandoned, which are not obliged to have an internal audit service, in order to refrain from these periodic statistical reports. I have already declared, as a Member of the last period, that the value of such reports is close to zero at the end of the bill, which has not been adopted. No one's even reading it. After all, why wasn't this amendment part of the bill when it appeared in the new law, which was ultimately rejected? I don't know. At least there would be a slight reduction in the ever-increasing bureaucracy. Madam Secretary spoke here, and I am close to concluding how many votes this amendment of the law has been supported. It may have suggested that the Senate's legislative initiative to abolish non-systemic, largely unnegotiated changes does not have a chance to pass in the Chamber of Deputies. But I really don't see the legislative process as a competition between the lower and upper chambers of prestige. I believe that, as legislators, we have the same and common interest - to approve quality and meaningful legislation. In the case of the Act on Financial Control in Public Administration, the Senate has revealed a poor quality change and therefore gives you the approval of the Senate version, which I believe corrects it. This is not about the prestige of the Ministry of Finance, Madam Secretary personally or Deputy Minister Tomáš Vyhnánek. In such a standard, we should all be concerned with legislative precision, system procedure and reduction of administration. None of these assumptions regarding the withdrawal of the powers of the regions in this area are fulfilled, contrary to what the Minister has said, and I therefore ask you, honourable Members, to approve the bill with the Senate's amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u9	Thank you, Senator. The Guarantee Committee in the House was the Audit Committee. I ask the rapporteur, Roman Kubíček, whether he wants to make amendments. He does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not agree with Senator Vilímc this time, because comments from the expert public during the whole process of approving this law in the inspection committee have been made. Deputy Minister Vyhnánek cooperated with me in making these amendments, and I am one of those who experienced the approval of the original law that did not pass. And I must say that there has been significant simplification and support for our House version has also been expressed by the Union of Cities and Municipalities and all regions. So support the House version for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u11	Thank you and I am opening the debate. I don't have an application. Mr. Senator is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u12	I would just like to respond - I will also be short - to both the Member and the Minister. I also have the letter from the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and that the letter would declare a clear agreement with the wording of the draft from the Chamber of Deputies, I did not really read it. I didn't really read that. We can compare it. We have the same letter. As far as the county authorities are concerned, yes. That's what I said in the Senate. The regional authorities supported these changes. But I'm not looking at it from the optics of employees or county officials. I'm looking at it from the optics of the municipalities and I'm saying that the design, the way it's designed, isn't the same for the municipalities (?).
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u13	Thank you. I do not see any further application for the debate, I am ending the debate. The Minister has an interest in the final word. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u14	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I will be very brief. Very brief. I just have to respond to a few sentences. With all due respect, Senator, and I really have respect for the Senate, I have a law school, my beloved alma mater in Brno, graduated, so I have respect for the parliamentary two-chamber system. The fact that I mentioned the number 161 Members here was merely that this was discussed, that those Members had thought this through and would not really have raised their hand if they had not seen the point. It is okay that he has bypassed my deputy regional authorities, because the regional authorities are securing this activity, and he has done so to ensure that the draft inspection committee has support, whether it simply makes sense. Because there's no point in dictating some of the parliamentary benches here, if basically the practice doesn't see it that way. So I'm just quoting. This cancellation - South Bohemian Region - will be a significant asset to the region. Just for a little while. I've got another county here. South Moravian County. The county doesn't evaluate it for its purposes, it doesn't use it. We propose, we support the abolition of this obligation. The kings of Hradec. We agree to abolish the obligation. It's a burden. Karlovy Vary County. We agree to abolish the obligation to process reports, reduce significant administrative burdens, simplify the reporting system, etc. They all talk the same way. They all talk the same way. That is why I finally leaned towards it, supported this trend, both my deputy on the working committees, and I supported it in the House of Deputies, because it just makes sense. I can't comment on any further arguments, Senator, because I don't understand them with all due respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u15	Thank you. Mr. Senator is interested in the final word. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u16	Then maybe, Madam Secretary, we don't understand each other. I'm just saying one thing. When the jurisdiction of the region or regions is abolished, and now it doesn't matter if it's the law on financial control or somewhere else, it should go through a normal legislative process. And if we resign to a normal hearing within a time limit that allows not only the regions but municipalities to comment on such a change, then we can do more harm than good. I, of course, respect the different opinion of the Minister, the different opinion of the Deputy Minister. I really do not see in this proposal to withdraw the powers of the regions in the context of financial control, I do not see any large administration. There really is no damage. On the contrary, some regional authorities, you didn't read it here, but some regional authorities were worried if they would even have access to the information that the municipalities were sending. I insist on the Senate's position. I think the Senate has acted wisely. He did not reject the bill, although it was also voted on, making a change that I consider rational and reasonable at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-23-ps2017-028-04-002-002.u17	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will introduce you to the motion for a resolution. It sounds like this: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law amending Act No. 320/2001 Coll., on financial control in the public administration and amending certain laws, as amended, according to the House press 261/4 as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 261/5." [[Financial control law]] There's a checkout request. I checked you all out. Log in again with your voting cards. We shall now proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 100, 166 Members registered, for 14, against 79. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 320/2001 Coll., on financial control in the public administration and amending certain laws, as amended, as amended, in which it was adopted in the Senate, according to House Press 261/4.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 101, 167 Members voted in favour of 152, against 1. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Minister, thank you, Mr Senator, and I am done discussing this point. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for today's meeting to the end of today for working reasons, Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the day and Mr Přemysl Mališ apologizes for today's meeting from 18.30 to 22.45 for family reasons. Initiating item number 42. It's about
