ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u1	218. Oral inhalation Oral intervention intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Czech Government as a whole, then to other members of the government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. I now give the floor to Mr Ivan Bartoš, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš. Mr. Jan Čižinský will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u2	Thank you, Mr President. So it's a wonder the Prime Minister isn't here when he was here this morning at the patronage. And now he's probably gone on a long weekend or a vacation. However, I will read the text of my interpelation. Dear Prime Minister, a number of expert analyses and opinions have been made public during the last six months which have shown that you are in conflict of interest under the European Financial Regulation. This entered into force last August. But as part of political communication towards voters, you keep saying that this is a campaign. Yesterday you even modified it to an organized conspiracy. As far as I understand it, you include an independent and professional body of the European Commission, namely its legal services, which has also produced a technical analysis with a clear view to your conflict of interest. In this matter, in your absence, I would like to ask you the following questions: One. Your movement has been patronizing itself with transparency since its inception. Will you therefore support that the audit of the European Commission, which has recently taken place in the Czech Republic in connection with your conflict of interest, should be published once it has been delivered to the Czech authorities, that is, 15 May 2019? And you're gonna put your cards on the table before the election? Two. Do you know at least one independent expert who would dare to claim that you are not in conflict of interest within the meaning of the European Financial Regulation? Three. Will you be transparent and will you publish all official communication with Commissioner Oettinger regarding the violation of the European Financial Regulation to the conflict of interest you have established last December? And four. This legal analysis of the experts of the European Commission has made it clear that you are in breach of the European regulation. At the same time, he described that you have de facto three options: first, to give up the Agrofert Group, second, to stop raising public funds or to leave the position of Prime Minister. Please describe how you solved this conflict of interest. However, I do not mean your symbolic departure from the ESIF Council, which in no way solves the situation. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u3	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And now, please, with another interview by Mr Jan Čižinský. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, on 9 April, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs published an announcement of the results of the grant procedure for the performance of social work for 2019. The published data show that this year there is a drastic reduction in money that the state is contributing to the social work carried over from 230 million to 200 million, i.e. in half. This is a much lower amount than in 2016, when the aid started to be granted. On the contrary, it was then promised that the subsidies would increase year on year, because social work is absolutely necessary. This year's decline in funding creates a crisis for municipalities in social work. Cutbacks mean destabilization of existing, currently insufficient capacities. The municipalities are in a situation where they are forced to break the methodological guidelines issued by the Ministry. In particular, the requirement to avoid the co-operation of certain positions where this is undesirable from an ethical and methodological point of view, or the correct inclusion of social workers in the 11th grade, which is also to be assessed in the context of controls according to the methodology. In some urban areas hl. the city of Prague, where I am informed in detail, the amount granted will not cover a single job. There will be a similar situation, I suppose, elsewhere. The State therefore transfers its entire scope to the municipalities without paying them the total costs incurred by them in carrying out the state administration, i.e. what the State wants them to do. In doing so, the obligations of municipalities with extended scope in the provision of social services are governed by Section 92 of Law 108 in a completely mandatory manner, as well as other special laws. The same situation arises, by the way, in health care, where the state, although laudably increasing the salaries of doctors, has not increased the respective transfers to municipalities. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to explain how your government will address the underlying crisis situation in the social services of the municipalities and the obvious contradiction between what the state requires of the municipalities in the field of social work and how much it contributes to them. I would be pleased if you would also comment on the issue of increasing the salaries of doctors and the consequences for the budgets of municipalities. [[Time warning]] I'm gonna take advantage of the situation because it's about finances, so I'm gonna hand the letter over to the Treasury Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u5	Thank you. And now, please - the Prime Minister will answer you in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Now with an interview on the publication of the Commission report by Mrs Kovářová. Mr Farský will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u6	Dear Prime Minister, this week we have been informed from the European Commission by Commissioner Günther Oettinger about the extensive audit that has been investigating your possible conflict of interest since January. The final audit report of the European Commission will be prepared by 15 May. I would like to invite you to publish this report immediately after this date, so that it is available to the Czech public and that Czech citizens can get to know it before the elections to the European Parliament. In my opinion, this is correct negotiations, even if there were no elections. However, I would like to prevent any attempt to postpone the publication of this report only after the elections, precisely because of the holding of these elections. Dear Prime Minister, will you publish this report the moment the Czech Government receives it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u7	Thank you, too. And like others, the Prime Minister will answer that question in writing within 30 days. Now, please, Mr Farský, who will interpel in the matter of the abolition of illegal executions. Mr. Kolářík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u8	Mr. absent Prime Minister, there are still some 200,000 illegal executions in the Czech Republic. Enforcements that are enforced without any legal reason. And we know for sure that they are illegal, approximately since May 2011, when the Supreme Court ruled that such executions must not be enforced and should not be enforced. Yet others have increased and increased. In your daily Sunday sermon on Facebook, on March 31, you wrote that you had already managed to cancel 200,000 of these executions. Then it turned out that it wasn't entirely true, you corrected the post to the information that the execution was gradually canceled due to invalid arbitration clauses. You're right. Both attorney Petr Němec, who had been able to disturb about 2.5,000 of them in three years, and I, too, at the moment I saw such a situation taking place here, made several dozen proposals to abolish illegal executions. And the courts respond differently and it is quite clear that this will have to be approached as conceptually and across the board as possible. So I want to ask you, after you've called a meeting at the government office, after you've issued a press release saying that it's about to start, I want to ask what else you're planning to do in this situation with 200,000 illegal executions, when you're planning to do it, and when we can wait for the first illegal executions to be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u9	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I now ask Mr Kolářík, who will interpelise on the illogical charging of ones. Mr. Černohorský will be ready. Ambassador Kolářík isn't here? I don't see him. I don't know if he's at the door. In that case, his interpellation is unfortunately failing. And Mr Černohorský has just arrived, so, please, Mr Černohorský, who will interpel in the matter of selling the violins of Arcelor Mittal. [[movement, to say]] Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u10	Hello. In its resolution of 25 October 2018, the Chamber of Deputies called on the Government of the Czech Republic to defend the interests of the Czech Republic with maximum commitment to the European Commission, taking into account the specific interests of employees of Arcelor Mittal Ostrava, in order to sell the hut into the hands of a candidate who will ensure the sustainable development of Ostrava's hut and thus of the entire region, as well as to require the government to require interested parties to purchase Arcelor Mittal Ostrava to submit a concrete plan and commitment to invest in this hut. Following this resolution, I ask the Prime Minister what steps the government has taken since the above resolution was adopted in relation to the European Commission in order to defend the interests of the Czech Republic and the employees of the company in selling the hammer; what is the development of the negotiations. And also: Has the buyer already submitted a specific plan and commitment to investment in the future? If so, if these documents can be traced somewhere, and what steps will the government possibly plan on this matter for the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u11	Thank you, too, especially for the perfect respect for time. Not even half of it was used. I'm sorry I said it was a movement in the title point. The Prime Minister will answer you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And now, please, with another interview by Mr Ferjenčík, who will interpel in the case of possible tax evasion of Agrofert. Mr Bartoň will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to ask the absent Prime Minister about the transfer pricing phenomenon. In the Czech Republic, one of the biggest problems in tax administration is that parent companies and subsidiaries conclude trades among themselves due to tax optimization. And I was intrigued that in an article on the web irozlas.cz, i.e. the Czech Radio website, it is said that the Čapi Nest farm had sales for advertising in the range of 270 miles. CZK in four years. I would like to remind you that, for example, the limit to the election campaign is 90 million in the Czech Republic. Kč. So the Chapi Nest farm delivered three times the largest election campaign in the Chambers of Elections, which can be demonstrated in the Czech Republic, and cashed out 270 miles from Agrofert. It seems to me that this is exactly the example of the transfer of the pricing, where Agrofert reduces his tax base by producing fictitious costs, and the farm of Capi nest, which is in loss, improves its management result, but does not pay taxes. I would like to ask, Prime Minister, how you can refute these suspicions and whether you can actually guarantee an independent assessment of this activity when your party controls the Ministry of Finance. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u13	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Next, Mr Bartoň will intersect education as a priority of the government. Mr. Michálek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u14	Thank you for the floor. In its resolution 241 of 19 December 2018, the House proposed the objective of getting funding into education to at least 5% of GDP by 2025. According to the latest available information, public spending into education is around 3.9 percent of GDP. I would like to ask, how did the government proceed to this challenge from the Chamber of Deputies? Was the government talking about it? How is this objective reflected in the 2020 budget and in the long-term forecasts by 2025?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u15	Thank you for your specific question. The Prime Minister shall be excused and shall reply in writing to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Next up, Mr. Michálek will intersect the clock at the Ministry of Justice. And Mr Kopřiva will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u16	The rest of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I must first of all oppose the fact that Prime Minister Babiš instead of coming to work for the interpelation of Members, on a date he knows several months in advance, and he knows that there are always interpelations on Thursday afternoons, so instead he went on vacation. Why doesn't he plan it? It is not possible for the Prime Minister, who is asked about whom Members ask and are to control, to go on vacation instead of his work and apologize at the last minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u17	Quiet in the hall, please. Ambassador, I should call you to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u18	That's point number one. To the point, but we can't deal with this because the Prime Minister isn't here. Then get him in here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u19	Please don't discuss the benches to the counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u20	And now to point two. [[The noise in the hall, the screams of the MPs.]] That's right, that's right. That is exactly what Mrs ANO says. What kind of behavior is that when the Prime Minister doesn't go for interpellation? That's absolutely outrageous behavior, and I'm totally in agreement with my ANO colleagues here. [[The screams of the Members from the benches.]] [[14.50 hours]] And now for the other part. This concerns the Justice Department. Mr. Prime Minister managed to force one of the best ministers of justice who has so far been here for his work of the three people to resign. And now we'll have the fourth minister in less than two years. That means the Justice Department is completely destabilized, they can't plan and implement projects there. So I'm asking him what were the reasons he was nominated for the new secretary, Mrs. Benešová? For what reason is the Castle, in essence, coming into this situation with its nominees when Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is to nominate this person, and in fact the initiative comes from the Castle. I consider this to be very unusual and I think - and I certainly do not agree with it. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador. Finish the sentence.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u21	Thank you, and now please Mr Kopřiva, who will interpel in the matter of the Government's Council, if it still exists. Mr Polanský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u22	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, it has been almost a year since I asked Mr Pelikán, then Minister of Justice, about the approach of the Government in the area of human rights and what he intends to do with the vacant position of the Government's Human Rights Commissioner. The only thing that's changed since then is the occupation of the ministerial chair. As we learned today, this is the second time. The post of Human Rights Commissioner is empty again and during this term the Human Rights Council has met exactly once, although its Rules of Procedure say that it will meet at least four times a year. The chairman of this council is responsible for this despicable state of affairs, which, Prime Minister, is you. And by the way, government councils on Romani minority affairs, gender equality and non-profit organizations, and the Human Rights Council mentioned above, which you are also the chairman of, have not met as many times as they should have met. This is clearly the Chairman's managerial failure. Now, about my questions. There is a tender for the new Government Human Rights Commissioner. Why is this procedure not transparent? When will it be finished and when will we know the new name? Are you going to continue to chair the Human Rights Council? If you remain President of the Human Rights Council, do you plan at least marginally to engage in this area? Or does your government just not want to address human rights at all? Thanks in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u23	I thank you and the Prime Minister will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I now ask Mr Polanský, who will interpel to update the feasibility study. Mr. Michálek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u24	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, it is the year your government decided to move Brno Railway Station to a new location, the so-called river variant. On the basis of the arguments put forward by rail freight carriers that the reconstruction of the junction could make it worse, the Central Commission of the Ministry of Transport decided to process the update of the feasibility study. The study was supposedly covered by procurement documents, and this was done last summer, but the contract was never published. First, the Ministry claimed that the technical-economic update would eventually be done by SŽDC's own forces, today it says that no updates will be published. Only an assessment will be carried out, but only as part of the preparatory work on the partial reconstruction of the Jewenice node. Thus, only within the framework of the follow-up documentation, where the results can no longer affect anything. How do you feel about the fact that the Ministry of Transport prevents a full independent technical and economic evaluation of the permeability of the selected version of the project reconstruction of the railway junction Brno until it is actually too late to change anything? Will you make amends? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u25	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Next, Mr Michálek was to interpel, but he withdrew his interpellation as well as others. Thus, we have exhausted our interpelations to the Prime Minister, and now there will be oral interpelations to other members of the government. And I call on Mr Nacher, who will interpel Mr Táok on the issue of mass action, the issue of Dieselgate. And Mr. Černohorský will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u26	Good afternoon. I have a premiere here when it comes to interpellation. I have decided on this interpelation from the point of view of the fact that the institute of mass lawsuits is rapidly approaching us, and I would not like those collective actions to be perceived only by means of media-known cases such as bank charges or investment life insurance. So-called Dieselgate is running around the world, which I think is a typical thing that fits exactly into mass lawsuits. So I would like to take this opportunity to draw some attention to it and ask the Minister. I'll be very brief today. I'll only ask three questions. I would probably continue this matter until the moment the new Minister of Transport becomes. So what concrete steps did the Ministry of Transport take after the emission case of Dieselgate? Question number two. Since the Municipal Court in Prague stated in the judgment in 2017 that the shortcomings of vehicles affected by the emission case pose a serious danger to the environment, then if the Ministry of Transport responded to this fact? And what measures have been taken on this matter? And finally, the last question. I found somewhere in the press that the prosecutor's office in Germany accused the former head of the Volkswagen Group. So I wanted to ask, because there are a little further, if the Ministry of Transport is working with the German authorities on this matter to determine the damage caused by this negotiation and some other measures. I have more questions about this matter, but at this point, I don't think there's any point. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u27	Thank you. The Minister is not present, so he will reply in writing within 30 days. Please, Mr Černohorský, who will interpel the Minister Brabec on the air improvement programme. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u28	Hello. The Czech Republic now has a unique opportunity to influence air quality in the border areas, especially in Ostrava. Air in the region has been polluted by local heating sites and stationary sources from neighbouring Poland for a long time. Poland is currently preparing a national air pollution control programme under the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the reduction of European emissions of certain substances. The Polish national air pollution control programme provides the Czech Republic with the opportunity to significantly reduce long-distance emissions from Poland, which is particularly concerned with Ostrava. According to Article 6 of this Directive, the Czech Republic has the right to participate in the process by means of cross-border consultations within the so-called cross-border SEA. The interested Czech entities could then enter the public environmental impact assessment process and influence the degree of cross-border pollution in the future. In my opinion, therefore, the Ministry of the Environment should act as soon as possible on this matter, and the Czech Republic should address both neighbouring Poland and the European Commission and initiate the process of cross-border public environmental impact assessment. So I'm asking: Are you going to take the above proposed steps in this matter and initiate the involvement of the Czech Republic in the process of preparing the Polish national air pollution control programme? If so, in what timetable? If you don't, I'll ask for a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u29	Thank you. The Minister will answer your questions in writing within 30 days. I beg Mr Farský, who will intersect Minister Kněžínek on the abolition of illegal executions. Mr Bartošek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u30	Dear absent and ending minister, I was quite amused by the view of the record, where three of the three interpelees just a moment ago, from the four interpelations just a moment ago, three interpelations went to ministers who were still at the time of the interpelling, and perhaps now they are not. So the rate of exchange of experts at the head of the state is surprising. I wanted to thank you. To thank for the fact that after years of ignoring illegal execution, after eight years of not fully respecting the findings or decisions of the Supreme Court, things have finally set in motion. According to the government's press statement, I have read that you, Minister, from your position, have ordered the president of the courts to begin the illegal executions as they are tasked to finally address ex officio. I wanted to ask you for this letter because I'm sending myself a motion to abolish illegal executions, and I think it would be a shame if we didn't coordinate the joint work somehow. [[15.00 hours]] At the same time, I wanted to ask, and maybe I can already get an answer from the incoming Minister of Justice, but I want it to be another plan to abolish 200,000 illegal executions in the Czech Republic, what steps it is taking and what deadlines it is prepared to remove this great injustice from our Republic. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u31	Thank you. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Now please Mr Bartošek, who will interpelise on the debt of Czech Railways to Minister Ťok. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister of Transport, in 2012 ČD issued publicly negotiable bonds for seven years with interest of 4,125 %. This is the amount of EUR 300 million, which is approximately CZK 8 billion. The maturity of these bonds will be 22 July 2019. The only solution is to refinance this debt, i.e. to issue a new issue of publicly negotiable bonds similar to that of June 2019 and to use the return on the new issue to repay these bonds. The new issue process requires several months of preparation, presentation and negotiations with creditors. Therefore, I would like to ask how far the process of preparing a new bond issue is and whether it will be able to obtain a return from this issue by 22 July. In the event that the new issue does not take place by June, this is negligence and damage to the joint-stock company České dráhy by the management of the company. It would then be necessary to consider whether this is a deliberate offence or negligence. And I have an additional question. Dear Minister, isn't the aim of the management of the Czech Railways and the Ministry of Transport a deliberate deterioration of the profile of the Czech Railways, and thus forced and rapid sale of subsidiaries and property of the Czech Railways in quotation marks below the price in the event of imminent insolvency? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u33	Thank you. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Before I call another speaker, there's a note. Mr Schiller apologizes to us between 15.15 and 18.00 for reasons of work. And now, please, Mr Ferjenčík, who will interpel in the matter of 'what kind of tax reform can we expect', Minister Schillerová. Mr Profant will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for finding the time to come as one of the few in the government. Thank you very much for that. I would like to ask what tax reform we can expect from your government. Before the elections, you promised to cut income tax and simplify taxes. Those were the two priorities of the YES movement. Coincidentally, these are similar priorities to those of the pirát in this area. We have proposed an increase in the taxpayer's discount to CZK 30,000, which is the most justified tax reduction for people, where every citizen would save CZK 5,000 a year. You didn't support it. Instead, about every six months, you present a new reform in the media to postpone it. So I would like to ask what we can really expect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u35	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, of course I'm making a lot of changes. But the most fundamental change that I am fully focusing on, and it is important from the point of view of legislation, which I will send to inter-ministerial commentary proceedings within a month, but especially the IT systems must be well set up, so reform, which aims to bring a wider range of people to electronic communication in the field of taxation. We're calling it my taxes, or my online financial office. There I will send to roughly, at this point we have already finalized the text, in a very short time, the month is the longest time, to the inter-ministerial commentary procedure legislative regulation, which sets all the conditions necessary for the online financial office. But, of course, I'm going to include things like repayment, undisputed repayment of excess of deduction, a new revision of the penalty system that will be in favour of tax entities, and a number of institutions of a procedural nature that will simplify these taxes. And, of course, in connection with that, we need to set up IT systems so that we can actually file a tax return, as I always say in a bit of a carried-over sense, either from the office or from the living room chair. But I'm gonna be perfectly honest about how we're gonna proceed. We're going to use two areas that we have. The first is called. EPO, or the possibility of electronic submission, maybe you know what is on the Financial Administration website, and so-called. tax information box, which you may also know if you have access to it. And these are the two areas that we will use precisely for this online financial office, because I think it's a really mature time to make a confession like this in Estonia or Sweden. So that's absolutely the biggest thing for me right now... And it's a pretty big project. It sounds simple, but it is a big project that we devote a huge amount of time to, and we have put all our strength on it, whether from the Ministry of Finance or from the perspective of legislation, especially the General Financial Directorate and the Financial Administration, where the IT project is managed. So it will be possible to actually... The standardization of filing and communication with the tax administrator will allow for more involvement in tax administration automation with minimal interventions in the future. It will also allow the development of certain procedural options. It won't just be a one-time project, but it'll be built to add additional functionality, which means we can build on it further. Of course, we are also finishing the EET in connection with this because I believe, after yesterday's release to third reading, that we will be able to pass the law. And, of course, other functions will also be related to this. In addition, within a month or so, I will send a new Digital Tax Act into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. That's what I told you last time. This is also a priority for me at the moment, because France has not succeeded in promoting the adjustment with which it came at European level. She definitely fell under the table about a month ago, or maybe six weeks ago. The OECD platform, the global adjustment, is being worked on, but that's what's known as a long-distance run. We just don't want to wait for that. I consider it - someone calls it a sector tax. I think it's a mistake. It's just a compensatory tax. These platforms are in business here. They earn revenue from the territory of the Czech Republic, and it is appropriate to pay some of it, let's call it, for example, a labour tax, just as some countries have introduced it in Austria, or they are now going to do so in France, because the European model has not succeeded. So that's another thing we're working on. I sent the package to the interdepartment. You know that. Next, in terms of tax simplification, I will send a separate law to the interdepartment, which governs so-called. flat-rate tax. There we have to fine-tune the last thing on the level - because it concerns three resorts - the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. It's the example I've been talking about in the media, which means that actually the taxpayer will pay if he decides, it won't be an obligation, it'll be a choice, the taxpayer will pay the income tax, I'm sorry, he'll actually pay one payment and it's going to settle. [[Time warning]] I've got a whole series of other things I'm going to do in the interdepartment, but... time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u37	If necessary, the Member shall ask you an additional question. Ambassador, are you interested in a follow-up question? I see you do. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u38	Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary. I'd like to ask you when are you planning to launch the system? My taxes, because of course the interdepartment is important, but I think citizens are more interested in when it starts to work. And secondly, I wonder if social security contributions will be included in that system at the time of launch, which would be a rapid simplification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u39	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u40	Just today, I approved my deputy's schedule. As I said, I'll send it to inter-ministerial commentary proceedings within a month, then it will depend on the length of the legislative process. If this were to succeed on January 1, 2020, I am rather skeptical, rather I think it will be spring, April-May 2020, according to the timetable. But the question of a legislative process is one thing. The second thing is IT systems. Now we're looking -- of course we have to have it at some point so we can work on it. We're already involved in my taxes. We're going to find the easiest way, which means that, for example - obviously, I'm going to answer your question right now - part of it, logically, will be both social security payments and health payments. Otherwise, there wouldn't be any point. There'll be three payments. And now we're looking, the hardest of all will be the IT solution. It's harder than legislative. Legally, we're just gonna put it together, it's gonna go into the interdepartment. We're gonna have a debate here. I expect support from the right spectrum as expressed by Members from these opposition benches. But the IT system - and we're debating how to simplify it so that we don't have to do it by the system, that the basis is that the taxpayer pays the Financial Administration with one payment. And we're looking for ways so we don't have to settle it. That's where the single collection point went down. That's what went wrong. I remember. I was part of a working group. Legitimately, she was ready. That's true, but IT systems zero. And that's where it got harder. This is a real plan. There it was all the harder that each payment was different. And it was absolutely, it was a different time, it was just completely unprepared. There's going to be one payment. That makes it easier. And we're looking for ways so that we don't have to transfer it directly to social security, we're going to have to get it to the state budget - because it's the income of the state budget - it's a drink-out. [[Time warning]] So that's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u41	Thank you. I now ask Mr Profant, who will interpel in the case of open data at the Ministry of the Czech Republic. Mr Polanský will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u42	Good afternoon. Dear Sir - absent - Minister, you have the role of national open data coordinator in your department. Open data is a phenomenon of today that conveys data in machine-readable form without licensing restrictions to the general public and authorities themselves. They are included in various European declarations, in various international conventions to which the Czech Republic has committed itself and so on. I think your open data coordinator works well at the Ministry of the Interior, but I see one big flaw in beauty, and that's that the Ministry of the Interior doesn't publish almost any open data. [[Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček is coming.]] The minister has arrived. The problem I see is that your resort is overseeing something, it coordinates it, but it doesn't set an example. And it's not really just the Ministry itself, it's also about the police, and it's about other files that are quite clearly in your gesture and your resort, so I'm wondering if you're going to make this right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u43	Thank you. I ask the Minister to answer if he can do it on the basis of a partial question he's heard. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u44	Thank you. Dear Member, the Ministry of the Interior, which is a gesture of the issue of open data at national level, currently publishes 64 data sets in the form of open data. This information can be obtained from the National Open Data Catalogue in the Providers section at the web address I will inform you of. The latest addition is data sets from the Register of Rights and Obligations. These are published on the highest degree of openness in JSON and JSON-LD format. The Ministry also provides data on public authorities, their agendas, activities, authorisations, powers, etc. And we are currently preparing an infrastructure for a uniform way of publishing across the resort, starting with an internal directive, unifying the process of publication and a unified software and hardware environment for publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u45	Thank you, too. The Member will probably be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u46	Thank you in advance. This answer has pleased me, and I particularly commend you for the high degree of openness, because it is of course not a matter of course, and I am very much looking forward to the especially new systemic steps that will help smooth progress across the resort, because this is very often important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u47	Thank you. The Minister is not interested in answering an additional question. Let's move on. Mr Polanský will intersect Minister Took on the process of eliminating illegal billboards. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u48	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, I have intersected you three times on illegal billboards on Czech roads. Due to the end of your engagement at the Department of Transport, I feel some need to end this topic as well. Meanwhile, the Road and Motorway Directorate has already obtained a decision from the Constitutional Court, which confirmed the legality of the entire provision, that is to say, regulation of advertising along roads. According to the information available, about three thousand were removed from the D1,100 trailers, i.e. from the total number in the Republic. So I'm asking you how many legal pilgrims have actually been removed, and when we're going to - that's probably what we're all interested in most - end the removal. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u49	Thank you. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Mr Michálek has now withdrawn his intervention on the ending Minister Kněžínek, so that Mrs Kovářová, Minister Schillerová, will now intersect on the matter of the financial authorities. Mr. Mr. Třešňák will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u50	Dear Minister, according to the report of the press spokesperson of the General Financial Directorate, there is going to be an optimization of the financial authorities, with 23 territorial offices of the financial authorities disappearing throughout the Czech Republic. The reason for this disturbance is that these smallest financial authorities are inefficient and represent a considerable financial burden for the State. These are partly relevant reasons, but I'm afraid you're forgetting to look at this issue through the optics of an ordinary citizen. By disturbing these territorial workplaces, there is greater centralization and at the same time distanced from the citizen. Newly, in order for a citizen to be able to settle his financial office agenda, he'll have to drive a dozen miles further than he does now. This further centralisation of the Authority also contributes to further depopulation of rural and regional areas. At the same time, this optimization is defended by claiming that the number of citizens communicating with the Authority is increasing digitally. However, I cannot identify with this claim. Then I would like to compare the optimization of the financial authorities to last year's attempt to abolish the matriculation authorities. Madam Secretary, how much have been taken into account in optimising the financial authorities in view of moving away from citizens? How much will we save by shutting down these workplaces? Based on what data do you claim to be increasing the number of citizens communicating with the Authority via digital channels? What's the percentage? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u51	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I left the preparations lying down because, of course, I had no idea what would be the subject of this question. It's okay. I've got a little set up in a different direction. [[There's a cell phone ringing in the room.]] I got scared that someone was calling me, telling me. That would be good, but I have to deal with myself as always. [[15.20 hours]] Madam, I don't know what press release you're talking about. I really swear I don't know. I haven't read a press release like this, and I have a strong doubt that one of these has been published. The territorial workplaces are defined by the decree of the Minister of Finance. I'm not making a decree. That means I'm not going to make any kind of decree to cancel any kind of zoning center. As far as I know, the Director-General - and this is absolutely general information without details - is working as much as anyone in the public sector... at all ministries... I'm tired, I really need you... Easter, not Christmas, I was gonna say vánoce, Easter. You can see I'm really tired. So basically they're all working on some kind of optimization. My point is, I'm gonna be cutting 10 percent at the Treasury Department. We're just talking about it, we're dealing with it, and we're able to handle it. Because some of the agendas are optimized, some of the departments we're going to merge, etc., it's just possible. And the CEO's working on it, too. Of course, in financial offices, I say openly, it will not decrease 10 percent. We're not doing a pogrom because we're glad the financial authorities are working the way they're working. But even there, she's considering a certain optimization of the agenda. A whole series of these processes are based on analytics today. Today, it simply means that they today have a large number of different activities to be able to base on analyses that were previously done, for example, more, as the people say, on their knees, if I had to say so. So, of course, it's also considering all these considerations. I'm sure she's going the way we talked about it, but it's her responsibility and her work that I don't interfere with. Because she's in charge of the Financial Administration. That he'd go down the road, that the higher he'd be, the lower he'd be, if you know what I mean. And the lower that it means, now we're talking about territorial workplaces, so there's as little as possible. So it's going to be her reflection that she's dealing with. The numbers aren't falling, she's systemizing, she's prepping as she imagines. He's just a guy who's spent almost 30, just like me, 25, so she's a lot longer in the Financial Administration, so she understands what to do. So now to your question, I don't want to get out of the way. It's her gesture. The territorial workplaces under the decree will not be cancelled. And she, as far as I know, is just mapping what the yield of individual workplaces is. This means whether it would be worth considering, because there is a need for a territorial workplace, and so does the Customs Administration, which does, where the taxpayer does not visit, how long a year is. So she's mapping it, doing her analysis, and that's it. And I think he's okay. So far, this is absolutely everything, and I have no other information. And I have a very strong doubt that there is any other information. And logically, he's talking to the warden. Those are her closest, that's her advisory body. He's gonna do a show of directors of financial offices and talk to them. How do you see it? Where can we get an agenda? Because the shift is big. It's just not, the jobs aren't done the way they were done 10, 15 years ago, 20 years ago. It changes in, like, three or five years. Because the automation is changing. We're simplifying the legislation. We just have an EET control report in the system. So these are all activities that just make them more efficient. And, of course, she has to talk about it with her advisory body. And as I know, the environment, intimately, is obviously consulting with its advisory body. They consult with their advisory body. And that's how it's gonna go down to that office clerk at the local office who's gonna complain to you. Or someone in your neighborhood. And you're intersecting me, which is okay, I'm not defending myself, I'm just telling you what the current state of affairs is. And she has to do it. Just like I have to debate with my government colleagues. And unfortunately, because I'm a minister, sometimes it happens to me that this kind of work debate gets into the media, and then I walk for two months and explain that we're not planning any reform on the payment of state insurance, that it was one of the solutions. So she's going the exact same way. So that's it. And when there's something, I'm sure everyone will know in time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u53	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? He mít. prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u54	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. And if you're saying that no workplaces will be disturbed through the decree, that's what calmed me down. And if something like this were to happen, I hope I don't have to know, either, but it's more about finding out to the mayors on whose territory these territorial sites are located.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u55	Thank you. Madam Secretary is interested in answering an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u56	Thank you for the question, because I forgot to say that when we're working together with the principal, we meet every week at a meeting that, of course, I get that kind of information from her, on the contrary, we both agree that if anything changes, the decree will not change. I can tell you that now. That's what I decided, that's what it's gonna be. But it can happen that traffic can be set up somewhere else. Because it's no use if no one comes in, but I'm not talking about anybody in particular. Now it's being mapped. So we both agreed that the first person to know such things would have to be the mayor of the village.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u57	Thank you and please Mr Třešňák, who will interpel Mr Vojtěch on the matter of the air rescue service. Mrs Procházková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u58	Good afternoon. Dear Minister, the government's original idea of providing all air rescue stations by the state was finally dropped under the table, which meant a pretty substantial reversal in the concept that has been presented by the government for the last two years as the most appropriate one. According to the latest information, the Ministry is preparing a selection procedure for air rescue services at a total of eight locations. Some information has already fallen on the committees and, for the last time, on the subcommittee for the economy in the health sector. Unfortunately, the information presented is not clear how the Karlovy Vary Region will be served, so that it will be fully covered. It is currently served mainly by the Army of the Czech Republic from the Pilsen-Lín site. The problem is not only the coverage of the Ašský projekku and part of the Ore Mountains, but also the worse accessible terrain of the Doupov Mountains for medical rescue. According to the statement not only in the media, but also on the subcommittee, the Ministry is supposed to expect contractual collateral with German partners from Saxony and Bavaria to cover the entire territory of the region. So my questions are as follows. Firstly, at what stage is the processing of the procurement conditions and is the deadline still valid at the end of April of this year? Secondly, how the full coverage of the Karlovy Vary Region will be solved so that, for example, the 20-minute range will be met, although I know that the aircraft is not mentioned in minutes. And thirdly, if there was a valid claim to cover from the German side, at what stage is the consultation with the German partners? Specifically, when will a treaty be signed to deal with this? Not only the framework with Bavaria and Sasko, but the implementation agreement itself. Whether the location of the habitats and the distance from the Federal Republic of Germany complies with the timely reach to the patient. Most importantly, I may be able to make it in just a few seconds: what kind of financial burden it will be covered by, because it is not just a flight to the patient but its subsequent transport, i.e. a relatively long flight through the Czech territory. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u59	I, too, thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, when it comes to this interpellation, it is actually necessary to begin with with the change in the position of the government - I would not say that this is a fundamental change, rather a development and that we really set the system so that it is functional and feasible at that time. We know today that our contracts simply end on 31st. 12. 2020 means creating a state enterprise that would serve the entire territory of the Czech Republic, after all the various consultations it would simply not be possible until then. So I don't think that's an idea that's completely abandoned for the future, but we just have to make sure that the project works and that the air rescue service is secured. Therefore, in January 2019 it decided to go the way of the existing variant, or the existing form of ten habitats and partly two secured by the state, the police, the army and the rest of the privates. [[15.30 hours]] So this is approved. Of course, our priority task now is to have the procurement documents prepared. You said that right, because the selection procedure must be completed so that, of course, everyone has the opportunity to prepare for this, especially medical rescuers, and the service could continue continuously from 1. 1. 2021. The tender documentation is now in preparation, it will be completed in May 2019. We have a clear timetable, which I don't think I'm gonna read here, but it just has to be a preliminary announcement. That should be by 30. 6. 2019 - contract award in September 2019, etc., etc. The aim is for us to sign a contract by the end of the year, so that the contract is competitive, so that this is the year, let's say, the period when everyone will actually adapt if there is a new operator, because that can, of course, happen. And it actually happened in the previous tender that new providers came forward, but unfortunately it wasn't dealt with this way in advance and there was quite a mix-up, so we want to prevent it, and so we want some adaptation to be there that year. I think we're fulfilling this schedule, and I'm sure I'd be happy to keep you informed. As far as Karlovy Vary is concerned, there is a situation that needs to be realised or to be remembered that the number of bases has been operating this way for a very long time. That's not new. The fact that in Karlovy Vary and Zlín, these are actually two regional cities is not an air rescue station is something that is here in the long term. It is true that a number of experts on this topic have done various analyses in the past and so on, and it has always been concluded that even in comparison with other countries, the Air Rescue Station network is fairly well secured when we look at the circles. It is true that in part of the Karlovy Vary Region and only parts, not the whole Karlovy Vary Region, there is perhaps a smaller exposition, twenty minutes is simply not observed there, although it should be remembered that helicopters with higher flight speed are needed in those lines, so it is a question. I don't think the extension's that strong, and it's definitely just over 20 minutes. On the other hand, if we were to set up an air rescue unit there, we were dealing with an army, which wasn't entirely in favour of it, so we'll see. It will be ensured by Germany under an international treaty that is signed, and we think there should be no problem. There is reciprocity, which means that Germany will pay for this itself, just as the Czech Republic will bear the costs if the medical rescue services cross the border. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'll finish it in the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u61	Yes, thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? It does, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u62	First of all, I thank the Minister for having communicated the timetable for the post, the selection procedure for the posts that are being operated commercially. Thanks to the fact that I'm going to ask a question, at least I'm going to give room to answer and continue to answer and maybe even specify it, because, as far as I know, only framework contracts are signed with the German side and there is no concrete implementation. If you don't, then you can make a mistake, but I don't think that particular implementation contract is written there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u63	Thank you for your follow-up. The Minister is interested in an additional answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u64	I would just add one more thing that it is also necessary to realize before I answer the additional question that there is no trauma center in the Karlovy Vary Region, so of course this would also be linked to the fact that there would have to be a trauma center, which, of course, is another cost of personnel and so on. I know, of course, that those who are from Karlovy Vary are fighting for the station, but it's not exactly that simple and we think it's possible to do it without an air rescue station. It also needs to be realized, and it is not always said that the air rescue service is of course only an accessory; it is still the ground medical rescue service, which leaves at the same time as the helicopter. I wouldn't be completely attached here to the fact that the Air Rescue Service is all-savvy. I think it's important that the ground works. As far as Germany is concerned, and I don't know what implementation contracts you're talking about, I don't have any information. We have a cross-border cooperation agreement in the field of medical rescue services with Germany and Austria. These contracts are very similar. Unfortunately, we do not yet have Poland and Slovakia. These agreements clearly address mechanisms for the cross-border provision of medical rescue services both on land and, of course, on air. Of course, it's always to evaluate the exact operating center, if it sends a ground ambulance from Germany, which it will still be, or if it sends a helicopter there, as it is in the Czech Republic. Here in this regard, this contract should be treated; there is no need to make any specific implementing amendments or anything like that. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I don't think there should be a problem here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u65	Thank you. And now, please, Mrs Procházková, who will interpel Mrs Schillerová on the position of the Ministry of Finance on the proposal to legalize prostitution and prepare Mr Černohorský. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u66	Good afternoon, everyone. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, the rest of the Pirate Party, yours must be at Easter by now. I have always been convinced that the questioning should be for Members of the non-compete, so that they have room for their questions. I see there are very few here. I am even more sorry and wondering that although the topics of interpellation are well known, there is no interest in the topic on which I want to ask the Minister, and this is a very serious topic, because I am from the Karlovy Vary Region and we are very concerned about it and I know that the Pirate Party has presented its thesis on the proposal for legalization of prostitution. Do you think this proposal is feasible? How much would this measure bring to the state budget? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u67	Thank you. I would like to point out that I agree that the interpellations are particularly for opposition Members and also that... Well, please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, this is a subject which is not new at all. As an old finance guy, not by age, but by experience - it basically went back to the resort I come from at certain intervals, and it always fell asleep for some reason, because it has one basic denominator. [[with a smile]] They're basically two ways to fight or legalize, looking for the right term, prostitution. When we look for Europe, there are two such basic approaches. The first is Swedish who criminalize prostitution. That means, under certain conditions, they just consider her criminal, and that's way one. I don't value it. It's their way. The second path is more liberal, for example Germany or the Netherlands, and they legalize prostitution. This, of course, by legalising that some regulation will be set up, so the aim should be, first of all, that persons who provide such services to this oldest craft, as they say, are provided with certain rights and better working conditions, such as social and health security, which basically today, by belonging to the grey zone, and, as the Member says, it is something that she encounters in her territory, are not actually provided. [[15.40 hours]] As early as 2013 - for colleagues from the Pirate Party, because they are young, they at that time were perhaps in kindergarten or just somewhere yet compulsory school; I don't want to knock them down with this, I just don't think they can remember. Already in 2013, there were two proposals for legalization that were not supported. And the obstacle, I would like to say, is also the Convention on the suppression and abolition of human trafficking and the use of prostitution of others from 1950, which was ratified in 1958 by Czechoslovakia at the time and which, in principle, makes it impossible for any form of legalization of prostitution. From the Minister of Finance's point of view, prostitution is already subject to taxation today, because if a prostitute or prostitute wishes to pursue her business legally, to pay taxes, to be conducted in a social insurance system, then she operates as an OSVČ under another business today. It may be different, and now I don't want to touch anyone, but of course, in my practice, I met with the tax clerk, even remembering that once there was some sort of control action some 15 years ago, that was checked within the Republic at all, whether and where there are areas, how it is operated. I even remember the period when the price list was compiled for control purposes in quotation marks of these services - actively. I mean, regionally, I don't think it's done in the Republic. It was just being examined, and I remember that from the audit work of the financial officer, I wouldn't know as a minister who doesn't have the experience of the resort, so I remember that it was just being found that it was often done under various labels such as salons etc. I don't want to specify that I don't touch anyone, because I'm gonna read tomorrow somewhere later that I said that this and this activity are prostitution. So I'm not putting out a box. So what's the basis? These people always want to remain anonymous. So if they want to pay taxes, social, health, just have these and benefits actually, they usually do business as a self-employed person under some sort of label. Those are just facts that everyone here probably knows. And no new label can do that, because the label means we'd have to do this kind of business, she wouldn't theoretically have to be tied up, those women would have to register. It just doesn't come out of character. [[President: Time, Madam Secretary.]] I don't think there's a solution. It'll always be under some kind of sticker, and it's actually happening today, or it'll be happening in the gray zone. Otherwise, I mean, billions wouldn't have brought it into the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u69	Thank you. I dare say, I just remembered that the topics weren't announced until 11:00, so I don't know how many of the 130 colleagues who are excused went through them or not. And I would like to point out that in 2013, the Pirate Party existed for over three years. Madame, are you interested in an additional question? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u70	Thank you for the floor. I am of the same opinion that it will certainly not bring billions. Of course, I am interested in the situation of these women as a woman, because of course they are in very bad shape and, of course, every attack is very burdensome and stressful for them. So thank you. And otherwise of course, although the topics, I had the topic the last time for interpelation, so I'm sure the topic has been known for a long time. And yet I think that there is very little sitting here in opposition benches. We're being attacked here that we're not here, but here we are, those who are interested in interpelations, so here they are, and we can talk to the ministers directly. So I'm sorry. It's Easter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u71	Thank you. Madam Secretary is interested in an additional answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u72	Yes, Madame, you're right. There, very often, it is important that these women are in a difficult social situation. It solves problems. It's often related to violence, drugs. So, of course, these are all the reasons why they remain largely anonymous and illegal. Otherwise, with the numbers. In 2015, the Czech Statistical Office estimated the value of prostitution services to about 6 billion. CZK, but of course we have to assume that there are also high costs. So the cost was estimated at about 3 billion. - different hairdressers, etc., anything. Of which 15 per cent is 450 million. Crowns. If we were to deduct the discounts that they would apply and they would be entitled to, then the tax would be about 127 million. Kč. Health insurance they have to pay now, but the state pays for the unemployed, so often they are unemployed women. Social insurance would be for 13 people with average annual income after a cost deduction of 230 thousand. The amount of CZK 436 million per person could be about a contribution to the state budget of about 560 million. plus something for health. An estimate. So it must be assumed, however, that part of these persons already today income from prostitution taxes under the auspices of another trade, which would reduce the total amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u73	I also thank you, and before I give the floor to the next speaker, there are two apologies. Mrs Balcarová apologizes from 16 o'clock in the sitting of the plenary for working reasons and Mr Bartoš from 16 o'clock until the end of the sitting day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. You can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u74	Thank you. Since we are intersecting ministers, not other Members, who cannot interfere anyway, I will certainly not blame the fact that other colleagues are not present here, rather we are always trying to have ministers present, so in this case I would also like to thank all the two ministers present, but therefore my intervention is aimed at Minister Staněk. His statement thus on the website of the Ministry of Culture of 2. 4. 2019, where he claimed the following: "I will never let kotva fall as the case of Transgas." While here I appreciate that, on behalf of the Ministry of Culture, he has decided to reflect the constant failure of the Ministry of Culture in the field of conservation, this statement has clearly admitted that these failures are taking place. In the case of the Transgas case, a failure occurred on the basis of the political decision of the former Minister of Culture of 15. 11. 2017 on the suspension of the review procedure for the declaration of Transgas as a cultural monument. I am of the opinion that the Ministry of Culture must correct this failure, given that all the expert advisory bodies of the Ministry of Culture have clearly recommended the declaration of cultural heritage. This also puts the case of Transgas in a position for conservation in general a very dangerous precedent. My question is therefore that I ask for the Minister's observations on what he specifically did in order to remedy the failure of the Transgas case as Minister of Culture, whether he intends to proceed in a similar manner as in the case of the re-examination of the Kotvo House of Commerce for a cultural monument even if the review procedure for the Transgas declaration for a cultural monument has already been halted, and I therefore ask him, if necessary, for information on what steps he intends to take further in the section of the State Monument Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u75	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister is absent, excused and will reply in writing within 30 days. Now Minister Staněk will intersect Mr Polanský on the appeal of the Director of the National Gallery. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u76	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, today you have informed the media about the appeal of the director of the National Gallery of Prague Jiří Fajt and the director of the Museum of Art Olomouc Michal Soukup. You did so allegedly on the basis of checks on their management. In view of the briefness of the media communication, I ask you to present us with the documents on which you have made these two decisions. And since you're not here today, I'm going to ask you for materials in electronic form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u77	Thank you. The Minister will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And now, please, Mrs Procházková, who will interpel Mrs Schillerová on the outcome of the Republic's bond project. Mr Bartoň will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u78	Thank you for the floor. I also have a premiere today and three questions and another one for the Minister. So, Madam Secretary, at the end of last year, you launched a bond project for the Republic, and I'm wondering how you're evaluating it - the first subscription period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u79	Thank you. I beg you, Madam Secretary, for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I am a positive judge of the Republic's bond. The basic motivation that I had when I decided to run the bond of the Republic was that I thought that we were borrowing on financial markets as a state, and I thought that we would give Czech citizens the opportunity, but those small, small savers, small Czech households, so they could buy the bond of the Republic. We chose the Republic on purpose to simply honor the anniversary of the establishment of the Czechoslovak Republic - a hundred years, actually a hundred years since its creation. And I was surprised, of course, that first issue was very interested. We have set the conditions that the minimum amount was a thousand crowns, a million crowns, precisely to get the small savers there so that the Czech debt would simply be in Czech hands as much as possible, because Czech citizens are those who have a relationship with this country. When we borrow in financial markets, they're investors. It's just banks and so on. They are, they look only at the economic and financial aspect, but the Czech citizen has a relationship and sees it completely differently. So that was the reason. Now to the numbers. And I'm gonna keep doing that. First issue - I'll tell you the numbers right away. First, second issues, now we've spread it, we've... we've first started with a reinvestment bond, which means that - of course I was, like every good deed goes to punishment, but I've just gotten used to finding a few or many critics. I'm such a conservative person, careful. So I'm in the process of determining... I always set interest before every issue. And the interest on the reinvestment bond - that's my decision - I've set what we borrow on the financial markets. I wouldn't have been able to justify it if we'd put some extra money in here. So it was criticized that it was lower than inflation. It's moving around 2 percent. It's still more than the bank's gonna give you. And it's actually, the condition has been there for six years. And actually, the longer you have that bond in your hands, like you're gonna let it go for six years, you're actually gonna get the least interest, you can take it back every year. You can choose. So the sooner you choose it, the lower the interest. I'm trying to explain it half-pathically. And actually by -- now I've got the idea that I wanted to say, that's okay. I'll remember. Well, after the experience with the two emissions, we decided to make a form... I know what I was gonna say. Reinvestment means that actually after the year you can choose it, you get the interest that goes up, and it actually reinvests in your bond again. So that's how it's set. And now we have decided to do another one of these things that we have introduced anti-inflationary, that is, interest will depend on inflation. And we raised the limit, depending on the interest and average purchase, we raised the limit from one million to five million. And we'll keep going. So now, to the numbers. The first subscription period was from 3. 12. 2018 until 18 January 2019, with issue date 1. 2. 2019. It was purchased or issued for 2,9 billion crowns, so almost 3 billion. 6,420 subscribers, 1,008 electronically, averaged at 455,000. And the average age of those subscribers is 57.6 years. First of all, interest was through electronic access. Second subscription period from 21 January 2019 to 15. 3. 2019, with issue date 1. 4. 2019. There it was issued about 0.9 billion, or less than a billion. 1 977 subscribers, about the average of those 455 thousand per application and the average age is 55.9 years. So far, citizens have signed for about 4 billion. The share of savings government bonds, including the Republic's bond, means those that have been in the past, plus this one, makes... so far, it's 0.5 percent of the total government debt. I would like to reach at least 5% that it will be in the hands of Czech citizens. So I'm gonna keep doing this. Somehow time... we'll just keep making new and new emissions, and in absolute numbers it's CZK 9 billion. Thus, the continuous sale of government bonds continues, namely the third subscription period. That's what we wrote on March 18, 2019 until March 14th. 6. Date of issue 1. 7. 2019. [[Attention on time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u81	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u82	Thank you for your answer. I'm still interested in the rest of what you had prepared, because I'm known to invest in securities, and I'm interested in this issue. So please, can you tell me what you're ready for?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u83	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u84	So thank you, Madame. The third subscription period I described, there's news. The maximum amount of one order has risen, as I said, from one million to five million. So we picked up the top line. So we have two types of bonds - reinvestment and anti-inflationary. There, just as I explained, the minimum interest rate is guaranteed at 0.5 and the maturity of both bonds is six years. And the anti-inflationary bond can only be purchased through electronic access. Technically, there's no other way to do it with a property account. And it's possible, we've expanded the number of branches, the stone branches. So far, ČSOB is running it for us because it basically does it free of charge. She was the only bank that offered us this free of charge. So it's possible to get it at 47 branches. And like I said, I just... I'm gonna keep doing this. I'm not going to cut back on time. Obviously, the citizens thought for the first time, they were used to it being always limited in time, so the first issue, plus it was Christmas. We have issued beautiful gift certificates prepared by the State Cenin Printer. So someone could have just done it as a gift form. So the vánoce thing worked. And now, of course, the citizens have become accustomed to the fact that it will be continuous. They may also expect interest to rise in some way, but I'm still holding on to how much we borrow in the financial markets. And I will continue to do that, and I would like at least 5 percent, as I said, to have 5 percent of the national debt in the hands of Czech citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u85	Thank you, too. And before we proceed to the next interview, the Minister of Interior Jan Hamáček sent us an apology to the end of the day and also Mr Juříček from 16 o'clock for work reasons. So now, please, Mr Bartona, who will intersect the absent Minister Hamáček on the matter of queues at the post office. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u86	Thank you. Unfortunately, this information that has been given is unfavorable to me. There isn't really any of my seven government-to-four interviews. However, I would like to ask the Home Secretary. I would like to address you with an interview on the services of the Czech Post state enterprise. In the field of digitization, our state is on one of the lower rungs in international comparison. As far as the services of Czech Post are concerned, we can expect to spend time waiting in queues at post offices in the future. It is quite common that although the branch has more bulkheads and more workers are present, only a small number of bulkheads are opened and the waiting period exceeds an hour, during most of the day, not just at the top. Minister, in your opinion, what is the proportional time of waiting at the post office? Both carriers and some business chains pay customers financial compensation for disproportionate long waiting in queues. Don't you think the Czech Post should introduce a similar compensation model?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u87	Thank you. Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Since the Minister is excused, he will be answered in writing to the interview. The next in line is Mrs Věra Procházková with an interview with Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u88	Third time's a charm. I'm sorry that this question is followed by the economic question, because the first one would be better suited. It's about our country again, of course I'm interested. Madam Secretary, you presented the results of the new regulation in the Gambling Press Conference, and you also mentioned the information system in the area of gambling. I'd like you to explain to us here what the system specifically concerns, what it will bring us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u89	Thank you for the floor, honourable Member, for your intervention. I actually did, it was about two months ago, a press conference on gambling, to regulate, historically for the first time in the history of this country, so comprehensively adopted and prepared by the Ministry of Finance in the previous term, the gambling law and the gambling tax law. I symbolically organized the conference in a psychiatric hospital in Bohnice, in a building like that of a former theatre, there was a psychiatrist named Nešpor. It was very interesting, Deputy, I was with the Director General of Customs. And I said one thing. The effectiveness of this law is from 1 January 2017, these two important laws, and in that time, I dare say, the Czech Republic has ceased to be a casino in the heart of Europe. Just a few numbers. The number of establishments decreased in 2012, the number of gambling establishments was 7.5 thousand. In 2019, 1801. Number of automatic machines in 2012 74.5 thousand. In 2019 38 947. 457 municipalities have declared a global ban on gambling. 198 municipalities have a list of permitted places, which means they've said where only gambling can be. They were banished from the centers and from such busy places, from nearby schools. 65 municipalities list of prohibited places, such as the schools. And yet - the Ministry of Finance respects the Constitutional Court's finding, which says, respect the opinion of the municipality when issuing permits. That means, respect her decree. And yet in Prague, it's Prague 2, just for your information, where it's zero, it's just not there. I was projecting places where there was a game room downtown in 2015 as well. There's a library there today. There was a playroom, there's a shop here today, etc. The shift is huge. Huge. And it's really the result of the Ministry of Finance's work of the past period. We have also waged a fight against illegal gambling. We have given new competences to the Customs Administration, which can confiscate various quizomatas and similar ones that are issued by someone as a social game in pubs. He collects these quizomatas, confiscates them, closes illegal establishments, and another range of competences. We have tightened the conditions for operators and, of course, we have started to monitor, address online gambling. And of course, you asked that a very important remaining step was to build a relevant IT system, including a register of excluded players. I am glad that I managed to complete the tender in the spring, which had ended two years before in the last parliamentary term. The contract was canceled, we managed to compete. Today we are in a phase where we signed a contract sometime in April last year and the system is being built. For one thing, it will be a register of excluded players who will prevent the recipients of benefits in material distress, debtors in bankruptcy, gamblers with a restraining order or a protective treatment of addiction, as well as pathological players who request registration themselves. This information system will facilitate communication between state institutions involved in tax administration or exercising competence in the field of gambling. That's very important. Because, as Dr Nešpor said, and of course, we have various analyses when the legislation was adjusted, so gambling, of course, brings a pathological player into disaster, but there, we have to say, he brought it out of his own fault, but with him he withdrew a whole series of innocents, his family, his children, his partner, and that is what is the greatest tragedy about all of this. As I said, we managed to compete, the winning offer was submitted by CCA Group. It will cost 61 663 536 including VAT. The individual parts of the system will be under way, the contract signed, as I said, since spring last year. They will start gradually at the turn of 2019 and 20, and subsequently in 2020. [[Attention on time.]] Well, if I get another chance, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u90	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u91	I'd like you to finish your story. It's very interesting to me. Of course, each of us has someone like that around us. And most of all, I'm a doctor and, of course, the health consequences and the breakdown of families, etc. How many times do we have to deal with ambulances? So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u92	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u93	Thank you, Madame. I would also like to say that in force, and it was also quite difficult, even if it was a decree, because it had to be notified, and it is always quite a complex process, a decree has entered into force which sets out the way to notify and send information to the gambling operator, the extent of data transfer and technical parameters of transmission, on which they have been worked for several years, and it will allow the collection of gaming and financial data from the gambling operator. The output will then be reports and analyses needed to exercise supervision and control over gambling. The purpose of the Decree is, in particular, to unify the fragmented practices of individual operators and ensure that all relevant data are recorded, transmitted to the competent administrative authorities. So basically we want to make a cross-section and have an idea of how it actually works and have an idea of the basic data that we will then use for proper supervision in this area. The decree was notified by the European Commission without any comments 11. 12. 2018. So it took several years for us to succeed. Operators must register before 2 May 2019 and the effectiveness of the decree will occur on 1 June 2019. Compared to the original plan, we extended the legisvacation period by two months. But the basic parameters were known since September 2018, so the operators had enough time to prepare, and of course we provide as Ministry of Finance above-standard support by doing, we have already organized two workshops, we provide general information, we have helpdesk, web application, playground, reference client etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u94	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová with an interview with Minister Jan Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u95	Dear Minister, as of 15 May, the Czech Government should receive a report on the European Commission's extensive audit to investigate the possible conflict of interests of Prime Minister Babiš. I would like to ask you to press for the publication of this report before the elections to the European Parliament. In my opinion, the Czech public should get acquainted with this report. However, in order to hold the elections, I am concerned that there should be no attempt to prevent the publication of the report before the elections. Dear Minister, will you publish this report to the Czech public as soon as the government receives it? How do you feel about that? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u96	Thank you. As the Minister is not present, he will be answered in writing to your interview. The next in line is Mr Černohorský for Minister Marta Nováková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u97	Thank you for the floor. Since the secretary isn't here and the answer will come in 30 days, I don't know if the new minister will know what the secretary was doing. But I will repeat my question, which I have also asked the Prime Minister. In its resolution of 25 October 2018, the Chamber of Deputies called on the Government of the Czech Republic to defend the interests of the Czech Republic with maximum commitment to the European Commission, taking into account the specific interests of employees of ArcelorMittal Ostrava, so as to sell the hut into the hands of a candidate who will ensure the sustainable development of Ostrava's hut, and thus of the entire region, as well as to require the government to ask candidates to purchase ArcelorMittal Ostrava to submit a concrete plan and commitment to invest in this hut. On the basis of this resolution, you, Madam Secretary, may also be answered by the future Minister, which steps have been taken since the above resolution was adopted by the Ministry in relation to the European Commission in order to defend the interests of the Czech Republic and the employees of the company in selling the hut. [[I'm asking.]] What was the possible development of the negotiations and therefore submitted a specific plan and commitment of investments for the future? If so, where can we find this information on the Ministry's website? And what steps will the Ministry possibly plan for the future in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u98	Thank you. As the Minister is not present, he will be answered in writing for an interview. The next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová on behalf of Minister Antonín Staněk. Please, madam, you have the floor. Before I give it to you, I'll read an apology. Mr Roman Kubíček apologizes today between 4:30 and 18:00 on account of his work. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u99	Thank you. Minister, I would like to ask you how the Ministry of Culture decides which building is declared a cultural monument and which is not. According to some information, this decision is concentrated in the hands of one person, and it is also swamped by this work and has not been able to do so. Even if she could make it, I'd still consider it scandalous. I'm asking you about the background of the Transgas demolition. So, Minister, I ask you, how does your ministry decide on a statement for a cultural monument? Who or what department of the Ministry is doing this? Does the weight of decision-making really lie with one person? I would therefore ask you to clarify this information. Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u100	Thank you. As the Minister is not present, he will be answered in writing to the interview. Next in line is Mr Lukáš Bartoň with an interview with Minister Robert Plaga. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u101	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I would like to know your opinion on the introduction of compulsory pre-school education, or on the effects resulting from this legislative regulation. One of the main objectives of this legislative regulation was to strengthen the participation of children from a socially and economically disadvantaged environment in pre-school education. The thematic report of the Czech School Inspectorate shows that this objective has not been achieved. On the contrary, the report by the Czech School Inspectorate points out that this legislative regulation has brought a number of problems. In particular, the increase in administration for school workers, the organisation of enrollments, the monitoring of children living in sluggish areas, the monitoring of attendance, the enforcement of regular attendance, the justification of absences and the like. What steps does the Ministry of Education intend to take in this regard? Do you not think it would be appropriate to apply more effective and, above all, properly targeted measures instead of area access?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u102	Thank you. Once again, since the Minister is not present, he will be answered in writing for an interview. Mr. Lukáš Černohorský is next in line for Minister Jan Hamáček. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u103	Thank you for the floor. Therefore, municipalities can only regulate the time of night rest by means of a generally binding decree. The disturbance of night rest must be approved in advance by the municipal council and determined by a generally binding decree. The municipality therefore decides on exceptional cases and defines them in several ways in the decree. Specifically, a date, a dating period or event whose date is predictable due to local traditions. Within the city of Ostrava, however, the mayors of the local part encounter the problem that the city council rejects some of the events that are already traditional in the district - the firefighter's ball, the football ball and so on. They will include them in the general decree that the Ministry of the Interior might cancel the decree on the ground that there are too many events. Unfortunately, this cautious approach leads to the disruption of very good community relations, as local associations must limit their activities in the context of the organisation of night-time events. I therefore ask whether there is any methodology according to which the officials of the Ministry of the Interior advance whether there are too many events in the decree. If not, if you prepare any such methodology, so that the council, I speak specifically to the statutory city of Ostrava, did not eliminate the actions of the city parts just because they could be too many. So I note that some of the city's parts, for example, of Ostrava, are very far apart here and that the impact of these local events does not have an impact outside of this part of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u104	Thank you. Once again, it will be answered in writing to this interpelation. Please, another interview for the absent minister Richard Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u105	So thank you again for the floor. For the time being, the Ministry of Environment has maintained EKO-KOM's monopoly on packaging waste management in the Czech Republic, although companies such as EKOVEDIC, REMA and EKO-DUAL would also like to organise collection of sorted waste. In an expert publication of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Economics in Prague published in 2016, entitled Economic and Political Convention for the Application of Administrative Monopoly in the Management of Packaging Wastes in the Czech Republic, the authors state that the existence of a similar monopoly leads to inefficiency and inevitable distortion of the market. The situation ultimately adversely affects final consumers. It can therefore be changed by leaning towards market liberalisation, just as it has succeeded in other sectors - network sectors, railway infrastructure and so on - which has been monopolized in the past. This conclusion was also supported by the opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition as the Czech highest competition authority. Neighboring Germany can also serve us for comparison. While costs are increasing continuously in the Czech Republic, we have seen a significant downward trend in Germany since 2002. In the Czech Republic, costs continued to increase by increasing waste production until 2007, but from this year onwards, the amount of waste produced remained at about the same level, while the costs continued to increase. In Germany, it can be clearly observed that costs have fallen in the context of increasing waste production. The comparison of the trend between Germany and the Czech Republic shows that the competitive system leads to more cost-effective developments than monopolistic developments over a longer period of time. I therefore ask why the Ministry continues to maintain EKO-KOM's monopoly on packaging waste management in the Czech Republic. Did the Ministry of the Environment process an independent expert analysis that legitimizes its position? If so, if it is possible to send it as part of this reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u106	Thank you. It will also be answered in writing. The next is Mrs Věra Kovářová on behalf of Minister Jana Maláčová. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u107	Madam Secretary, mothers with oncologically ill children are currently encountering difficulties in obtaining care allowance. The fate of an oncologically ill child is a terrible and sad event in the life of the child and his parents. Parents often cannot go to work, spend considerable resources and time on demanding treatment, trying to be with their child as much as possible. This puts them in an awkward life situation. When parents ask for a care allowance, they often fail. The problem is probably in different interpretations. Somebody gets a donation and somebody doesn't. And the problem may also lie in opinions that say from the table that the child after chemotherapy is self-sufficient. However, doctors do not agree with this claim, and they want to change it. A petition has also been made for this purpose. Madam Secretary, don't you think parents deserve help from the state in such a situation? What is your view of this problem? Will you initiate changes that will at least make their suffering easier for parents in this aspect? Or is this problem already being solved? If so, how? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u108	Thank you. Once again, it will be answered in writing to this interpellation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The words will be taken by Mr Lukáš Bartoň with an interview with Minister Jan Hamáček. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u109	Thank you. My next interpelation concerns gambling. There has already been an interpelation about gambling, in which Minister Schillerová answered the question of Mrs Procházková. It's a škoda they didn't stay into this interpelation, even though they knew her topic in advance. We have heard about the fight against gambling, but the state enterprise directly supports gambling. If a person comes to the counter at the post office, i.e. to a state enterprise in the gesture of the Ministry of the Interior, he often finds a post office worker literally lined up with a large number of colorful scratches. And even if he doesn't want to pick up just a shipment, he's asked directly by the worker if he wants to buy a ticket. Minister, do you consider scratch tickets to be appropriate in the supplementary mail sales? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u110	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And again, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, with an interview with Minister Marta Nováková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u111	Thank you. Dear Minister - or Minister - depends on the time when someone will read this - has the Ministry of Industry dealt with the opportunities for industrial development if all kinds of cannabis, not only cultivation but also processing and trading in the Czech Republic, are fully legalized? If we were the first in Europe, we would attract industry with this connected - not only pharmaceutical, but especially cosmetic and others. My guess would be billions. Do you have any analysis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u112	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And last interview - Mr Lukáš Černohorský to Mr Jan Hamáček's absent minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u113	Thank you for the floor. The long-term lack of police officers in the capital of Prague and the Central Bohemia Region results in police officers from the Moravian-Silesian Region serving here. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of the Interior how the Ministry intends to address the ongoing problem of the lack of police officers in Prague and the Central Bohemia Region, what steps he has taken to do this, how long police officers from the outermost region will still have to commute to Prague and whether these police officers, in my opinion, are being paid extraordinarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-18-ps2017-028-03-017-218.u114	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am of the opinion that we have closed the oral questioning for today's meeting. I wish you all a nice Easter. I'm ending today's meeting and we'll continue on Tuesday 23. 4th paragraph of the property settlement. Goodbye.
