ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u1	6. Government draft law on real estate intermediation and amendment of Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business (business law), as amended (Act on real estate mediation) /house print 391/ - second reading We interrupted this item on 27 September at the 34th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the general debate. I would remind you that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 391/1 to 6. I ask that the Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Economic Committee, Mr Patrik Nacher, take the position at the rapporteur's table. Member Patrik Nacher, yes - if you can take the position of rapporteur. Yes. So now we will continue the interrupted general debate and Mr Vojtěch Munzar's speech has been suspended, so I will ask him to finish his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u2	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I didn't even get to open my performance last time, so I'm gonna introduce you to the whole thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u3	I will ask you to remain calm so that Mr Munzar can speak freely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u4	I was already thinking about the purpose of this law at first reading. This law is an example for me that instead of defining the basic frameworks of our behavior, they are often becoming technical manuals. Technical manuals, which at all costs try to determine how one should behave and limit the scope for the free will of citizens. They bring and encourage formalism in our society, which is often intended to replace real professionalism and the opportunity to react flexibly to the many situations that life brings. They bring not only formalism but also artificial qualifications. But this does not lead to an increase in solidity, honesty and the real, not artificial professionalism. There's no law to force it. Such laws only lead to increasing the number of certificates on walls and handing out artificial titles without real knowledge. This approach leads to restrictions on the free will of citizens, to the destruction of their own responsibility and to the planned creation of society, that the state should be the guarantor of everything for citizens, always and everywhere and for personal failure or bad decision of an individual can actually stand, because it has not sufficiently protected its citizens from themselves. There is a claim society that is entitled to solve all problems for people, but it creates a situation that the state often makes people into small children, which they have to lead at all costs. And I think this law, the law on real estate mediation, is an example of such an approach. The law will not ensure solidarity and professionalism, but will lead to restrictions on the entry of new brokers into the market, and this exclusiveness and reduction of competition together with new costs will lead to an increase in real estate services. With this law, we have precisely three of the following basic problems: increasing real estate services for end consumers, transferring liability for property status from the owner, the seller, the intermediary and reducing competition in real estate services. I'll put it in more detail. Reduction of competition in real estate services. In my opinion, it is an effort to otherwise disparage and redistribute the margins that are currently on the market and to make it difficult for new real estate brokers to enter. This is also mentioned in the Government's proposal itself, in the explanatory report, where it is specifically said that the number of real estate transactions is falling and professional and long-term real estate agencies have to deal with competition between smaller or new, which are called unprofessional. In my opinion, this is one of the real reasons for introducing the law - exclusivity and restricting competition by administrative means and by law. So not real consumer protection, but rather market protection. Second, transferring responsibility from who owns the property, that is, from the owner, from the seller knows it, to the broker. And this leads to the magical wording in the proposal that the real estate agent should have known about the defects due to his professional competence, as foreseen in Section 12. However, the broker is not to be responsible for the hidden defects of the property, but he is to be responsible for the one who knows the property and who sells it, which on the purchase contract is like a seller. [[15.10 hours]] And third of all, the cost of real estate services. Definitely, insurance will increase the cost of real estate services, and this will make the acquisition of property housing more expensive in itself. Several times here, colleagues, we talked about how expensive apartments are. We have a tax on the acquisition of property that makes the acquisition of our own housing more expensive. The tax package will be discussed in the third reading, where the government proposes to increase the proposal for a deposit in the cadastral and similar, which will in turn burden buyers with additional and other costs of acquiring their own property. And this insurance, which will not be paid by brokers themselves. They'll transfer it to the end consumer. So this proposal assumes that the annual costs of almost CZK 400 million, in addition to CZK 100 million in the first year, will be transferred to the final consumer. The question is whether this is really the right consumer protection. The law itself brings new inequality and injustice. For example, I see the very injustice of who can become a simpler and more complex real estate agent. Whoever goes to university in marketing, an economics field focused on marketing, can become a broker according to the bill. Those who graduate from the construction high school must have practice or exams. I asked an interesting question when negotiating with the representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development, whether the person managing the property, whether the property management will be taken as some practice under this law. The answer was yes. My second question to the representative of the Ministry was whether such practice is thus also the chairman of the community of owners of units. And there, two representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development disagreed with each other. So it also shows inequality that someone can become lighter and someone worse a real estate agent. The other injustice I see in this law is in the insurance itself. According to the explanatory memorandum, the members of the Association of Real Estate Agencies are all insured, with a limit of CZK 500,000. And the report states that during the period when the insurance events of real estate brokers are recorded by the Association of Real Estate Agencies, there was no case where the amount of the transactions would exceed CZK 100,000. However, in the draft law, at least 1,750 000 are proposed as compulsory insurance for brokers, although there was no case where the amount of the performance would exceed CZK 100 000. So, from my point of view, it's this thing that's clearly going to cost the services of real estate brokers, so it's just about delivering the feeling that the real estate agent is insured. But is this really what protects the consumer? Does the consumer want to be insured by the broker or his business? If you look at the amount of 1,750,000, you will find that the proposed 1,750,000 in Prague is literally undersized for almost any trade in the capital city of Prague and is not protected by the consumer's trade. On the contrary, in Ústí nad Labem, for example, this is unnecessarily oversized and will, in turn, be unnecessarily passed on to the consumer's costs. So, from my point of view, that's another inequality that the law brings. I have one thing to appreciate in that law. The only meaningful thing and real consumer protection is to separate clients' money from real estate companies' operating resources. But that is not easy, the debate shows, for example, in the constitutional-legal committee. But in my opinion, we do not need a special law to determine other forms of contracts and other matters. It would be enough to add this matter to the existing laws and not add another thirty thousand legislative standards that we have. For the reasons set out above, from what I've told you, I'm making a motion to dismiss the law at third reading. Because, of course, the House is somehow spread out, and somehow it's going to be voted on, so I want to at least try to correct some of the things in that law that don't seem to me and that I've listed here. That is why I am coming up with two amendments. One amendment concerns responsibility. It really bothers me that it says in the law that some real estate broker should have known about some glitches when he didn't own the property. That is why I am trying to correct this with one amendment so that the real estate broker has to supply the consumer with all the information that comes from the public lists, from publicly available data, but not to be responsible for hidden property defects. Because if we leave the existing wording in the law, I'm really worried about the number of lawsuits where they're gonna throw liability from one to the other, when the owner's gonna throw responsibility over to the real estate broker and the like. So this is one of the amendments that I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. The second amendment concerns insurance. I really don't think it's necessary for every realtor to be insured, but for the business to be insured. If there is this practice which in the Czech Republic is that many real estate brokers work on franchise and cooperate with some established real estate agency, it is not necessary that both the real estate agency and the real estate broker are insured at the same time. That's where the insurance costs are being dubbed, and it's costing the whole thing for nothing. That is why I have prepared an amendment that should address this and which says in other words that if a business is insured by a real estate agency, the broker does not have to have insurance in itself. All we have to do is secure the store with insurance. Based on this, I met with representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development. I'd like to thank the Minister for the helpfulness of her people. We discussed this, and in the end, there was a second option to this proposal of mine, which, let's say, is a compromise between what I say means that only the trade should be insured, and what the Ministry says should be insured by every broker. It resulted in a compromise proposal that for those franchising agents, real estate brokers who work for some real estate agency, it would be 50 percent insurance. I take that as a compromise proposal, which I have read, or I want to read as variant number two to my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u5	Then I'll pass the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u6	Good afternoon. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura will now appear. Before I give him my word, Ms. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes from 14.30 for work reasons. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at first reading, this amendment on real estate mediation is beating the eyes of the undiscovered defending the quite obvious interest of a part of real estate companies and trying to damage the rest. The proposed amendment to the Act makes it quite clear that competition on the market will be reduced by bringing about the existing situation. Those who work in the business don't really have to worry about change. But the amendment makes it difficult to access the market to new applicants for a real estate agent's job. The requirement for higher education, plus three years of practice or retraining course completed by the exam will lead to the avoidance of new people entering this business, which means that real estate brokers will remain existing brokers, for whom real estate brokers are sufficient for a longer period of time, regardless of their quality. Today it is obvious which companies seem to lobby for change. These are foreign companies that work in the Czech Republic on the principle of franchise. Their brokers in small towns and regions threaten small local real estate agencies, and therefore they need to be kept out of their way to maximum market entry. They are also bothered by large Czech companies, which, of course, do not work on the principle of franchise, but have standard employees. While small district real estate agencies are trying to limit the government by clearly meaningless qualification restrictions, in the case of large Czech companies they are going through the so-called safekeeping, which the law forbids real estate agencies. Franchise companies usually prefer to entrust it to notaries over the long term, because their branches are actually hard to control companies from the center, and the parent company does not want to guarantee the money that their franchise branches hold in their hands. The other way around is Czech companies that have their own employees. The money entrusted to clients is guaranteed for safekeeping. The fact that they manage them has several advantages. It's cheaper than notary or barracks. And it is, of course, less bureaucratically demanding. And, of course, it speeds up their work and business. All of this, of course, is for the benefit of the client. [[15.20 hours]] Of course, there is certainly an influential lobby by notaries and lawyers. It's not about small money. It is estimated to be more than two billion crowns. Real estate is usually free of charge. Lawyer, notary or bank account is charged. And they're not small sums. Real estate storage is bureaucratically less demanding and business faster. Everything is solved by one subject who knows the whole process. The argument that lawyers are more credible entities in order to store purchase prices will not stand. In history, we see a number of cases where attorneys and notaries embezzled funds. In addition, in addition to real estate agencies on the market, many other companies operate in other fields, whose activities also logically include the management of large financial sums of clients, including developers, but also other entities. Last but not least, the client has the right to decide for himself who he entrusts his money to, this is not for the state to decide for him. The proposal also introduces compulsory insurance for real estate brokers to cover the potential damage that may arise from the work of the broker. That is certainly a commendable purpose. On the other hand, let us also take a look from that side that it is another nail in the coffin of new real estate brokers who, apart from professional competence, will have to pay for this insurance when entering this business. It's all gonna cost a lot, not a lot. For this reason, a number of applicants will change their minds and simply give up, and there is also a risk of cost increases for clients. Instead of working actively, earning and paying taxes, new candidates for the real estate agent's work will be existentially dependent on the state. Ladies and gentlemen, you'll find these are the details. A few extra grand, a few extra papers, a few hours' work, and a few more lost days won't kill anyone. A hundred times nothing killed a donkey, they say. And the truth is, even the great world revolutions have led to seemingly petty causes. The point is that the system proposed by the government adds red tape. Even after small doses, but one day one such step will become the one with which the proverbial pitcher will flow. We in the SPD want to support the economy, and this certainly includes the construction and real estate market. The figures show that this year it dropped by an average of one fifth. Construction and its connected market are the target of perhaps thousands of complicated regulations. While in the Czech Republic it is necessary to do about 21 tasks in order to obtain a building permit, e.g. in Russia, these are actions 2. For residential projects, number 21 is even increasing. As we know, we also have an annual increase in the total taxation quota due to the government. There are bureaucratic restrictions on all sides. It increases the cost of government, makes it more expensive and complicates the lives of companies, businessmen and citizens. This law clearly aims again to further increase the lives of citizens and companies and to complicate the work of entrepreneurs and companies. He draws unnecessary extra money out of citizens' pockets, and completely senselessly gives selected one group, which already has a monopoly in many areas, i.e. notaries. I don't understand what real estate and construction companies, what citizens who want to buy an apartment or a house have done to this government, that they have to suffocate them over and over again with bullying and new charges, and I miss what such glowing notaries have brought to the government, who will get a few billion extra in the administration for absolutely nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, think of those who vote for you, think of yourselves. Do we really want to make people's lives more expensive forever and complicate our lives in this country? Isn't our job the exact opposite? For the SPD movement, I say that in a comprehensive assessment of this government bill, we have come to the conclusion that we will be against this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u8	Thank you. That was Vice-President Tomio Okamura. We are in the general debate and I am reporting to the general debate. If no one's checking in, I'm the last logged in so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u9	So I'm begging Mr. Vice-President Filip. And Mr Nacher has a point of fact. Please, he's first. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u10	Thank you for your word. Then I'll tell the details at the third reading, but some things would be worth explaining so they don't spread. First of all, the initial vision of the law was nine years ago, which means it's not some new thing we'd come up with. Secondly, I am the first one against administration, unnecessary bureaucracy, etc., but here we have to realise that consumer protection needs to be highlighted, and it concerns trades that the consumer is experiencing twice a year, i.e. maybe it's more important than one piece of paper to make sure he doesn't lose his money. It needs to be said that it's not a business that happens every month, and if we burden him... Thirdly, from the speech made by Vice-President Okamura, I understood that he had not seen the amendment which was passed by the constitutionally-legal committee, which answers the things he mentioned. Because when we heard Mr. Munzar's speech and Mr. Okamura's speech, they contradict each other, one wouldn't want the safekeeping at all, the other would. And that's where the truth is somewhere in the middle, that is. how to protect the money of those people who sell real estate, to separate them at the same time. And that's all covered by the amendment. This means that the competition will be preserved there, but at the same time, the fact that the real estate agent, by being directly dependent on the trade, has to be ensured in some way that the money is separated from his other money, such as operating money. So all of this, including insurance, education, solves and complements the comprehensive amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u11	Thank you. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please. No, I'm sorry, I just got one more point in fact. But after the Vice-President, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u12	Thank you. I will not be long, but don't be mad at me, I disagree with Mr Munzar's quasisocial speech, my fellow Members, because I consider this insurance to be one of the key steps. And separation of money for the second crucial step. I could quote here from the things I get on my desk. The family from Mladá Boleslav bought a house in the south of Bohemia, there was a large real estate agency REMAX and there is a Hypoteční banka in it to understand each other. And I think they're companies that shouldn't have a problem with that. And yet there is. The seller didn't pay, he sold it, the new buyers bought it, and suddenly they're supposed to pay for the seller's debts because it wasn't treated. That's the crucial thing about the realtor. And if she's not insured against it or she's made the insurance cheaper and then she's arguing about who's gonna pay for it, well, don't be mad at me, that's beyond what's possible. So if we're doing this for these people - it's not a law for real estate agencies, it's not a law for banks, it's a law for citizens of the Czech Republic. The law is meant to be used to make sure that a citizen, a consumer, has some sort of certainty in the store that if he turns to a professional office, that he does it professionally, not that he's going to pay for someone, because someone has messed up -- sorry, I'm sorry about the expression, but that's how it is. So I'm sorry, but here it's not social measures and market restrictions and some sort of recording to a few big real estate agencies. It's about if we're able to look people in the eye afterwards, if the law really matches that if I turn to the real estate agency, he'll do it for me by not paying someone else's debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u13	Now I have three factual points here, so first I will ask Mr Dominik Feri to speak, Mr Dolínek and Mr Munzar will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I have been saying from the beginning of this proposal in the House that if there were one thing left of this proposal, and that is some regulation and the setting of clear rules for the provision of safekeeping, the rest of the law might not be here. If one of my colleagues reads that there will be safekeeping and the rest will be cancelled, I will be very happy to support it. Because it's the key thing. The storage is the node point of the entire transaction. That's where the big money is. It's the biggest disposition with money in the life of the vast majority of people. That you buy, that you save and save for an apartment, for a house that you then buy. And that should be regulated, where clear rules should be set. When it comes to the fact that we are regulating the market significantly in some way, it is simply not the current Klondike where everyone can do what they want, so it is unsatisfactory. And when you compare the mass of consumer law in other areas, which I find absolutely often pointless, we have something here where transactions are made to a billion-dollar market, which is absolutely unregulated, and against it small sectors, which are regulated very strictly. That means, let's just take everything out except for the safekeeping, let's leave them there, and I'll be perfectly satisfied, and it'll make the situation very better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u15	Mr Petr Dolínek, with a factual remark, will now be prepared by Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u16	Thank you. I have to say, if it's just safekeeping, it's basically bullying one part of the market. At this point, I said it last time, when we were discussing it, it's time to take a look at the barracks. I still don't understand how lawyers can accept money in cash. I think that lawyers should also adapt to this law for the future, and all safekeeping should be cash-free. That's the only measure we have to settle the market for everyone, whether it's a notary, a bank, an attorney, or a real estate agency. I hope that we will adopt this principle here, and then I will agree with the argument that has been made in part that it is important to set the rules. Second thing. I think the insurance's in place right now. As a client who buys real estate, I don't choose a real estate agency. It's intended for me to sell. It's not my duty to walk around the register and see if the person or the company is a franchise, it's not the franchise, who's insured, it's not the insurance. I, in good faith, live in Prague 6, so I buy property for my family's housing in the range of 5 million to 30 million in the case of Prague 6. Under $5 million, maybe I'll buy a studio there. And I don't want to have to worry about insurance. I want to know that it's all done by law. So I am in favour, and it is also my amendment, which I will apply to in a moment, so that even the insurance is increased so that the amount is actually adequate to the trades that are already happening in the business at this time. I understand it's not comfortable for everyone, but when I'm in business, I have my own costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u17	I will now ask for Mr Vojtěch Munzar's speech and also prepare myself with a factual remark by Minister Klára Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u18	Thank you. I will respond to President Filip and Mr Dolínek through you regarding the insurance. I've been giving examples here that the explanatory report itself gives. And I agree that I think, and I said it here, that he should, if I want to be insured as a consumer, I want my business insured, not an insured broker. However, the way the law is conceived, it actually does the thing that has to be insured by a broker. And then the insurance policies and the costs of those insurance policies that will ultimately be passed on to the final consumer are being dubbed. That is why I have tabled or tabled an amendment here, and that was the point of the speech. On the other hand, I must say that to set some framework of 1,750 000 today, as proposed in the law, I again insist that it is explicitly undersized for the environment of Prague and real estate shops in Prague. And if someone is shielding themselves from consumer protection, the consumer is not protected by this insurance. On the other hand, somewhere really in another region, especially in the Ústí nad Labem region, it is oversized again, and the costs for the broker are being overexpensive and the prices of real estate services for the others will be overexpensive. That's why I think the law itself creates inequality. And I'm really surprised by what's in the explanatory memorandum that those insurance policies that work today, and that's where the Real Estate Association is named, and there's an insurance of 500,000, that the explanatory memorandum doesn't show that there's a higher performance from that policy than 100,000. So this is where the cargo is artificially increased, the insurance is artificially increased, but today we know it hasn't been used. So from my point of view, it's more about feeling than real fact today, as I read the reason message. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u19	I will now request a speech to the de facto Minister, Klára Dostálová, and Mr Dominik Feri will be prepared. Still factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u20	Thank you. I just want to make two quick notes. It really needs to be realized that this law is meant to protect consumers. How many stores does each of you make in your life? One, two tops. That means it's not really possible for a citizen to have everything studied. Therefore, real estate brokers themselves have been calling for this legislation for years flying to give clear rules and relationships between the buyer, the seller, the relationship to the realtor as such and to set the same rules of the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u21	I will now ask Mr Dominik Feri to speak and prepare for Mr Tomáš Kohoutek's factual remarks. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think my colleague Dolínek will forgive me through the President, but I am a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee and we have been experiencing constant attacks on lawyers or legal secrets here for two years, but also other legal professions, of course. And the diction: let's look at lawyers who take money in cash - so that's really speculative, well, there's something. Lawyers are bound by very strict rules. For example, the law on limitation of cash payments, where the maximum limit of 270 thousand must enter safekeeping in the e-book and at the same time those checks are really very strict and lawyers generally do not accept cash payments very much. And a property worth 270 grand, well, in the north of Bohemia maybe something, Varnsdorf, exactly like that, without wanting to define myself in any way towards Varnsdorf, but I really don't think that's something we should look at so-called. It's just safe deposit. And making the impression here that lawyers are taking big money in big bags isn't at all right in light of what we've been through here with attacks on attorney's secrets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u23	Mr Tomáš Kohoutek's final point of view so far. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u24	Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues. I would express myself, virtually. I would continue and follow up on the words of my colleague Dominik Feri. I would like to say to Mr Munzar through Mr President, as well as to others, those who oppose this law: Do you remember the 1990s? Do you remember travel agencies Travela, East West Travel, Prok (?) And dozens of small travel agencies, when ordinary simple people were unhappy that their travel agency crashed and lost a few tens of thousands in order? And no one today feels abnormal that every travel agency must have a concession, they must have insurance, and we are talking about the services of tens of thousands of crowns, tops of hundreds of thousands of crowns. There are millions in the real estate market, tens of millions, and would you still like to have it, that it is a free trade, when the trade licence gets anyone who comes and pays a thousand crowns at the trade office, without insurance? I really think real estate insurance and safekeeping are the basis and it is the standard everywhere in Western Europe. To my colleague Dolínek through Mr President. I was an attorney, I'm a notary today. I never took money in cash or as a lawyer, notaries can't take money in cash at all, attorneys have an advantage in this, but it's only up to CZK 270,000. And I really have dozens of friends, colleagues, friends in law enforcement, and none of them are suicidal and crazy to come home from his office knowing he's got hundreds of thousands of dollars in his safe somewhere in a stranger's safe. All the lawyers I know when they're in law enforcement, they've got it in their accounts, 'cause they want to sleep in peace, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u25	Now I don't see anyone in the general debate that he's interested. Not even a de facto one. So I'll just read an apology in case anyone changes their mind. Between 15.30 and 19.00, Mr. Jiří Bláha apologizes for reasons of work. So I will now end the general debate and ask whether there is an interest in final words. Madam Secretary, are you interested in the final word? Mr Patrik Nacher is also not interested in the final word. So I'm initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Adam Kalous came forward first and Mr Petr Dolínek was prepared. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would therefore like to sign up for my written amendment, House document number 3476. My amendment concerns the possibility of obtaining a trade licence for the activity of a Bachelor's Graduate real estate agent in fields other than those referred to in point (a) and with a shorter period of practice than that referred to in point (c) and appropriately complements the range of options for obtaining a trade licence for the real estate agent's activities. An example of such a course with a focus on real estate that would meet that definition is the MBA programme, which is organized by the Department of Finance and Valuation at the Faculty of Finance and Accounting of the University of Economics in Prague, where this programme combines both economic, legal and technical views of the real estate market in local and international contexts and is operated by leading experts in the real estate market, as well as academic experts. By the way, the Government's proposal for an amendment to this law as a whole is assessed very positively at this faculty, and therefore I cannot agree with the arguments made by Vice-President Okamura and Mr Munzar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u27	Mr Petr Dolínek will now appear and Mr Milan Pour will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u28	Thank you. I have justified the proposals on an extensive basis in the discussion on the last day of the last Chamber of Deputies, which is why I am now merely applying telegraphically to the draft press of 3367 concerning insurance, 3366 concerning the notice period for contracts, where the protection of the real estate agency versus developer goes in large contracts so that it is not just a month. [[document]] It is considered, try asking for your surroundings to evaluate the difference between the classic consumer and the relationship between the big developer and the real estate agency. I think it's time for everyone to think about it. And the last is education, Amendment 3365, with the fact that education, we see, there are more variations and it is more about finding consensus, too, so that, as someone has said very well here, we do not close the market for new potential realtors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u29	I will now ask Mr Milan Pour to speak and Mr Jan Zahradník will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said in the general debate, I now refer to my amendment, which is listed as the House document under number 2825. This amendment concerns the amount of the deposit, when I propose that real estate intermediaries in the context of the intermediary activity be entitled to provide the deposit of the part only up to CZK 890 thousand in order to ensure the performance of the real estate contract. In the event of a sum of more than CZK 890,000, the real estate agent could only provide custody of notaries, lawyers, banks and foreign banks. I gave detailed reasons in the general debate and it is also mentioned in writing in my proposal, which is read in the House system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u31	I will now ask for Mr Jan Zahradník's speech and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u32	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to apply to my amendment, which I tabled here and justified in the general debate and which has the number of House document 3203. The proposal concerns, on the one hand, the cancellation of Section 4, which prohibits the offer of the deposit of money, then the adjustment of the amount of the premiums. Furthermore, it seeks to correct a certain confusion that arises in the use of the word "interester" as for the one who comes to the real estate broker with his real estate and enters into a real estate contract with him for the sale, even for the one who, on the basis of the offer, then comes and becomes simply a customer in this business transaction, and then, last but not least, my proposal proposes to move the effectiveness of this law from 2020 to 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u33	I will now request the speech of Mr Vojtěch Munzar and Mr Dominik Feri will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I will repeat what I said in the general debate just in case. That means I made a motion to dismiss this law at third reading. At the same time, I want to sign up for two amendments. One is led under number 3423, that is to alleviate the liability of the intermediary for hidden defects that he could not have known about. And the second amendment, which is in two variants, under number 3538, concerns the insurance concerned; As I said, my original proposal contains two options - and then, in the alternative, two compromise proposals with the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u35	And as the last one, I will now ask for Mr Dominik Feri's speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for House document 2348. This is an amendment which has already been introduced here in the general debate. For refreshment, he limits the provision of custody only to lawyers, notaries, banks and foreign banks. I've been talking about three ways of asking for safekeeping, editing the safekeeping. That means either maintaining the current state of affairs, inconvenient in my opinion, or adjusting it in some way appropriately, allowing the real estate brokers to do it, but following the rules. Then there is the third option, the most strict option, to leave it only to those qualified entities that provide safekeeping at a high level today. And in the third reading we can choose the option that gets the biggest support, it can certainly be taken into account in the procedure. We have not been able to agree on this on the constitutionally-legal committee, which has the greatest support, and the constitutionally-legal committee is quite specific in terms of composition. So there are three ways we're going to choose from. House print 2348. [[document]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-16-ps2017-035-02-014-006.u37	Thank you. [[Member Feri: Documentary.]] Thank you. So I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask again if there is interest in final words. Madam Secretary? Mr Patrik Nacher? No interest, so I finish second reading of this proposal. Otherwise, just for the record, as far as the Prime Minister's apology is concerned, the Prime Minister didn't say when he'd be excused. Just make sure it's on the record. Now we're opening another point.
