ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u1	297. Proposal for a law amending certain tax laws in connection with the increase in the revenue of public budgets / House press 509/5/ - returned to the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 509/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Vladislav Vilímca among us and ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová speak first for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. [[Sitting at the newsstand]] I will ask you in the Chamber, honourable Members, for peace. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u2	Not yet, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u3	Sorry, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u4	What's not, maybe one day. Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly reiterate here the content of the so-called tax package of 2020 and then briefly comment on the Senate amendments with which this proposal has been returned to the Chamber of Deputies, as I consider it important to draw attention to the consequences that will arise if the Chamber of Deputies adopts Senate amendments. As we discussed here during the autumn, the main objective of the tax package is to increase the protection of citizens against addiction to addictive substances and gambling and to reduce the harmful social effects associated with these addictions, through changes in the taxation of tobacco products, hard alcohol and gambling. The consumption of addictive substances has not only negative effects on the health of the Czech population, but also represents a high economic burden for public budgets and consumers themselves and their families. We know from professional studies that alcohol costs 59 billion worldwide. crowns per year, smoking even exceeds 100 billion. CZK annually and higher taxes can not only increase public budget revenues but also motivate consumers to reduce consumption and thus reduce related health problems. Furthermore, this package limits the current exemption of gambling prizes to an administrative limit of CZK 1 million net wins, changes the method of creating technical reserves for insurance companies in order to set a more objective criterion for tax purposes, regulates the regime for taxation of interest income arising from the so-called koruna bonds issued before 1 January 2013, regulates the exemption from real estate tax on land with landscape elements of the type of draw that can power against drought, and regulates certain administrative charges, namely the fee for operations carried out at the cadastral office. On the basis of the amendments adopted here on the ground The Chamber of Deputies also increases the limit on the exemption of beer produced in the household for excise duty from 200 litres to 2,000 litres per calendar year, while at the same time reducing the time limit for the retention of the register for exempt beer, Section 59 of the Gambling Act is repealed. The Chamber of Deputies further amended the government's proposal for a proportional increase in gambling tax rates based on the degree of their negative social impact, by increasing rates only for lotteries, significantly - to 35%. The Chamber of Deputies approved the tax package on 6 November 2019, but the Senators returned the law with amendments with which the Ministry of Finance disagreed and whose adoption would have adverse consequences. Let me sum them up. The first of the Senate amendments is the abolition of the increase in administrative fees for proceedings conducted by the Land Register. Increasing administrative fees - with this proposal came the Minister of Agriculture, I see if there is, at the moment, not - in the case of proceedings in the case of the land register, it is intended, above all, to cover the increased expenditure of the state budget on the state administration of the land register in recent years. These expenditures increased significantly more than the average inflation rate. This growth is significantly affected by the newly implemented activities associated with ensuring a higher level of protection against possible fraudulent transactions in the registration of rights in the Land Register and the total expenditure of the state budget in the budget chapter of the Czech Office of Landscape and Cadastral since 2012 increased by a total of 756 million. CZK, with the expected increase in the revenues of administrative charges due to the increase in the administrative fee for the opening of the deposit authorisation procedure ranging between CZK 720 and 760 million, which means that only the increased costs will be covered. The negative impact of adopting this amendment would mean a fall of about 0.72 to 0.76 billion. CZK at the level of public budgets. The second Senate amendment includes the abolition of an increase in the tax rate for lotteries. In the event of adoption of this amendment, tax rates for all gambling would remain at the current level. The proposal would have a negative impact on public budgets of 0,7 billion compared to the proposal, as forwarded by the Chamber of Deputies. for 2020 and 0,9 billion for 2021. The third Senate amendment presents its own amended form of taxation of technical provisions in insurance. The amendment complements the new regulation on taxation of technical provisions in insurance by certain technical adjustments concerning specific items of technical provisions. However, the legislation contained in the amendment is very general in some parts and works with items that may not always be reported separately in the accounts. The application of this adjustment would therefore be very difficult and would complicate tax administration in the area of insurance reserves and would almost make tax control impossible. It therefore denies the purpose of introducing a new regulation on the taxation of technical provisions. The result would also be significant budgetary impacts, in the order of billions of crowns. The last Senate amendment contains an increase in the limit for the write-off of technical appreciation of intangible assets from 40 to 60 thousand. Crowns. The level of the threshold for depreciation of technical assessment of intangible assets has changed several times. At present, however, there is no reason for further change, which would mean an unbalanced intervention in the current concept of tax depreciation of assets. The proposed change would make the tax write-off system more obscure and would bring new administrative costs to taxpayers. The Ministry of Finance has a long-term intention to comprehensively redesign the system of tax depreciation of assets so that it is significantly simpler and more stringent for taxpayers, one-time and tighter within the whole system. It is therefore not desirable to make separate changes to his individual actions now. In view of all the facts that I have just presented here, I would like to ask you to approve the draft law in the original version, i.e. in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u5	Thank you. I ask that Senator Vladislav Vilímec take the floor now and present to us the amendments to the Senate. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u6	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, Madam Vice-President of the Government, honourable Members, I wanted to say to my fellow Members, but I am no longer a Member. Allow me to justify the resolution of the Senate No. 267 on the bill amending tax laws in connection with the increase in public budget revenues, i.e. the so-called tax package, according to the Senate press 150 and the House press 509. The Senate dealt with this very comprehensive bill, which contains models of many tax laws, very detailed in that deadline, within a defined period of 30 days, which is not at all easy for such a law, and took note that this bill went through a very dramatic debate here in the Chamber of Deputies, which was concluded despite the fact that a large number of speakers were not allowed to speak. Although the Senate took note of the great likelihood of a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, it did not accept the proposal to reject this bill because of a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The Senate does not think that it should assess the intensity of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. This is a matter for the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court will certainly decide if Members turn to the Constitutional Court. On the basis of a resolution by two committees, namely the Guarantee Committee on Economic, Agriculture and Transport and the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment, the Senate approved some of the proposed amendments, including one amendment read directly at the Senate plenary by Senator Tomáš Golán. [[15.20 hours]] After all, the main purpose of the tax package, contained in its name, is to increase the revenue of public budgets. Deputy Speaker, Minister Schillerová, in the Senate, also mentioned other reasons for creating a so-called fair tax environment and combating the dependence of high social costs and, in one case, increasing excise duty on tobacco products and ensuring compliance with European Union law. Nevertheless, I consider the other reasons to be rather accompanying effects, the side effects of the main objective, which is to increase revenue to public budgets. I do not want to talk about the whole tax package, of course, we would have been here for a long time, and since there will probably be another discussion, then we would have had a very difficult final vote. There are not many things to be welcomed in this tax package, but at least about so-called koruna bonds issued until 2013 and also some passages and exemptions in the case of real estate tax. However, many changes in this law are very controversial, with a negative impact on citizens and taxpayers. That needs to be realized. In fact, the Minister asked herself the rhetorical question of what would happen if the amendments in the Senate were approved. The only thing that would happen is that the service of the state would be cheaper for the citizen. That would happen. [[Noise in the hall.]] The Senate was very responsible. It does not correct anything that would have fatal implications for public budgets. Madam Secretary knows that. Yes, the Senate has proposed abolishing part five of the amendment to the Act on Administrative Charges. First, the amendment to the Act on Administrative Charges is only remotely related to tax laws. In the case of a proposal to increase this fee, both in the Senate and here in the House, the petitioner basically pointed out the need for an increase in income mainly with regard to an increase in income for the chapter of the Czech Land survey and cadastral office. And in the Senate, the secretary added it. It also supplemented the argument that this deposit fee to the Land Register increased last in 2012. 2012 is no prehistory. I remember, I was a Member at the time, and to refresh my memory, I would like to say that the administrative fee had previously been set at CZK 500 for a deposit in the Land Register in 1994. That means the first change, the first increase took place after 18 years. If this bill is adopted, there will now be a double increase after seven years. I still remember as an MP, and she's a good historical memory, that in 2008 The Chamber of Deputies did not approve the proposal to increase the administrative fee for the deposit in the Land Register to CZK 1,500. That was 2008. Even then, the arguments were the same - higher administrative costs of the state, or inflation, similar to those of today. When the Minister talks about 700 million crowns, I have studied the draft budget chapter 346, I think it is the number of the Czech Land survey and cadastral office. Believe that only CZK 500 million, not CZK 700 million, is expected to increase the revenues associated with the increase in administrative fees in this office. The next 200 million will flow to the General Treasury. [[Noise in the hall.]] I do not think that this is how the state should treat citizens and taxpayers. It is also worth recalling, I have studied the whole discussion of the draft budget for next year, that the House refused to approve, at the final reading of the budget, the balanced proposal by Members Petr Bendl, Jan Bauer and Vojtěch Munzar registered under letter B157, which would increase the income of the chapter of the Czech Office of the Agricultural and Cadastral by CZK 640 million, i.e. roughly the same amount that the petitioner expected from increasing the administrative fee for the deposit in the Land Register. If this proposal were approved, no administrative fees would have to increase at all and there would have been no further withdrawal of money from citizens. Such a hit, a fashion trend - and this is not only about the administrative fee for the deposit in the land register, but for administrative fees in many areas - is increasing to double. A hundred percent. I don't know if inflation has been 100 percent in total since 2012, but that's stupid, so I don't know why it's increasing by 100 percent in the case of an administrative fee. For this reason, the Senate has proposed the abolition of this section, which does not really relate to those tax laws and has no fatal impact on public budgets. Please, in a situation where the revenue of the state budget is exactly the trillion, I don't know, three hundred, four hundred billion crowns, so the Ministry of Finance has to deal with the problem of CZK 500 million increase in income for the chapter of the Czech office of survey and cadastral. Another amendment that the Minister referred to and accepted by the Senate is the abolition of part six, originally part seven, concerning the amendment of the Gaming Tax Act. This part is problematic precisely because it increases - oddly enough - only the taxation of lottery revenues, i.e. socially the least risky and least dangerous gambling. The tax rate for other gambling games, which are compared to the technical game by their risk, remained at the current level at 23 percent. I don't understand. Such changes are completely senseless and completely illogical. And some very well-used argument in this area, fighting addiction, would have made significant cracks. I know it was not suggested by the government that it was created here in some creative inspiration in the Chamber of Deputies, but none other than the members of the coalition, with the support of the Communist Members, proposed the tax package. So the government coalition is clearly responsible for this change in the vote. [[Noise in the hall.]] The Senate refused to make a tax adjustment in this area because, you know, the amount of taxation in these gambling games must be based on clear expert arguments and not last-minute shots, as was the case in the Chamber of Deputies. That doesn't mean anything. For this reason, the Senate recommends abolishing the entire part of the amendment to the Gaming Tax Act. [[15.30 hours]] Another area that the Senate returns with modifications is taxation. technical provisions adjusted under the Reserves Act for determining the income tax base. These amendments are contained in paragraphs five and six of the Senate's amendments. The draft law approved in the Chamber of Deputies, on the one hand, in the framework of the amendment to the Income Tax Act, taxes the negative difference between the amount of adjusted reserves in insurance under Act No. 593, as effective as from the date of application of this Act, and the balance of reserves, as amended, effective before the date of entry into force of this Act. The Government's proposal envisaged taxation of this negative difference, respectively. increasing the result of the management so that in each of the two first years it is always 50 per cent. The one-off taxation, mentioned by the Minister, is supposed to carry about 10,5 billion in public budgets according to the explanatory report. Crowns. One-off taxation of the difference between the amount of the so-called the accounting provisions and provisions under the Solvency II Directive are very controversial, but the Senate does not change this intention. I merely point out that some of the comments, including the Czech National Bank, requested that this one-off taxation be spread over several years. At the meeting directly with the Ministry of Finance officials, the Czech National Bank promoted a three-year period. In the end, they are only two years in the law. The Minister spoke here in general about the definition of technical provisions. It is a very expert matter, it is difficult to explain, and I also explained it very closely with representatives of the Czech Insurance Association. That amendment, which is more precise, not that it has application problems - that is always said when a minister does not want to accept something, that it would mean application problems. Then he would have to say what specific application problems it would have. On the contrary, the bill, the amendment that was adopted in the Senate, specifies the dictum. Yes, as a tax deductible expenditure, it also includes so-called. Unearned premiums, the purpose of which is only to ensure that the premiums income are differentiated in time. At the same time, the amendment also excludes double taxation of foreign permanent establishments using the tax credit method paid abroad. It is pointless that a permanent establishment, or that insurance companies which have a permanent establishment abroad, do not appoint the particular insurance company to pay taxes in Slovakia and taxes in the country. It would be more or less affected by double taxation. That's exactly what this Senate bill or the amendment that is supposed to have some application problems removes. The opposite is true! What has been approved will have major application problems. The last amendment referred to in point 4 is a proposal which, although not recommended by the Committee of Guarantees, has been loaded up to the Senate meeting, and has logic, has some internal logic, is a proposal to increase the limit for the depreciation of the technical assessment of intangible assets to an amount of 60 thousand. CZK, which will eliminate both the disproportion between accounting regulations and the Income Tax Act. According to the amended accounting rules, a limit was set for the write-off of technical appreciation for intangible assets of 60 thousand. CZK, for a material 40 thousand, but the threshold of the entry price of this income tax assessment, now I am talking about the technical assessment of intangible assets, remains in the amount of 40 thousand. Crowns. This is disproportion and obvious nonsense that the Senate is trying to correct. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate has returned this bill with amendments which merely remove any existing disproportion in the present law and mostly propose some amendments to those laws that are regulated or amended by the tax package. Yes, it simply proposes to abolish those parts of the bill that are not really related to taxes - which are the administrative charges - and burden citizens with other costs of service to the state, which is not necessary at all, I do not know that this is necessary, or that are parts whose final wording does not actually correspond to the government's declared intention at all. This is actually about releasing the gambling tax part. By approving these amendments, there will be no complications, no major, even small, impact on public budgets. 56 senators supported the bill with amendments, and none of the senators opposed it. This suggests significant support for senators across senator clubs. Maybe one more notick about the gambling tax bill we're proposing to cancel, the novel. The Minister used or spoke of the impact of 900 miles. Crowns. But these are the effects that concern the government proposal, which has not been accepted at all. I don't know what the impact would be, I mean the positive impact on the public budgets of the proposal that was adopted here in the Chamber of Deputies. I think it would be such a loser. You, Madam Secretary, were based on the fact that some of the fewer, those medium-dangerous games would be raised at a rate of 30%, and otherwise, in all games, the rate would have increased from 23 to 25 percent. You can count the 900 miles for that. But it turned out the other way around. They only increased, and you know it well, rates, or one lottery tax rate, whose income - where there is least bet amounts, and for all others, compared to the government proposal, the rate actually went down. So it can't be, Madam Secretary, 900. I don't know what it is, but it can't be 900 miles. I therefore believe that the Chamber of Deputies will accept these responsible proposals. These are proposals both in favour of taxpayers, natural and legal persons, and they are actually very gentle with public budgets at the same time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u7	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. Thank you, Senator Vilímc. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Budget Committee, Mr Milan Feranc, if he wishes to comment. If this is not the case, I am opening up a debate and I have the priority right of Vice-President Tomio Okamura and other colleagues Ferjenčík, Skopeček and Miroslav Kalousek to sign up. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, so-called. The government tax package returned to the House by the Senate is indeed a blind man of a number of apparently unsystemic tax increases. In addition to the electoral promise of the ANO movement that it will not increase taxes, which is flagrantly in breach of this tax package, taxes are, without a doubt, one of the country's main revenues and, at the same time, taxes are the leverage that the state is influencing the economy and the behaviour of citizens. [[15.39 hours]] The government wants to tax insurance reserves while refusing to tax the hardest forms of gambling and tax more harmless tickets instead. Not to mention higher charges to the Land Register. What does the government and the Treasury mean? There's only one thing to read about this: we desperately need your money and we'll take it wherever we have a real chance. This is the message of the government of the movement YES, ČSSD and KSČM towards decent working citizens. Some government measures have, to say the least, a kind of support for crime. Increasing taxes on alcohol and tobacco lead to increasing motivation for people to smuggle or forge alcohol and tobacco and produce black. Where it leads, the survivors can testify for the victims of the methanol affair. The massive raids of Nordic alcoholics after cheap drinking into Prague in recent years show that restrictions and excessive prices do not deter anyone from alcohol. But that's just the policy that this government is doing here. After all, every alcoholic here buys a box of wine for 25 kroner liters. Wines that aren't given at all. I'm not saying it's a good thing or a bad thing, but the fact is that if someone wanted to start a fight against alcohol or introduce a higher price of alcohol, they would have to tax wine and, on the contrary, they would have to change the beer tax because, paradoxically, we wouldn't give alcohol to beer, but an extract from the original youth. This means that in practice, the state forces breweries to put fewer ingredients into beer and to ferment these thinner beers more so that at least the proportion of alcohol makes them look stronger. As far as gambling is concerned, it is very easy to save money from the state and citizens by one cut, by the absolute ban on gambling machines, so-called winning terminals, and by banning their online equivalents on the Internet. It is the complete ban on slot machines and their online equivalents that I have been pushing for many years, but other political parties are rejecting it. At the same time, the government has studies that show that the cost of the consequences of this type of gambling, i.e. slot machines and their internet equivalents, is higher for the state and citizens than the tax return. Despite these facts, this government rejects such savings and itself parasites others' misfortunes. That's really disgusting. Higher charges on real estate cadastrals, which are once again promoted here by the government of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement, appear to be a small thing, but we know that we had, for example, a real estate law amendment that will complicate and make sales of flats more expensive in practice. And here's another drop for the proverbial cup that this government is promoting here. We are clearly on our way to economic recession, and instead of supporting the real estate and construction market by simplifying bureaucracy and discounting for businesses and citizens, the government is doing the opposite here. In individual terms, the changes seem like little things that the state, the companies and the citizens will tighten, but there are so many, and more and more, that one day they will break our necks. First of all, they break the neck of decent and working people. To illustrate these arguments, I would like to quote from today's press release from the Highlands Police Department. She suggested charging 25 people for illegal tobacco trafficking and tax cuts. They're facing up to 10 years in prison. Over 31 tons of tobacco were imported into the Czech Republic, the damage is over 69 million crowns. For your information, it's not some first swallow, it's a splinter of the flock. This August, for example, the Police of the Czech Republic proposed to indict tens of people to reduce value added tax on tobacco products, which caused damage to the state in the amount of CZK 265 million. If this government thinks it's going to get more income by extremely expensive, it's wrong. It only increases the motivation of the underworld to build mafia structures and rob the state, and I, along with normal people, can only ask: is it just the outrageous stupidity of this government or intent? We all know where it led, for example, prohibition in the US. It's just that the mob grew up out of the profits of smuggled alcohol that the U.S. hasn't dealt with to this day. The only way to combat an economic crisis is by allowing the screws the government is tightening. The fact that I leave more money to people and businesses and, on the contrary, make their lives and, above all, their jobs as simple as possible is what the SPD is trying to do. This country does not need these government tax packages that make their lives more expensive, making life more expensive for those decent working people. This country needs tax packages that, on the contrary, will make citizens' lives cheaper, and it needs mega-packs of change that will relieve them of ever-increasing bureaucracy. These are changes that will eventually bring higher incomes not only to citizens but also to the state register, and that is the proposal that our SPD movement is giving here. For the above reasons, the SPD will not support this government's proposed increase in taxes and fees, especially in a situation where we know that the government is buying more than 10 billion U.S. combat helicopters, giving 6 billion to completely botched inclusion in education, instead of supporting a system of special education. He's giving $40 billion to the solar barons, and on the contrary, you here two weeks ago rejected our amendment, where we were taking this amount to the solar barons, and we wanted to give it to the needy people. So in this, in this budget, where you prefer those people who parasite on the budget, and on the contrary, you persect decent and working people, including seniors and disabled pensioners, that's not really gonna support the SPD. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u9	That was Vice-President Tomio Okamura. Now in the debate, then, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Jan Skopeček will prepare himself. Then Miroslav Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we discussed this press at the club today and agreed to support the Senate version of the proposal, although it does not include a reduction in the taxation of work that we would of course welcome, but there are at least significant positive changes, especially the maintenance of the fee for the deposit in the cadastral to the current amount, a somewhat more rational way of taxation for insurance companies and a shift in the good direction of depreciation. With regard to lottery taxation, we think that there is no problem and priori increase the tax on lotteries, however 35 percent is simply power when there is an increase from 23 to 35 and everything else is preserved. Practically, lotteries get to the level of slot machines, which doesn't make much sense. It may make sense for some marginal segment of scratch tickets sold over the Internet, but certainly not for those common tickets people buy at the post office or in the newsroom, there's no head and heel to say that lotteries are the toughest gambles. So for these reasons, we will support the Senate version, although we would welcome the increase in excise taxes being accompanied by a reduction in labour taxation, which we have also proposed in this Chamber of Deputies, and unfortunately, the government coalition YES, ČSSD and KSČM rejected our proposals to reduce taxes to people. That is why we will support the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u11	I thank Mr Ferjenčík, now with a factual remark from Václav Klaus. After that, Jan Skopeček is duly enrolled in the debate. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u12	Hello, I'm just being brief. We're not gonna support either of those versions, because both of those versions are raising taxes. The Senate version is a little less, but less is still little, so we maintain the principle that we do not support any law that increases taxes to Czech citizens, companies, insurance companies or operators of exchange rate or other betting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a colleague of Mr. Skopeček. Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u14	Thank you very much. On the contrary, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to support the Senate version of the law, because if we can count, it is clear that one of these versions will simply be adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. I think it's always better to have lower taxes than higher taxes. The Senate proposal is heading in that direction, correcting the original government version and reducing the tax burden the government wants to impose on people under the tree. Although we have one of the highest tax burdens in history and, according to the Ministry of Finance data, the tax quota will rise to record levels next year, Minister Schillerová and the ANO movement are giving citizens of the Czech Republic another tax increase for Christmas under the tree. Unfortunately, we lost the dispute here in the Chamber of Deputies. We remember the argument. I reject those first sentences, Madam Secretary, by which the law always states that it is a law that aims to reduce consumption of alcohol, cigarettes and gambling. It's not true. The very name of the law shows what it's supposed to do. This bill is supposed to be used to further smashing taxpayers' wallets. The government isn't enough to rip out reserves, now it's going to sell state material reserves, it's going to tear down insurance reserves, and it's going to reach into taxpayers' pockets. Therefore, please, since we have already lost this with the left-wing government in the Chamber of Deputies and taxes will increase, let us at least support a version where the increase will not be so high. And at least with that deposit fee in the real estate register, I think it has a clear logic. We all see how property prices are, how difficult it is for young families to get their own housing. Even if the government refuses to abolish the real estate tax, which would certainly be a partial aid from the state to those who are facing very expensive real estate and very expensive housing today. But to increase them by a thousand-caloron deposit in the cadastral, I find it absolutely unbelievable that the government at any time has historically the highest tax revenues for economic growth, that it even dares to design this and even more toss it together especially for young families who face really high housing prices in large cities. Madam Secretary argues inflation, that's very magical. I think inflation didn't grow by 100 percent so that it could increase the fee by 100 percent, but the secretary only argues with inflation when it suits her. When we were talking here, and together with the pirát, we proposed increasing the basic deductible item of personal income tax, which also does not respond to inflation, it does not increase relative amount, given inflation growth falling, and automatically increases the tax burden on taxpayers, so the Minister of Finance has forgotten inflation as an argument at the moment and uses it as a utility only when it fits for higher taxes. So please, the government giving taxpayers higher taxes under the tree is clear now, but let's at least lighten the gift by not making it as high as the government suggests and approve the Senate version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u15	I thank Mr Jan Skopečka. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek with his speech on the subject. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, I would like to refresh your memory on a very important document, which is the government's programming statement, in this case in the area of finance, where the government undertakes to conduct the entire term. Quote one: "We promote a stable and predictable tax environment. Changes to the system of tax laws will be implemented by only a few aggregate amendments, and this will be done" - please note - "with sufficient delay in efficiency." That's in the government's programming statement. Here we have no choice but to say that the government should put in the explanatory notes that there is a sufficient delay in the effectiveness of tax legislation for two weeks. Because we have December 16th, the effectiveness of the law is assumed as of January 1st, at this point no trader, no liquor dealer yet, and a number of other entrepreneurs basically have no idea what to expect as of January 1st. This is still the Christmas holiday, but the government probably considers two weeks to be a sufficient delay in efficiency. That's option number one. Option number two is that the government here knowingly violates the government's programming statement, which is a more likely option. Quote two, very short sentences: "We honor the principle of fiscal neutrality." We all know what tax neutrality is. If I raise something somewhere, I'll lower it somewhere else so I'll have zero at the end. That's tax neutrality. Well, even though the government in its programming statement says that this principle honors and so it will behave for four years, we are now just before the approval of the government bill amending some tax laws in connection with the increase in the revenue of the state budget. The Minister has even numbered several times how this will affect the higher tax quota and the higher revenue of the state budget. So you don't honor the principle of fiscal neutrality. In your programming statement, you promise that you will provide sufficient legisvacancing to entrepreneurs within a predictable readable environment, and then you will not hesitate to give them only 14 days. You honor tax neutrality to raise taxes afterwards. So in this case, I take the liberty of having my first question to the Minister, and I think we'd still deserve an answer before the vote. Why, if in so many other cases it refers to the government's programming statement, why in this case does the government knowingly violate its programming statement and not mind at all? Simple explanation. For example, we do not take the programming statement seriously. I would understand. That's an argument. Then I don't understand why, in other cases, the government is referring to this programming statement. The second question I would like to ask the Minister is what is the budgetary impact on the government proposal in the case of a Senate amendment to insurance companies. I confess without torture, it doesn't happen to me often that I couldn't calculate the budgetary impact with accuracy to plus minus ten fifteen percent, but I just can't really do it here. I don't know, it's about off-balance-sheet accounts that I don't have access to, but I just can't calculate the budgetary impact, and I think we deserve that information from the Treasury. Because if the Ministry of Finance has an opinion on this amendment, it certainly has that effect. So if I were allowed to ask you, Madam Secretary, to answer these two simple questions, you would be very kind. Otherwise, the position of the parliamentary club is very simple. If we had a choice between not approving anything and a Senate proposal, we'd want nothing and reject the Senate proposal. Unfortunately, we don't have that choice. We are in a situation where we can hope that most of us will have some sense after all and will approve the less dramatic and less senseless version that the Senate version is, and therefore the MP's TOP 09 - as Prime Minister Nečas used to say in a good memory - will support the Senate proposal with the gnashing of teeth. Should this proposal fail, it is absolutely impossible that we would vote in favour of the House version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u17	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I now have a factual comment by Jan Hrnčíř and a priority right by Mrs Věra Kovářová. Now, then, my colleague Hrnčíř, with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u18	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say to the government's proposal for a tax package that the position is that we cannot support this government proposal because it actually robs people's wallets and makes people's lives more expensive. However, we have a Senate version here today that has come back with amendments. And it is true that it contains some rational proposals, such as returning the deposit fee to a thousand crowns, because we consider it completely pointless to raise this fee by 100%, already because here we have a 4% tax on the acquisition of the property. That means we, as a SPD club, have agreed to support the Senate version because we believe it's less harmful than the government proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the priority right of Mrs Věra Kovářová, then the priority right of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u20	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to speak on behalf of the Mayors' Club and independent of the tax package. It can be said very briefly that the government promised not to raise taxes but to do the exact opposite. It increases the excise duty on alcohol, cigarettes, and gambling, which could be further apologized. However, it protects health and prevention against addiction. We would assume that the funds selected would be in the fight against addiction and health protection. However, we must state that, compared to previous years, funds for prevention are being cut back. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] Another point that we do not like is the taxation of the technical reserves of insurance companies. It's a one-time and unsystemic income, though two-year-old, to the state budget. It's something similar to ripping out the National Property Fund and selling out the state's material reserves. A third point we don't like -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u21	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I would ask colleagues who are discussing a different subject and have not applied to the debate on this subject to transfer the discussions to the foyer so that everyone who wants to comment on this can finish their presentation in a dignified environment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u22	Thank you. The third point that we do not like is the increase in deposit fees in the cadastral, by 100%, and, as has been said many times, the justification is an increase in inflation, which certainly does not correspond to the hundred percent, and there will also not be a 100% increase in service comfort for this very increased money. The Senate proposal also follows our amendments in a certain way when we interrupted the increase in the deposit fee in the cadastral and when we also said that the technical provisions on life insurance should not be taxed, and we tabled an amendment in the form presented by the Senate. I must say that these are the things that we have put forward, supported, but neither the Senate's presentation of these amendments will lead us to support the Senate version. So we will not support the Senate version, as we will not support the House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's priority right now. His party colleague Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u24	Thank you for the floor. I will not repeat my speech from the first hearing in the Chamber of Deputies, when I discussed the shortcomings in detail, I would say, in all parts of the tax package, but I am focusing on a comparison between the Senate and the House version. I believe that if we shifted this rationally, without politically prestigious views, the Senate version would receive overwhelming support from the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, if it wins the political prestigious position that the government and the government majority are always right, then the version of the House will prevail. Maybe just a brief reminder of the debate. We have not forgotten how the debate on this bill ended. We have not forgotten and we will deal with this procedure in time. And I believe that the Constitutional Court will at least say that the government majority repeatedly and consciously violate the law. When someone does it for the first time, they can make excuses for not knowing they were breaking the law, and that they've found some handy lawyer who told the government most that they can do that. In this situation, we already have the case law of the Constitutional Court, which clearly ruled when assessing the constitutionality of the EET that the law had been violated. And there was a clear relapse and repeated violation of the law. In order to break down the criticism, of the four things that the Senate returns, we did not debate one in the Chamber of Deputies, and that is the question of technical assessment of investment assets or repairs. [[unintelligible]] I think it is news that this is in the debate - at least I did not notice that this would be heard in the debate in the Chamber of Deputies. I just want to remind our debate on the Committee on Budgets, when the Minister also acknowledged that there was a problem, and she said that if not now, the Ministry of Finance will deal with it at the latest next time. So this is a rational proposal that has escaped the attention of the Chamber of Deputies as a whole. I think it has something to do with it. Then we return, and the Senate actually recommends changing three things, just three things in the tax package. And I would like to appreciate from this place the restraint of individual senators and the restraint of the upper chamber as a whole. Because it is a political reality that we who have a minority in the Chamber of Deputies have a majority in the upper chamber. And we could, and we had the political strength to push those key points in the tax area that have opposition parties in the House in their programs. However, colleagues in the Senate - thank you again for this - have chosen a minimalist approach with the suggestion that only the biggest irregularities were proposed to eliminate, with the possibility of a rational debate and a rational vote. Of the three things two go to the Czech Social Democratic Party. That's what I'm saying. I was very critical here in the first, second, third reading of the Minister, the Prime Minister and the ANO movement. However, the three points that the Senate is proposing to correct are certainly two that the Social Democrats have advocated. First of all, it's an increase in the cost of the cadastral. According to my information, the initiative came from the Ministry of Agriculture, not the Ministry of Finance. We have offered another solution in the state budget, the government majority has rejected this. We found other money in the budget that could have been allocated to the cadastral office without increasing the fee by a hundred percent. Anyway, it didn't work. And the second point, which goes to the Czech Social Democratic Party, and I am glad that Mr Veselý is present, has chosen our fellow citizens who are betting Sport in the fight against gambling. In his conception of the world and in the concept of the world of the Czech Social Democratic Party, the worst gamble is to play Sportka. I don't understand. I've read the explanatory report on this proposal, and it's not clear from this. In my opinion, there are motives other than rational, factual, or gambling, or the fight against addiction. I don't know what it is. I do not want to speculate on the microphones led by Mr Veselý, President Hamáček, the Minister of the Interior, and other colleagues from social democracy, that they are in such a senseless way proposing to change the law, virtually. Gambling taxes by 50 percent for Sportka and for all others to maintain status quo. We supported the status quo for everyone. We think that there is no solid analysis of the impact of the introduction of actually a gambling tax. I think that's the third tax period that the tax pays, and we haven't received any solid analysis. Yet the Social Democrats chose Sportka or Sazka to be quite specific, as a universal culprit, as one who needs to be punished. I don't understand at all. And maybe I can politely ask Mr. Veselý to say what's worse than the crates. What's worse than odds? What makes it worse than all the other kinds of gambling, the sportka one. [[16.10 hours]] I know people in my family who bet Sports, and I really don't think of them as gamblers. They did not bring their families into misfortune by playing Sportka, but in the logic of the Czech Social Democratic Party, of course, this is the worst evil. I really don't understand. And they look like they have nothing to do with it. But it was their proposal, and they pushed for it in the coalition. No one else. So when we criticize the government, let's not forget that the government is not monochrome, but it consists of more political entities, that is, three of them. As far as the taxation of technical provisions is concerned, I will not go back to our fundamental dissenting position as a whole. I think what the Senate has adopted is most similar to a government proposal. It brings the least budget losses according to how the government planned it and prevents double taxation. I think it's a good thing the Senate pointed that out. If you say so, then know, it will be one of the reasons why we will challenge the tax package at the Constitutional Court. You can't say you haven't been warned. That's not a debate about whether or not you do. It's not even a debate about whether life insurance doesn't and non-life insurance does. It's a much more subtle debate, and I think, and I wonder if the Secretary of State is able to tell us the budgetary impact, and it will be much smaller. Based on what went through the parliamentary version, the potential revenue for the state budget is 10 billion in two tax periods. And I really wonder what we're going to vote on today. How much? I'm just reminding you that we have 1,600 billion expenses next year. If I divide gradually, so that I don't make a mistake, so ten percent of the expenditure is 160 billion, one percent is 16 billion, and one per million is 1.6 billion. And without knowing the detailed calculations, I'd say that the budget estimate is going to be moving around that one per mile, maybe less. If someone with a serious face is saying that one commission of spending is capable of endangering the outcome of the state's management, he is knowingly not telling the truth. He's not knowingly telling the truth. And today we're gonna stand before the decision whether to vote for nothing or vote for the Senate version. So I think our attitude is fairly simple. If we had a government majority and were part of the government, we wouldn't be able to come up with a bill like that. We won't. And if we assess both of these options, then the two options are definitely a better option, which the Senate has recommended. And we don't live in an ideal world. We know how cards are dealt in the Chamber of Deputies that the opposition has a minority, but if I have to choose from a completely bad version and version, which is also not ideal according to our programme, it is better than the government, virtually. MP, so logically, we're going to choose the Senate version, and this is how we're going to vote. But I want you to remember, and I promise you, we have not forgotten and we will not forget how you have treated the opposition in the debate. I don't want to repeat the debate today, but I'm telling you, we're gonna have this one more time at the Constitutional Court, and I believe we're gonna be successful. And I think that if you blindly insist on the House version that although wrong, but paradoxically you will increase the chances of a constitutional complaint.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u25	Thank you, Mr Stanjur. Now a factual point Ondřej Veselý, a colleague of Munzar is ready. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have been invited by my colleague Stanjura, and I will be happy to answer through you. My proposal to tax sazka, the first thing you say wrong, and you know it, it has nothing to do with those who bet Sazka and Sportka. They don't change anything. It doesn't touch them at all. It has something to do with who gets the profit from the business. That's one of the dollar billionaires. And while we were at the gamble, my proposal was purely left-wing, I understand that for right-wing politics incomprehensible, but purely left-wing, to tax the hundreds of million dollar billionaire's profits. It's a left-wing theme, it's clear to me, so I designed it, and it passed. So that's how it is, and it wasn't, and you're right, that's what I'm telling you, it wasn't directed at me to limit some kind of gamble - colleague Blažek almost fell off it now - but to tax a dollar billionaire and his hundreds of million dollar profits. That's all. It's a left-wing theme, and that's why I did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's point of view. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u28	I agree with what President Faltýnek said. I'll put it on the microphone. At aspoň he admitted it. I appreciate that, Mr. Veselý through the Vice-President. If you look towards me, there's a dollar billionaire behind me, as you say. Where's the system approach? That one dollar billionaire could kick you out of the government, so we have to be careful. But another dollar billionaire - now I'm using Mr. Veselý's dictionary - can't throw them out of the government, so we can be left-wing heroes. [[Fun.]] Here we see a pure class struggle. I don't know how many dollar billionaires own other kinds of gambling. I won't even examine it. I really don't mind. It's the Social Democrats. Mr. Veselý likes to present himself as the young, dynamic, modern, social democrat. It's a mistake. It's the old communist look. He's a billionaire! That's what we have to tax! That's the right left-wing theme. And then you wonder the situation you're in. I'm not surprised at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Colleague Ondřej Veselý will still respond in a factual remark. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u30	Thank you. Once again through you, Mr President. If any source, billionaire, regardless of whether he's sitting behind me or somewhere else, he's running a different gamble, I'd suggest it. I didn't find another one. If we examine it together, we'll look into it next time and we'll tax him. It's the easiest way. I'm saying it openly. Any dollar billionaire who runs a gamble, I'd cut him pretty good. That's right. I confess openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague Munzar was very patient. He has received and duly signed up for the debate, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am not going to talk long enough and I am not going to focus on individual aspects of the tax package. My colleagues have done this very cleverly. I would just like to draw your attention here, and not even to you, because you know it, but to the public, to the urgency with which the government coalition is trying to raise taxes, and I will mention only the violent cutback of the debate a few weeks ago, which took place here in violation of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I just want it to be said here - because I did not have the opportunity to speak after that, although I reported at the end of the debate on a factual point, but Mr President, Vice-President Filip, did not give me the floor anymore. So I wanted to warn all of you here, and unfortunately I did not get the floor, and I failed to draw your attention to it in time, that while I was here on the tax package, by decision, your dear colleagues, you made it impossible for me to defend and explain my fifth amendment to the tax package. All I want is for it to be heard here on the Steno Protocol that I defended four out of five and the fifth one, although I was properly enrolled in the debate, I was not able to justify it. On this relentless attempt to increase taxes, while the Prime Minister told me in March that you would not raise taxes, we are in December, today there will be a vote on a refund from the Senate on tax increases, so on this fierce attempt to see that it is not at all about taxation of consumption of undesirable behaviour, as the Minister said at the beginning of the debate, but it is purely about revenue to the budget. You raise taxes at a time of economic growth and, for example, without any reforms the government would be doing and for which it would need some more money. The real reason you're raising taxes is because of the budget holes that you've done in terms of economic growth and government revenue growth through your management. Raising taxes isn't the only thing. At the same time, you spend money on the National Property Fund, you want to spend money on the sale of strategic supplies of metals, and you want to keep taxpayers' money - entrepreneurs' money longer, in your account. And it's all led by one motivation: increasing the revenue of the state budget. And here I would like to remind you of a quote from a great statesman Winston Churchill who once said, "There's nothing the government can give you without taking it away from you before." - And you, ladies and gentlemen, take it very heavily. All the proposals put forward by the Ministry of Finance over the last two years lead either to increasing the tax burden or to reducing tolerance to entrepreneurs and increasing the strictness and powers of the state by which you suffocate business. And that is the real policy of this coalition government towards the people! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u33	Thank you, colleague Munzar. Mr Radek Holomčík is now registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this tax package includes, among other things, an amendment to the Law on excise duty, which increases the taxation of alcohol, including the one burned in wine-grown brandies. And on that occasion, I would like to comment on a strange event that happened a while ago. It's been a few weeks, perhaps for a month now, when the Minister of Finance has been fighting heroically in the media's breasts, as the debate and the search for some political will for liberalisation prevented at a European level, to free up the conditions for home burning distillates. It would not have been so special, it is probably the official policy of the government, but if it had not been argued by the lie, in the fact that it was able to prevent future methanol affairs, the repetition of the methanol affair. That's just a lie, and it offends me when it's just this way of communicating with the citizens of this country. Because the methanol affair had absolutely nothing to do with the landlord or the wine-growing burning of spirits. It's just that a bunch of scumbags with forgiveness wanted to make more money and squawk legally produced alcohol with methanol. [[Noise in the hall.]] I would like to ask the Minister if the official policy of this government is that we do not allow people to do anything, so say it plainly and do not use a completely misguided argument, because that really seems extremely undignified to me. It is enough that our pre - Flood legislation makes people who are able to grow some fruit and then process it properly at home, criminals, tax frauds. Let's not make them potential killers, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u35	I thank Mr Holomčík. This was the last duly entered into the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Madam Secretary is not interested. Senator Vilímec is not interested either. [[He does.]] Is he interested? Well, Senator, so we don't take any of your rights away. Before I give you my word, I will ask the House for peace. We are before the vote on a government bill amending certain tax laws. And I'll give the floor to Senator Vilímc, and I hope you'll let him speak in peace. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u36	I also believe that the Chamber of Deputies will allow a representative of Parliament's upper chamber to speak in peace. I'll be brief, very brief in conclusion. I do not want to debate the debate or respond to Mr Veselý's speech. There's no need for that. You know, the Senate's ambition in the case of the tax package certainly was not to rework this tax package, such an extensive law, for several reasons and time. While the government had at least one year to process the package, the Chamber of Deputies also made many comments on the tax package and paid considerable attention to it, so The Senate has only 30 days to discuss ordinary laws from the point of view of constitutional order. Therefore, the Senate's ambition was not to change the law from the very beginning. I am merely responding to some criticism that the Senate amendment does not reduce labour taxation. [[Big noise in the hall.]] We didn't have the ambition to make a tax package from the start. Certainly, if we had the ambition, given the composition of the Senate, it would look completely different from the one that came from the Chamber of Deputies. The Senate's ambition and its right, and even directly the duty is to warn -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u37	I will interrupt you once more, Mr Senator, and ask the House again for peace, both left and right to left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will now just repeat - the ambition of the Senate, its right, and even its duty is to draw attention to the illogicalness and negative effects of the proposal on citizens and taxpayers, and, after all, to the fact that the declared objectives of the government coalition and, after all, the objectives of the Ministry of Finance presented here by Minister Schillerová differ significantly from the wording we received from the Chamber of Deputies. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] That is why we have decided, in fact, to give the Chamber of Deputies a government coalition an opportunity, a space to consider, in particular, the government coalition which voted for this proposal, no one else, again and very responsiblely, all the effects of the law and the need for further expensive services for citizens. I believe that you will take advantage of this space, and you will take advantage of this additional chance that we have given you by approving the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u39	Thank you, Mr. Senator. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm gonna sing. I'm gonna ask you to calm down again. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And once the number of entries is settled, we will vote three hundred sixty-one. The agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt this resolution. I'll read the resolution when it's quiet enough in the House. [[There's a constant noise in the hall. Other Members are coming into the hall.]] I'll wait. I am not stopping you from having any debates, but I would really like to see a decent enough environment for a motion for a resolution here. [[The O.R.'s quieted down a bit.]] Thank you. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending certain tax laws in connection with the increase in the revenue of public budgets, according to the House of Press 509/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 509/6.' I started voting number 361. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 361 of the 183 present for 68, against 99. The motion was denied. I note that a resolution has not been adopted with the draft law as approved by the Senate. Therefore, we shall vote again, pursuant to Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 of the Act on our Rules of Before that, I can see that there is a requirement to check the electronic record of the result of the vote. I'll wait... Will there be a suggestion? [[The vote is being reviewed.]] Mrs Jana Černochová has received information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry, I voted yes, but I have a cross on high. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-17-ps2017-039-09-002-297.u41	Okay, thank you. For the record, then. Let's keep going, then. According to Article 97 (3) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5 The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies requires an absolute majority of all Members, namely 101 Members, to adopt the following resolution. The appropriate number is set. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves a bill amending certain tax laws in the context of increasing the revenue of public budgets, as amended by the Senate, according to House Press 509/5.' We're going to vote 362, which I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 362, out of 186 in favour of 108, against 78, the proposal was adopted. I am of the opinion that we have given our consent to the bill. [[A round of applause from the benches in the left half of the hall.]] Thank you to the Minister of Finance, thank you to the representatives of the Senate, thank you to the rapporteurs, and I finish point 297. We'll continue with point number
