ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-003-089.u1	89. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Genetic Testing for Health Purposes, signed in Strasbourg on 24 October 2017, /German press 81/ - Second reading I ask that Minister Adam Vojtěch take the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-003-089.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly summarize the facts concerning the Government proposal to be submitted to Parliament of the Czech Republic for its approval to ratify the Supplementary Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Genetic Testing for Health Purposes, signed in Strasbourg on 24 October 2017. The Czech Republic, as a member of the Council of Europe, is an international organisation that operates on the principle of debate and participates, inter alia, in dealing with economic, scientific and legal issues, as well as of course in maintaining fundamental human rights and freedoms, signed the relevant Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine in 1998. [[11.10 hours]] In the light of developments in the various fields of medicine, four additional protocols have been developed which extend the existing principles and legal protection of the protection of the persons concerned as provided for in that Convention. One of these documents is the Additional Protocol related to genetic testing for health purposes. This Additional Protocol was adopted unanimously by all Member States of the Council of Europe in 2008. Subsequently, its ratification took place in Slovenia, Moldova, Montenegro and Norway, but it came into force only by being ratified by Portugal, too, because it was necessary for ratification to take place in five states, which is what happened. This means that there is no further obstacle to its entry into force. From the point of view of the Czech Republic, the ratification of this Additional Protocol is in line with the national strategy for rare diseases for the years 2010 to 2020, and does not require, from a professional point of view, an immediate follow-up to the related legislation. As more than 80 per cent of all rare diseases are genetic in nature, the process of ratification of this Additional Protocol is currently being accelerated in the European Union. I note that the Government proposal in question was discussed in the Foreign Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security and in the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. On 17 May 2018, the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agreed to ratify. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I believe that the contribution in the form of ratification of this Protocol by the Czech Republic is obvious and will result in ensuring the highest legal standard of protection for the implementation of genetic tests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-003-089.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur of the Foreign Committee is Mr Pavel Plzák. I ask him to justify the committee's resolution. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-003-089.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues, colleagues, honourable representatives of the government, I think that the opening word of the Minister was absolutely exhausting to clarify the issue. I just want to draw attention to the fact that we dealt with this matter at first reading a year ago, and at that time the Czech Republic still had a chance to become the fifth country to ratify it, and that is actually the entry into force of the Additional Protocol. So Portugal beat us to it. That is all I would like to say about the issue. In addition to the fact that of the four additional protocols, we have another additional protocol that took place at first reading and will wait for second reading. The Foreign Committee addressed this Additional Protocol and the whole issue at its meeting on 25 April 2018 and adopted the following resolution after the discussion. The Foreign Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine related to Genetic Testing for Health Purposes, signed in Strasbourg on 24 October 2017. At the same time, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the results of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-07-ps2017-027-03-003-089.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone reporting for the debate, please? I'm not reporting, I'm done with the debate. We may proceed to the vote. We will vote on the proposed resolution, which the rapporteur has introduced us to. If there's any interest, we can read it again, if not, I'll put it to a vote. I see consent to the opening of the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 121. 131 Members are registered, for 116, against no one. The motion was accepted. I thank the Minister, the rapporteur. We'll move on to the next point. It's about
