ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u1	215. Government bill amending Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests and on amendment and addition of certain laws (forest law), as amended /house print 408/ - third reading I will ask that the Minister of Agriculture of the Czech Republic Miroslav Toman and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Agricultural Committee, Mr Karel Tureček, take the position at the rapporteur's table. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] They're both coming. The amendments are set out in Parliament's Press 408/5, which was delivered on 19 July 2019, in sufficient time. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 408/6. I ask the plaintiff, the Minister of Agriculture, if he wants to speak before the debate begins. Yes, it is. Minister, I will give you my word when the situation calms down and there will be enough peace to discuss the law at third reading. We will decide on its final form, so I would like everyone to pay attention to it, and who has another subject, so fundamentally in the foyer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, if possible, to make a brief statement on the Government's amendment to Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests and on amendment and addition of certain laws, as amended. The aim of the amendment is to address the acute problems of the difficult forestry situation and create conditions for better management. The Government Bill and the amendments adopted were discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies at its 25th meeting 4. This year's 9th and its resolution recommended to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the Government's bill as amended by the amendments adopted. I agree with the draft law, as agreed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The amendments adopted to the forest law complement and extend the amendment in its spirit systemically and are mainly about leaving dead wood greening in the forest, reducing the misfortunes for the low forest, specifying the obligation of an expert forest manager, lawing exceptions to the rules for the use of reproductive material, providing forest economic plans Czech environmental inspection in electronic form, strengthening the inalienability of the state forest. Furthermore, it is an extension of financial contributions to owners of non-state forests to address the impacts of bark sludge in forests and to refine their administration process. At the same time, given the need to simultaneously address the objective need to create as quickly as possible conditions for reducing the situation of game with regard to damage in the forests, I accept the amendments to the Act on Hunting in Parts that are based on the amendment of the Act on Hunting, which was approved by the Government in 2017. These are the possibilities of intervention by the state of hunting management in the provisions of the level of hunting, control of the implementation of the hunting plan and penalties for non-compliance with the hunting plan. In this context, however, I must also state that the Ministry of Agriculture is preparing its own government amendment to the Hunting Act, which will work on assessing the status of ecosystems for the establishment of a hunting plan according to a proven, so-called - professionally speaking - Saxon model, that is to say in a more appropriate way than the amendment proposed by means of expert opinions and decisions by the state hunting administration. I am aware that, in view of changing natural and social conditions, the needs are a comprehensive revision of the existing forest law. At present, the Ministry of Agriculture is preparing the concept of forestry in the Czech Republic, where a wide range of organisations and experts from forestry faculties through state administration, research institutions, forest owners and environmentalists are involved. This concept, based on cross-cutting agreement and the use of adopted documents, will create a task for a more fundamental change in forestry legislation, which will undoubtedly address the areas of law in which amendments that have not been adopted within this House press will also be dealt with. I firmly believe that the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to ask you to do so and ask you to accept the proposed amendment as approved by the Committee on Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u3	I thank the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, and I am opening up a debate in which Mrs Pekarová is the first to sign up. Madame, you're logged in. Mr. Bendl will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, few topics in the House really affect all citizens and with such urgency as the state of the Czech forests. For over 20 years, the professional public has been alerting the conceptually ill-treatment of forests. The same ancient forests, which have been preferred by forest law so far, are slowly dying, the conifers' monocultures fall victim to bark, and in large holodecks we can only find the soil without water and life. After all, every three minutes, a forest the size of a football field disappears, and that's really alarming. Unfortunately, the amendment to the Forest Law, as it was prepared, does not solve this situation sufficiently. Our amendments comprehensively approach the individual ills of the Czech forests caused by poor management. The proposals are based on years of professional discussions, the 2008 National Forestry Programme, the 2012 State Forestry Policy Policy Policy, the last year's Climate Change Adaptation Action Plan and the European Forestry Institute's recommendation this year. There are hundreds of scientists and experts behind them and over 60,000 public petents. In rare agreement, it is supported not only by professional and lay public but also by foresters along with ecologists. Apels from citizens to support the comprehensive reconstruction of the Czech forests are certainly among their correspondence found by every one of us. In short, I will try to sum up the importance and importance of each of the individual amendments that I propose with other colleagues. The first G1 proposal concerns risky trees and allows the majority betting of spruce so far to retreat even where they fail. On the contrary, it introduces a maximum proportion of ecologically and climaticly risky trees, such as spruce, which must not be exceeded in the recovery of the crop. The second Amendment G2 prevents large-scale peasants from being protected from the sun and unable to contain water, eroding and being washed away by rain. The proposal specifies that the size of the Holodeck shall not exceed half a hectare in the planned extraction. The exception is the mining of calamity and forests with mostly ecological or climate risk trees. [[11.00 hours]] The G3 proposal extends the time limit for forestation so that clearings can be given longer time for natural restoration and forestation for up to ten years. Forests will thus be able to grow from natural rejuvenation and move towards different ages and species diversity, because only such forests are resistant, not only to climate change. The proposal does not prevent the owner of the forest from planting earlier because it allows him to follow his approach, but allows him to keep the natural vegetation longer. The G4 proposal is intended to set up statutory protective measures in such a way as to be proportionate to the possibilities of owners. In the woods, both technology and people are missing, yet forest owners are threatened with fines for non-compliance with compulsory mining, although they are objectively unable to comply with it. The fifth proposal, i.e. the G5, aligns the relationship between forest law and nature conservation law so that they are not in conflict. The current regulation requires an absolute obligation to intervene against pests, which is appropriate in the economic forests, but no longer in protected areas. In some cases, the care plan provides for the maintenance of spontaneous development, but this is not defined in the law on nature protection, and this leads to conflict. The amendment complements the definition there. The G6 proposal to protect soil and biodiversity prevents the loss of nutrients from forest soil. Excessive removal of nutrients from forest ecosystems, including removal of branches, bark, tree peaks and all strains, is one of the major causes of poor forest health. This proposal allows, in particular, economically unvalued parts of the harvested trees to be left in the forest for natural degradation and maintenance of the soil. Finally, Amendment G7 affects the current critical imbalance between the state and condition of forest ecosystems and the high numbers of cloven-hoofed game that forests in many areas cannot support. The damage caused by the new planting of animals accounts for up to seven billion crowns a year, and in a quarter of cases the game destroys a new crop of 100 percent. The stocks of cloven-hoofed game have been growing steadily since World War II and an absolute record was reached last year in their catches, according to which real numbers can be derived. Without effective solutions to these unbearable damage caused by herbivorous animals in forest ecosystems, it is not possible to restore species-wide and stable forests. The aim of the proposal is for hunters to hunt animals in such numbers and where this corresponds to the state of the forest ecosystem and where the forest needs this often mentioned replacement of large beasts. In practice, therefore, where the game with the forest is balanced or less, it may shoot even less than it has so far. Since this amendment in the Committee on Agriculture has only been passed in some of its parts, I would like to urge us to vote on this proposal as a whole. It was prepared to give real meaning and meaning and to help solve this problem in its very complex form, and if we approve it only in certain parts, it may be paradoxically that it will not prove beneficial in practice and that, on the contrary, it will cause problems for forest owners. That is why I want to appeal to you that, in the course of the procedure subsequently, I will propose this in a detailed debate, this amendment will vote as a whole and not in individual parts. Given the urgency of the situation, I am pleased that we have also agreed on the necessity of comprehensive amendments to the forest law with colleagues from both the pirate party and the ANO movement, with some of you. I believe that for these amendments, which are in agreement with both foresters, environmentalists and, of course, the public in large numbers, we will also find in you, and that thus we will improve the amendment proposal so that it can really help Czech forests. We do not want to rely on the Ministry to come up with its own amendment, because it is really not in sight, and it is really a question of whether we would have reached it at all during this parliamentary term. We'd just put the whole problem away for the future. Therefore, I would ask you to support these professionally prepared amendments and, at the same time, not to address their individualities in some cases, each individually, but as a whole, because they make sense, so that they can help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u5	Thank you, Mrs Markéta Pekarová. I now have the factual remark of Mr Ondřej Veselý and the priority right of the President of the club ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek, and then Mr Bendl is duly registered. Now, then, Mr. Veselý. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My factual point is a factual question about Mrs Pekarová through you. She's not listening to me right now. Markéta Pekarová - she listens to me now, excellent! Of course, we all received a number of suggestions on the matter, a number of opinions, a number of comments. I must admit that on the series of amendments tabled by Mrs Pekarová, I had a positive point of view, but today, for me, it was a rather crucial position that I received either this evening or this morning, I read it today, and that was the Academy of Sciences, I think, and that contradicted some of the provisions. For example, the species diversity of the forest contradicted, and the thinking was also not entirely enthusiastic, and I will say, I am more concerned about the expertise of these proposals. You, my colleague, said that this is professionally processed, on the other hand, if the experts express themselves that it is not completely professionally processed, virtually. I don't think it's possible, so I just have my doubts. And now I don't know, maybe you can help me solve my dilemma. I, of course, am clearly in favour of the species diversity of the forest, we know what monocultures have done to us, that is clear, but on the other hand, to accept something that will then not be possible in practice, so I also do not consider it entirely happy. So that's my question to you how to get out of this. I'm sure we can all agree that we need a species-richer forest, but also in a way that can be realized. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u7	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Two more factual points - Mr Holomčík and then Mrs Pekarová. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to Mr. Veselý's colleague. For the sake of completeness, this position he referred to was not the Academy of Sciences but the Czech Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Academy of Sciences, respectively. The professional workplace, which somehow solves the landscape, forests and these fields, supports our proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Pekarová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u10	Thank you for the floor. Actually, I don't have much to say anymore because the previous speaker answered. My colleague mentioned exactly what I wanted to say. Last week, on Friday, the Academy of Sciences, indeed the Academy of Sciences, in the words of its representatives and specifically the signatures of approximately 350 scientists, among them are several dozens of professors and professors who are dealing with this issue, which is why it supported the amendments. So this is the real opinion of this institution, which you have named, and this is also a representative of forestry faculties, etc. So it's really consistent with these experts. I've never been a match, and I'm not going to be an expert on this issue. I have always said and said that I am only the extended hand of those who really understand this and who have made amendments with us to help us deal with the situation in the woods as much as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek with priority rights, Mr Petr Bendl will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, colleagues. I have just a few of my remarks and observations on this law from the point of view of the agricultural committee, which was a guarantee committee and dealt with this issue quite in detail. I'd probably start by meeting Mr. Bláha. It's some functionary from the Duha movement. And my colleagues and I had a long discussion with him, and he asked me one basic question. [[11.10 hours]] We are in a situation, and Mrs Pekarová Adamová spoke about it, when the crisis situation in our forests is caused by the calamity of bark, and whether the calamity arose for various reasons, and there are many reasons, and it is a combination of drought, some historical work in the forest and other things, so it is just a fact. And we, or the state - the Ministry of Agriculture wants, and is ready, and we are all about to invest considerable resources in the recovery of the forest for future generations. It's our duty where it comes out, to plant it quickly and do everything we can to keep those seedlings from eating, leafy trees and other trees alive. And that Mr. Bláha asked me if it makes sense to throw away state money in hundreds of millions, maybe billions for these plantings if the cloven-hoofed animals eat it up right away. I know it's a very sensitive subject. We discussed this on the agricultural committee, so there were three agricultural ministers. Three. Minister Toman, the several times Minister of Agriculture in the past, was sitting there Minister Bendl and Minister Jurečka sat there. And neither of them, friends, sorry, coworkers, colleagues... [[Report to the O.R.]] Neither of them had the courage to open a hunting law that would somehow deal with the regulation of game. I also received many emails and analyses etc. But isn't it enough for us to follow this decision by common sense? What this Bláha says, and I do, you all know that I'm not an eco-terrorist. But just for me, and I am now expressing my personal opinion - and it was not an easy debate with the Ministry of Agriculture when their original positions were negative on these amendments. Patrik Mlynář and I were discussing with the Minister. And the Minister is also a hunter! He's also a hunter. Unlike me. In fact, here, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová came in one part of her amendment saying that it would be a good idea simply to open a forest law which many of the Houses have defended before us for various reasons. There's no point in repeating the reasons here. And now that it's in that position, according to the current legislation, that game control is up to the owner of the hunters and hunters who run it and they're renting it, and it's up to their agreement, but we have some condition that's critical, so the game control agreement should respect the critical state that we have today. And that is why we believe that it is a compromise to open this hunting law only in this matter so that the state can see if the agreement really corresponds to the condition in which the forest is. And that, of course, triggers the waves. There will be other colleagues here who will support it or not. However, I would like to ask very much in this context to support those amendments that have been agreed by the Guarantee Committee after a long debate with the Ministry of Agriculture. Because I understand the criticism of hunters who say, and they suggest it in that letter, so that we deal with it in the form of a public expert debate. I'm sure you do. However, the cloven-hoofed animals can't wait until we discuss it, can they? They go there and they eat the seedlings. So here from my side, it's up to all of you, the entire Chamber of Deputies, to ask us to just go to the compromise. I know that, of course, at this point, I am also speaking against some of the amendments that are from the Ministry of Environment's workshop. I'm aware of that. We discussed it with the Minister. And somehow it's going to be the vote. However, the Ministry of Agriculture is still responsible for the activities in the forest by law. When it's different, if the time comes, then maybe some of these proposals will have a chance of success. So very briefly from my point of view as chairman of the agricultural committee. I know it's a revolutionary change to some extent, that we're opening a law on hunting, an amendment to the Forest Act, but I think there's a chance now, given that the situation is really critical and complex, and we're mainly trying to restore the forest, whether it's the Military Forests of the Czech Republic, but also, of course, private owners, for our future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u13	I thank my colleague Faltýnek. Once again, I will ask my colleague Petr Bendl to be patient, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek and Mr Vlastimil Válek came forward with factual comments. So now a colleague of Mr Bělobrádek with a factual remark, then a colleague of Mr Válek follows. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, esteemed members of the government, First Minister Jurečka had the courage to open the law on hunting. It just didn't travel to the diaper meeting. Personally, I don't think it's too happy that he wanted to open it, I admit it. I'm in a conflict of interest, I'm the owner of both forest and forest land, and I'm a hunter at the same time. So I would like to say that I find it very unfortunate that these things have not been discussed with hunting organisations. I think the planning is very difficult. I also have concerns about some specific things. I don't know how the markers that are already mentioned are going to be. If it's hearing, it's ears, or in some parts of the country, it's a wild boar's jaw. And practice has shown that it's not quite that easy. The next thing you know, the cloven-hoofed animals, no doubt, are. But I wonder if many associations - and I warn that both the user and the wanker often overlap, that it is the same thing, that they practice hunting in their own direction, so I wonder what they will do with it by those who have rented hounds and say they can bail on it, because the age average of the hunters there is such that they simply are not physically able to increase it in a huge way then the shot. So what's going to be done about it, what are those wankers gonna do about it? Are they gonna hire any hunters? I don't know. I think it would certainly be appropriate to discuss this with hunting organisations as well. Because practice can then show that it will go around. And we all know that we need to reduce the cloven-hoofed animals. We all know we have to change the song of the forest. All of this has to do with it. I'm not interested in animals eating up my forest either. Of course. It means, it's just whether all the details are premeditated. And one final point. The letter that came to us last night was signed, if I'm not mistaken, by Dean Turčáni of the Faculty of Forestry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u15	Thank you, Mr Bělobrádek. Mr Vlastimil Válek now, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I never knew I'd have to study as much about something I didn't understand until then as about forestry and as about this law. I haven't spent so much time with anything in the last two months of my life as I have with this issue. [[11.20 hours]] I thank, through Mr President, for the very correct and reasonable words of President Faltýnek. And let me paraphrase: common sense is an amazing thing. If it works, we don't deal with D1 in the Chamber of Deputies. And unfortunately, this is also the case for these regulations, which this law defines. I - and I think it will be in the discussions - do not think it would be better to cut some of the paragraphs and not approve of the whole, but certainly it will be a question of the discussion that will take place here. I appreciate the hunters immensely, I greatly appreciate the gamekeepers, and I would not like - through Mr President to my fellow folks and my foreman - to have this duel here be the biblical duel of nimrod and Abrahám. I wouldn't like that very much, because I don't appreciate these nimrods very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u17	Thank you, Mr Vlastimil Válek, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now the co-worker Petr Bendl is duly logged in and a colleague Holomčík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I will try not to add oil to the fire, because this subject is really sensitive. Although I would never have had the courage to raise the hunting law, the Ministry of Agriculture prepared it then. Members of the Chamber of Deputies did not have the courage, as they were gradually all massaged across the political spectrum by those covered by the law. However, I think that even the negotiation of forest law has shown us that the time for the opening of hunting law is here, and that even if it is not a very simple debate, because the conflicts within hunting activity, the management of forests, the management of meadows and fields, the conflicts of owners and hunting associations are quite a lot and finding a balance in them will not be at all simple... environmentalists and pseudo-protection. It's just that the debate is going to be difficult, but I think the hunting law is supposed to be open. I'm a little worried the Chamber of Deputies won't do it after all. I derive from the fact that we all agree on the water problem in the Czech Republic with the lack of water, and when I proposed here at the Chamber of Deputies meeting to deal with water law, the government coalition refused to discuss it. So the question is, if the courage is to discuss the hunting law, even if we need it, from the point of view of all the parameters that the Minister and my previous speakers have been talking about. I would like to put a label on it, and I am not afraid to say that it is an adhesive because we are talking about the Forest Law and we are discussing the provisions of the Hunting Act - I say for myself that I will support those provisions concerning the regulation of cloven-hoofed game and I supported them on the Agriculture Committee. Even if we pour pure wine, all of us who move or move in it, we must be aware that it is not a ten-zero. The problem is much wider and the fact that we did not discuss it, after all, the Ministry of Agriculture also mentions in its opinion, which it originally gave to some parts of the bill. I'm just gonna repeat this for those of you who haven't had the chance. Which I do not take as criticism because the Ministry of Agriculture has changed its original opinion that it wants to deal with cloven-hoofed animals. For me, when this paragraph appears in the law, it will be as if a greater hope that pressure will rise to resolve and open the hunting law and possibly to modify some of the things that carry some of the proposals proposed by the colleague in those points G7.3.1. 3.8. proposes to amend if necessary. As the Ministry points out here that such intervention, if adopted, would entail a substantial increase in the cost of the performance of state administration and hunting, and apparently the need for personnel strengthening of the authorities of state hunting, especially at first instance. So he's aware that it's not entirely clear and that it's very sensitive. I imagine somebody won't support it at all. I am convinced that by supporting this paragraph, I will also support greater efforts to open a professional debate on forest management and hunting as such. President Faltýnek here spoke of the need for funds. Among other things, this bill also supports this, helping non-state forest owners to address the situation associated with barkworm. The minister mentioned it. This is the thing that is needed, because they are getting into financially and organisationally unsolvable situations and here is a chance to help them. I therefore agree with this and I support it. I just want to remind you, I don't know how much you know when the financial regions in the Czech Republic were constructed, so they got an item from the state budget that concerned the support of non-state forest owners. Some regions, as far as I know, have stood up to this and still hold the financial amount there, even though it is not muffled, and seek and provide support for planting, restoring the forest and so on. Some regions don't do that. I will certainly intersect the Minister of Agriculture on this matter to merely present some research, as the regions actually perceive it, because not only the state, but even the regions should help, because they have received funding for this. I think it's enough that I didn't pour too much oil into the fire. There's a lot more to this law. I believe that in some sensible form it will pass, and I will look forward to the hunting law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u19	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Before we proceed with Mr Holomčík's duly registered report, the factual comment by Jan Čižinský. Please take your word for it, Mr. Ambassador, with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u20	Thank you for the floor. Maybe I'd just like to talk to a previous speaker. I probably wouldn't use the term sticker, because the label is something that doesn't have anything to do with it, that goes into the law, and it has no connection, whereas there's a connection. The animals are just eating the trees. So I really don't think it's a stick, because it has something to do with it. Just let me talk to you about this. The Czech Moravian Hunting Unity was present in negotiations on the original Hunting Act, which was thus not discussed in the end, and, at the same time in June, July, on committees, both on agriculture and on the Committee on the Environment, these proposals were discussed. I'm sure there's no law against hunters. It's just a law for the woods. And I'd only have one more number. National forest inventory indicates that about 10.5% of trees are damaged, but all trees, including older ones, are no longer damaged by animals. But the data from 2015 shows that the total damage to young trees is over 55 percent. And if we take a leafy and fir tree, it's coming up to 90 percent. This means that I also really support a sensible approach that will enable those young trees to grow up. Like I said, it's not against someone, it's really just for the woods.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u21	Thank you for keeping time. And now with priority rights, Mrs Jana Černochová. My colleague Holomčík is still in order. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. When my previous speaker here mentioned the Czech Moravian Hunting Unity, I would have allowed myself to argue with him about what information they had and did not have. I wouldn't discuss the label either. It's a sticker. What else can be put forward in the third reading behind closed doors so that the professional public does not know about it, my colleague, through the Vice-President? This is the most crystallized label this House has ever had. And I do not question the right of some colleagues to vote in favour of these stickers, I do not question what President Faltýnek said here. [[11.30 hours]] I'm not a hunter, I'm not a license holder, I'm not a C, I'm a license to do it - when I made my gun card, I decided I didn't want to do it, I just wanted to do sports shooting, so I'm not in a conflict of interest here, I'm not talking for myself. But let me still, after all that has been said here, what will be said here, what we received behind the emails, and of course we know how our e-mail pages were filled with 20,000 e-mails, which were more or less the same content, so the pressure on the members and members of this House was enormous, I think it would be fair for the other side to be heard here. You will decide as much as I will, which of these proposals you will support. It's not at all that I want to impose my opinion on someone here, but I think it's fair for this opinion to be heard here, too. So let me read the press release of the Czech Moravian Hunting Unity, which is the largest hunting organisation in the Czech Republic, which brings together 58 000 hunting ticket holders. So it doesn't bring me together, like I said before, so I'm not in a conflict of interest. It is a professional association, actively involved in activities supporting the rational management of animals and the protection of its environment, has a mandate from the Ministry of Agriculture to organize hunting tests, organizes cynological, shooting competitions and training, and is therefore also supported by the Ministry of Agriculture. Press release. In Prague 9 September 2019. "Clericals are to decide from the table the number of game in the woods, hunters are rebelling" - name. "During the negotiation of the amendment to the Forest Law, a group of Members submitted, until the third reading, an amendment to the Act on Hunting, which was infamously known in the form of the so-called. The label changes the principle of the functioning of hunting, which has existed in the Czech Republic for almost 20 years, creates hundreds of million-dollar costs for the state and unacceptable limits the rights of landowners and persons exercising hunting on them. The breeding of game is not for land owners and hunters to decide, but for state officials so-called from the table. The Chamber of Deputies will decide on it without any public discussion on Wednesday, 11 September 2019.' The press release further states: "The amendment of members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Vlastimil Válek, Dana Balcarová and Radek Holomčík to the law of the forest is an important intervention not only in the way of the management of the animals in the Czech Republic but also in private ownership. [[Both TOP 09]] [[Both Pirates]] The obligation to plan the management of animals is transferred from users of chasing to the state. If this amendment is adopted, landowners will lose the right to decide on the management of game on their land and hunters, hunters, they will lose the possibility of animals, taking into account local conditions, for which they usually pay land owners. Animal management plans will newly be set by civil servants from the table." Next, the press release states: "This is the most important change in the concept of hunting in the Czech Republic over the past almost 20 years. A change in hasty, unthought-out, unthought-out, pushed-through form of sticker just a week before the last third reading of another law." Is that the transparency, Mr Čižinský, through the Vice-President? "Czech hunters are aware of locally elevated game states, which do not benefit from the recovery of barks affected by forests, as well as the weaknesses of the current game census system. However, these problems cannot be dealt with without any public or professional discussion. According to the proposal, state officials should prepare so-called hunting farming plans, which determine, among other things, how many and what game may occur in each hunting operation, and therefore how much it may and must be hunted. Today, these plans are being prepared by hunters, hunters, in cooperation with the owners of the hunters, landowners. They take into account the interests of owners, farmers, society and game itself, in the knowledge of landscape, game, its behaviour and in accordance with their own breeding intentions. Hunters usually pay a considerable rent of CZK 100 000 per year for the possibility of animal care and the possibility of using game to landowners for the purpose of chasing and compensation for any damage caused by animals. Hunting, however, is a hobby for hunters, which is worth considerable resources and time and for which there is no substitute in society." "The state wants to decide, and hunters are supposed to pay." - Another passage of the press release of the Czech Moravian Hunting Unity. - 'If the amendment comes into force, users will buy a proverbial rabbit in a bag. They will pay landowners for exercising hunting rights. But what will be its contents? What exactly will it look like? How many animals and how many hunts will she have? It doesn't affect itself, it's going to be decided by the state. The state would actually want hunters to pay for his decision. The Landowners will be removed completely from the decision-making process,' explains the principle of the amendment by Jiří Janota, President of the Czech Moravian Hunting Unity, and adds: 'If the State is to bear the decision-making power in establishing the management plans for animals, it must also be responsible for possible failures. If hunters follow the plan, they should no longer replace forest owners and farmers with animal damage. The power to decide is also responsible for this decision.' End of quote. Similarly, it is not possible to appeal against the tent plan for animal care. This will be prepared by the state administration on the basis of its own assessment, which will be revised after three years of validity, at the cost of the user's chasing. Therefore, if a government authority sets a plan for the care of animals inappropriately, the chasing user will have to pay the rent for at least three years, manage the chasing at his expense, even if he has to do so in a way, or with goals he does not agree with. This also has to do with the impact on the already fragile economy of chasing users, hunting associations, where it can easily happen that after the loss of influence on self-management planning costs will exceed the revenues, associations will be lost and their socially beneficial role for animals, nature and landscape will cease to be exercised entirely. Restrictions on landowners' rights as well as new administration. Not only will the user's proposal smash up a lot of new administration, but it will also give them an obligation to hand over proof of catching game to the state administration." - That's what my colleague Bělobrádek was talking about. I quote: "This is supposed to be about something. I just don't like to imagine queues of hunters in front of the office every morning and the joy of an official and from an office full of rotting ears of game, including parasites," says Janota's obviously hasty preparation of the proposal. "Proposers of the proposal are allegedly based on the Saxon model of hunting farming. They not only twist it, but also try to copy something that cannot be copied into the Czech environment. In Saxony, owners do not rent chasing, but decide how the animals will be managed. In the Czech Republic, tenants - chasing users - enter into the game, and business decisions are made by the designers trying to expropriate the owners and tenants for the benefit of the state. The more paradoxical situation then occurs where the land owner is also a user of hunting -"
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u23	I will interrupt you, my colleague, and ask the House for peace. I believe that some are not interested in the facts, but I think it is necessary for everyone to have peace of mind to present their comments on the text of the law. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. "- where the animals are run according to their own will. It will also be necessary for him to order how animals are to be managed on private grounds regardless of his attitude toward the forest or game itself. The arguments of the petitioners give little confidence," says the press release. "The important argument of the petitioners is the alleged amount of damage committed by wild animals in forest growth, which is to reach CZK 7 billion per year. 'As far as I know, this is the number' - again a quote - 'the guess of the subsidiary of the Czech Forestry Society Pro Silva Bohemica, which presents it as part of the pressure campaign for increasing game hunting. However, I do not know what this estimate is based on. It certainly was not for law-makers to build their initiative on such a serious matter,' Janota marvels. The state companies of the Forest of the Czech Republic, which cares for almost half of the domestic forests, estimated the damage in the hunting year 2017/2018 to only CZK 19 million. This contrasts the anticipated costs. We consider the estimate of the petitioners - 1.4 to 2.6 million crowns - very undervalued. The assessor will have to evaluate the effectiveness of hunting and game behaviour. The average area of chasing is about a thousand hectares, approximately 1,500 football fields. Just passing through and evaluating such an area will take several days. According to experts' estimates, the cost of each evaluation will be approximately CZK 50,000. These costs shall be borne by the State. 'At 5,800 handjobs in the country, this is more than a quarter of a billion crowns, which every five years, with taxpayers' pockets, will shift to a handful of testimonial processors,' calculated by Janota. The amendment is a so-called sticker because it is being introduced as part of an amendment only to a marginally related law, with the same purpose being achieved by other means, without restricting the rights of landowners and hunters and without increasing bureaucracy. He called stickers an unconstitutional Constitutional Court in 2007. Again, Mr. Janota's quote: 'Unfortunately, I cannot explain the motivation of this sticker other than the need to rule out a public debate on it. The proposal, which changes the previous concept of hunting and restricts property rights in the style of us without us in the form of an inconspicuous label to third reading, must clearly reject Czech-Moravian hunting unity,' continues Janota. The Czech Moravian hunting unity is aware that the game states are locally elevated and the method of counting the game is not ideal. However, there are other ways of dealing with the consequences of barking calamity, without the need to limit the rights and increase bureaucracy on the part of the state," says the press release. Another quote, and we're already going to the finals: 'We'd like to discuss the possibilities of contributing hunting to the restoration of forests. In many places hunters work hand in hand, they participate in the restoration of the forest themselves. However, any amendment to the law must go through a standard public and professional discussion in commentary proceedings. We cannot agree with restricting the rights of hunters not only by this hasty and non-standard way," concludes Jiří Janota. The conclusion of the press release: "Czech Moravian Hunting Unity calls on Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic not to allow restrictions on part of property rights of landowners, the freedom to establish private relations between holders and users of chasings, or to intrude on the rule of law on additional stickers and reject this amendment designated as G7. The expropriation and transfer of decision-making to the state cannot be a solution to the problems of Czech forests without a wider social discussion." End of quote from the press release of the Czech Moravian Hunting Unity. I would just add that if I am not mistaken, Minister, there is a hunting law in the commentary proceedings, so it might be nice to hear from the Minister here when he assumes that the hunting law will be passed, because many of us really have doubts as to how it should be done today and how to vote. If we are assured that this legislative standard, which would also solve things comprehensively, will soon be presented, then I think we are in a slightly different situation than under some pressure, so that we think here that we all want to fight for our healthy forests. We want to fight for them, but not under pressure in the form of a sticker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u25	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. She made five factual remarks. The first is my colleague, Mrs Pekarová, Vice-Bělobrádek Pikal, Vlastimil Válek and Jan Čižinský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm excused, so I won't be able to participate anymore, so just lightning. With the write-off of the MMJ, it needs to be said that it is not the only hunting organisation, that is, the hunters are much more. Second thing. Today, the owners of these chasing users can agree on this, which means, if they have damage there, they have an impact on what the plan is made. Surely the hunting management plan is not perfect. The cloven-hoofed animals are multiplied, damaging the woods. That's all true. This is not a Saxon model that's being offered. And I would like to emphasise the practical impact. You who are mayors, or you who are deputies, so imagine, first of all, that you may have to raise the officials, that at that office - I wonder, the minister could certainly answer that, because this is obviously a by-product of animal life, which means they'll have some kind of rendering box where the ears they're gonna put will pay for it - or who's gonna pay for it when it's taken away by the rendering companies? Another thing that is. Take it, it's July now, steam, they find the fall, it's rotting, so they cut off their ear, they put it in their fridge at home because it's Friday, which means Monday they can bring it to the office. The wife's excited because we put the rotting ear in the fridge between the food or the freezer, or we leave it outside to rot, I don't know what it's gonna look like. They'll bring it to the office. They'll say - great. They're gonna make a comma, put it in a rendering booth. And I can go on like this. That means I'm definitely in favour of reducing the animals. I'm all for it, whether there's some adaptation or some version of the Saxon model. Surely we must reduce the animals as planned, the hunting is not perfect, the number of game is, but it is the owners. First, they should not be excluded from speaking out because they are owners. And second of all, I'm very curious about what it's gonna look like when the hunters say they can blow it off, and the users leave, and how is the keeper gonna do it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u27	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for your point of order. We continue with the factual remark made by Mrs Markéta Pekarová, a colleague of Vojtěch Pikal will be prepared. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u28	Thank you. Much has been said, so I will try to respond at least to the most fundamental. Through the President, Mrs Černochová, you are wrong that it is some now suddenly discovered amendment that appeared only now before the third reading. I'm a member of the Environment Committee. Colleagues are members of the Committee on Agriculture. And we have put these things in due course on these committees, which means it was before the holidays. We presented these proposals, and the one we are discussing most now was presented in May of this year. So definitely the time to get to know its contents here was long and discussion on the committees also took place. So the fact that the majority did not lean on it, at least not at first, led to the fact that we presented it for second reading here in plenary. It's not true that it's something completely new that's only just come up. [[11.50 hours]] Similarly, it is not an adhesive, because if something is actually touching the forests and also the management of them, it is the state of the game, its quantity, and therefore, of course, how it can be regulated, which is addressed by the law on hunting. Furthermore, the petitioners certainly do not deprive landowners or hunters of the right to decide on hunting planning. That's untrue, please. The proposal states that the user, i.e. hunters, will first submit the documentation for drawing up plans for the approval of the holder, i.e. owners, and then the state administration, taking into account the independently prepared assessment of the ecosystem status, will decide on the amount of the hunting plan. Of course, there are corrective mechanisms in case someone disagrees. Even existing legislation does not allow individual owners to decide on the status of game, in particular smaller parcels, which must be attached to one of the hunts and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u29	Madame, your time has ended for a point of fact. Now Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u30	Thank you for the floor. It has already been partly explained by my previous speaker, but I still have to ask about the bombing claims that have been made here, that it is a sticker and that it is loaded to the third reading, because nothing can be submitted by the third reading. It's got to be obvious here. Nor is there a public debate going on. This is a public debate. I greet the public. However, I would like to address the rapporteur by your means, Mr President, to state when this proposal was first introduced in the legislative process in order to avoid the claim that it was only a week to get to know him, which seems absurd to me. And then I'd like to comment on the fact that maybe the material doesn't have anything to do with each other and that it's a material label. I just can't agree with that. It is quite obvious that if you care about forest seedlings in such a way that they are not eaten by animals, with which I have a personal experience, you simply cannot claim that the issue of catching and regulating the condition of game is not related to forest law and forest cultivation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Vlastimil Válek now. A colleague of Čižinský will be prepared, then a colleague of Marian Jurečka and Mrs Černochová. Everyone with factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u32	Thank you very much. I'll sign up for a proper discussion later, but I just want to respond. Thank you very much through the President. Of course, I read the lyrics, too, and now I've heard it from the second good presentation. And I totally understand what hunters say because they just defend their interests. That's logical. Everyone defends their interests. That's quite legitimate. It's logical. They just don't see the forest, they don't see the mushrooms, they don't see anything, they see the animals they want to shoot in the way they like. And they admit there's a lot of animals. They admit that the animals are destroying young trees. They admit he's doing damage. They have no proposal for a solution, but they use all legitimate tools to delay any solution as far away as possible. And that's all perfectly fine, and I don't see any problem at all, because that's how anyone who defends the interests of a particular association, a particular group. That's the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Čižinský, also with a factual remark. A colleague of Jurečka will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u34	Thank you for the floor, too. The situation is pretty clear. It's just that the woods suffer because the animals are too much. The forest owners are often really desperate, because the data from 2015 according to the latest inventory of damage from animals on the forest management of the Czech Republic simply shows that almost all young leafbreads and fir are damaged on a quarter of our country's territory, over 90 percent of them are damaged. So it's not wise to throw your hands at it and do nothing at all. This really is not a reasonable situation. When I'm actually quoting 90 per cent on a quarter of the territory, half of the territory is more than 75 per cent, so obviously the number, if there's a number that says the damage is 19 million, we all feel that it's not possible, because one thing is the damage we're looking at on those trees that aren't eaten, because a lot of seedlings are eaten before it's even possible to say in any way that they were drunk, but we also have to realize how much all the fenced trees cost, all the individual protection to grow anything at all. And it also needs to be said, and I really don't want to point it out, it's not a measure against someone, it's a measure for those forests. But we really need to realize that many forest owners don't ask questions, and they're actually just suffering from the situation that is. The theory that the forest owner really has an effect on what's going on in the woods - he has some responsibilities, you try to fulfill them, but he fails to fulfill them simply because the game is too much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marian Jurečka's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr President, Minister, I think this is one of the most important laws that we are discussing in the Chamber of Deputies during this parliamentary term. Unlike all tax laws and others, which we can change in a year or two without any greater impact on the future, this law has an impact on the future of the next six eight generations, for the next 80 to 120 years. At this time of year, depending on how these foresters start acting, we're going to influence it. Anyway, here's the debate we're having. In addition to the fact that the law even gives us a chance to pay compensation to small-scale forest owners, especially the region of Vysočina is affected in such a huge way, so today we are also talking about this goal, which means dealing with the catastrophic state following climate change. And, of course, this also has to do with the damage caused by the animals that are created here, and they are huge, and the numbers have fallen here. And now I dare say I don't agree that it's a sticker. I also thank the Ministry of Agriculture, which, after the debates that have been going on here for the last four months, at least in the part of Mrs Pekarová's amendment to Adamová, changed its position because desperate people are doing desperate deeds. And today, many forest owners are in a desperate situation when they are restoring the forest, and the damage is disproportionate. For most chasing users who behave fairly and responsibly as good farmers, we do not solve this problem at all. They will not be affected here by this mechanism, which gives some chance to the owner of the forest in a situation where he is unable to negotiate with the user so that the official in the village with extended authority can look at the damage committed by the animals, quantify them, adjust the hunting plan in the future and lead to the situation of the game in the locality to decrease. Of course, if he's here in six months, in a year's time, a comprehensive amendment to the Hunting Act, he can take care of these things, he can improve them. Oh, please, let's not put this on hold. Because I've been in a situation, I've been preparing the novel for two years as a minister, I've brought it here, it hasn't moved here for a year to negotiate. It was not the will of the Members to put it on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the factual remark made by Mrs Černochová. And entered into the debate is colleague Holomčík. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't think this standard would make any sense of the label in anybody if, at the same time - at the same time - there was no hunting law in the commentary proceedings. No one could have thought of that. You have put this argument in the hands of the hunters in vain. They devote their energy here, their time, their professional insight into this law, which is in the commentary process. But somewhere in July, in the summer holidays, this design was inserted into the system. I suppose it didn't occur to anybody when he was sure that the law was being negotiated in commemorative proceedings as a hunting law, that at the same time someone from the Chamber of Deputies would be dealing with this in a non-standard way. That's what bothers me. And otherwise, what I read to you here, I quoted the word from the press release. So now it's as if you don't address your comments on the content of the text to me, but address who's the author. It just seemed fair to me when there are other opinions here to read the opinion of this large group of residents. And as I'm saying, there wouldn't be any question marks in anybody unless there was also a commentary on the hunting bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague, Holomčík, will wait a little longer because she has applied with the factual remark of Mrs Markéta Pekarová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u40	Thank you for the floor. My colleague, I have a very good relationship with you through the President, and I will blame you, but we usually do. In any case, you are not here for the first year, so you know very well how amendments work. And I know that you are not a member of either committee dealing with this issue, neither for the environment, nor for agriculture. So I would like to say to you that we who are in these committees, I, in this environment, colleague Válek in agriculture, have put forward amendments in due course during the discussion after the first reading here in plenary, when the matter came to committee, and this was already a part of it. So let's not twist here that it wasn't until sometime during the summer vacation. We have, once again, announced that we have this intention and that we are going to present it, including this change here, already in May of this year, so it was publicly known information. And now, please, let's not give the impression that this is some kind of non-standard procedure and something like that. I understand that some associations are trying to manipulate this way, and I strongly oppose it. It's not like that. It's just the standard procedure we've chosen. And here in this case, we have the same right as each of the 200 Members, so we have done so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u41	Mrs Černochová will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u42	Thank you. I can confirm our very correct relationship with my colleague, but I'm sorry, I just really need to figure out here when it was inserted into the system. Well, maybe we're all living in a bubble here, thinking that somebody's watching what we're discussing in some subcommittee somewhere, what we're talking about here. Not everything. There's something the public is watching, something the public isn't interested in. If the design was inserted into system 12. 7. So I'm not lying, I'm telling you the truth that it was during the summer vacation, when there's also a commentary process going on here. 12. 7. it was possible for the public to become familiar with this proposal by publishing this proposal in a standard manner on the website of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u43	Thank you. The following will be Mrs Pekarová's factual remark, and then Vice-President Pikal will speak with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u44	Thank you for the floor. Well, let me remind you of those who don't know, for example, who are watching this transmission. Committee meetings shall be public. The negotiations of the Environment Committee, which I am a member, are regularly attended by representatives of various groups, including those we are talking about here today. Likewise, and I'm sure the members of the Committee on Agriculture, as well as you, who are on the Committee on Defence and Security, will confirm that, of course, you have the opportunity to take part in these negotiations, although I have not seen you attend. So I just want to make a statement here that we're not really doing anything that's going to be out of the ordinary and that the public wouldn't know about until during the summer holidays. It's just not like that. But I don't want to extend this debate because it's really about engineering, and we're supposed to talk about the law, and we're supposed to talk about his stuff. You were quoting, let's say, some statement, some opinion. I could endlessly quote opinions that are the opposite, and I'm not doing that, because we really want to do this thing as such. But what I have already said in my opening speech is that the amendment that concerns hunting, i.e. G7, is good when we vote together and not just in individual parts, because then they will not be able to create such misunderstandings and such different interpretations of what is really there, because it is precisely the kind of downside of the proposal that creates a whole series of doubts and disinformation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u45	We will continue with the factual remarks. Vice-President Pikal, then Vice-President Černochová and Mr Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u46	I would just like to thank you for recognising that the press release in question was false, because the proposal was not submitted a week before the third reading, but 12. 7th at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u47	Thank you. Mrs Černochová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u48	Thank you. I still have to respond to Mrs Pekarová Adamová. All its amendments have been inserted into the system 12. 7. That day, a second reading took place. Mrs Pekarová Adamová through the Vice-President, like the people who came there, as you say, to hear it, so how were they supposed to get the information? Were they supposed to wait for you to put it in the system? Yes. I am on two committees, and there it is, therefore, that we are having a debate on this proposal before reading the second, when it comes to a serious law. And only if there's a majority consensus, then we can agree whether we go the way of the law, like you go the way you do, or wait for the law to be opened. Here, on the basis of what I am now saying, all your amendments have been inserted into the system 12. 7. but on that day there was a second reading and these people could no longer respond, so here it is illusionary to think that someone could have made a difference. He couldn't make a difference because you did it on the same day. If you put it in front of me, then I'd be right about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u49	Thank you. Mr Jurečka, then Mr Koten and then Mr Kott, all factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u50	Thank you. I'd try to get that back from the debate that's going on here about the terms, a little rationally, to the point of the problem. Let me just remind you that on the agricultural committee, we discussed this proposal even before the holidays. It was the first time we had a debate. The debate on this proposal has been going on for over three months. And even the reflection of the Ministry of Agriculture's progress, which actually said at first that it would not want to accept this consideration, had a negative opinion, and after these discussions, it finally leaned towards at least part of the amendment to give a positive opinion, shows that the debate here was rather intense. And I just want to remind you that this principle is based on the prepared amendment to the hunting law, which was prepared in the past period, which was discussed in public circles for almost two years, passed through the government, reached the House, and this amendment actually, its construction, is based on the principle contained in the hunting law. And by the way, let me just say this: on the basis of personal experience, let's not expect us to present some sort of regulation of the hunting law, on which the entire agricultural and forestry public is absolutely 100% agreed. Unfortunately, such a precious moment will never occur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u51	Thank you. Mr Koten, factual point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would also like to return this discussion to a material level, and I have to stand up for my colleague from ODS here in everything she has said. I was just wondering which of you Members sitting here had the proposal physically in his hand. So I don't quite think for myself or the Czech Moravian Hunting Unity that the way to save our forests is to shoot all the animals in those woods. I don't think so. On the contrary, I think that maybe a hundred, maybe more years here is a measure called a fenced block. The fence is used to protect smaller crops, so that the animals do not destroy them. And in that, I think there's a pretty good solution. [[12.10 hours]] On the other hand, I must state another quite interesting phenomenon. I got a couple of e-mails, me. So from hunters in our country in the Highlands and from the Czech Moravian Hunting Unity, but I must also ask you: How many spam mails did you receive to support these amendments? I have to say, the IT department's been busy here all weekend, because these spam messages came in 200,000 and it wrote almost an e-mail server to the Chamber of Deputies. And I don't think it's right to use such coercive actions on our legislator. Who, then, arranged these spam attacks? Or who paid for them? I can only ask questions. I'm not pointing at anyone. I'm just asking who it's good for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u53	Thank you. Mr Kott, Mr Válek, after him, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to calm the situation a little, because the two previous speakers who are dealing here, when and by whom it has been inserted into the system, certainly the colleague of the Committee on the Environment knows that this has been discussed in the environment and discussed in May. And the fact that it didn't go through is another matter. And it was inserted into the system just before the second reading. Well, that's just to explain, so that we don't have each other here, that it was at the last minute, it was actually classified first. And the second thing is, of course, hunting unity represents some kind of opinion here over the long term, and it certainly can't change it this fast. And what was accepted, as Mr. Faltýnek said here, by compromise, is what we are doing to save what we want to plant there in the future. So I think the debate at this level should probably be over, and let's move on, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u55	Thank you. Mr. Válek, Mr. Pražák after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u56	Thank you. I was scared of myself along the way, but I'll say it: I'm physically the design, basically, even though I presented it, never had it in my hand. I always have it electronically. So now I don't know exactly what's physically, but if that's when it was electronically available, it was electronically available when it was loaded, that's for sure. And the second thing is, when you take how many emails came in, I don't know how to define spam again, but I answered them, and oddly enough, I got my autographs back. I don't really think it's spam. Because when I get spam and accidentally answer it, I usually get an answer. That means, I suppose it was the people who wrote the e-mail, the texts of the e-mails were very similar, and I answered, like, 60, 70 of those e-mails, because at first I answered regularly. And I will honestly tell you why I answered - because there was Pekarová, Filipová, Holomčík and not Válek, and it bothered me. You can laugh. So I answered and Válek was one of the translators, so that was the reason I answered, and then they all answered me. It's obviously been bothering these people. Strangely enough, they found out about it, and they didn't know about the hunter. I understand that they probably did not assume that this was something that the Chamber of Deputies dared to deal with. And she dared. I've got 45 seconds left, so I'll get back to my common sense. I work with him all the time. The Chamber of Deputies, that is, I used to think that before I sat here, I would say the quintessence of common sense. And every time I'm convinced of it, I go out in the hallway to those baskets where it's sorting, and it still says what's supposed to be thrown into -- and there's nothing in the first one, and there's nothing in the other four. That's what I'm going to begin to doubt about the common sense of always, even the ability to read. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u57	Thank you. Next, Mr. Pražák, Mr. Jurečka, Čižinský, Pikal, Holomčík, will speak, after which Mr. Jurečka, Mr. Čižinský, Pikal, Holomčík, will make factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u58	Good noon. I do not want to question the opinion of the Czech Moravian Hunting Unity at all. I have a lot of hunters around me, I appreciate their work, everything. But only two things. As for the fences that we heard here earlier, I think that if anyone thinks we're gonna sail the forest, and that's gonna solve it, then where are the animals gonna go? Of course, it will go to agricultural parcels that will be around or to those that will not be secured by this. So these fences, which are now, are doing some kind of protection role, but it's certainly not a solution to help us. To us farmers, when I put it that way. And the other thing. I just want to get back to presenting the minutiae. I understand that, of course, it's good to hear and threaten to be somewhere with the pardon of the stinking minutiae in the offices, etc. But I don't think that if it's today that the wild animals are more or less in the possession of the hunter, or hunter, I don't know why the hunter, if he were to present the banner, should leave something at that office. He should take it back, damaged, like scrambled hearing, take it back, and destroy it in exactly the same way they're destroying it today, the skin. So it's not about leaving it in the office. The only problem, I believe, could be when the animals are found dead. But certainly not in classically shot animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u59	Thank you. Mr Jurečka, after him Mr Čižinský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u60	Thank you. I have to respond here to Mr Koten of the SPD, because unfortunately his reasoning about fenced products is completely out of the ordinary reality. One, a fenced block is always a load. It makes sense to do a really small area, when I do a forest renewal, somewhere effective it is within half a hectare. But if a colleague I don't see here now was to see what the forests look like after the catastrophic mining in the Czech Republic in the last three or four years, they are unfortunately the area of units, even in the case of military space Libá tens of hectares. I can't imagine how, from the point of view of the financial costs in practice, such huge fences would be realized. Now my colleague Pražák mentioned the problem in fact - where the animals will then be. It's just not the way. This is not the solution. Now, to Mrs Černochová, through Mr President. Please, let us remember that this principle, which is proposed here, will actually help the most tiny owners of the forest. Because they have the biggest problem with coping with the damage, if they can make a profit, they can drop out, so doing those subsequent plantings after the animals damage the seedlings is enormously difficult for them. I have a lot of reactions from the Czech Republic, where for several years in a row these tiny owners, whether they are forest land or even field land, are demanding some solution in the village with extended scope, but unfortunately, in many cases, the officials are ignoring it because they simply do not have this mechanism, which we are now trying to implement, which would clearly give a methodology, what the damage is, how it is assessed and how it should be reflected in the next year's hunting plan. So I understand that someone might be a little disillusioned that he didn't have more time to discuss these things for another six months or a year, but the situation is so serious that we think that at least now we're gonna take this step and then he's gonna follow it up, if the minister says within a year and a half, a big amendment to the hunting law, so thank God for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u61	Thank you and it is Mr Maria Jurečka who apologizes today from 13:00 to the end of the working day and on Thursday, September 12th, tomorrow, for the whole day for working reasons. Mr Čižinský has the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u62	Thanks for the word. Well, Mr Koten said a strong opinion and left. My previous speakers disproved something. I'd like two more intel. It sounded from him that someone wanted to kill the animals. That is, of course, nonsense. It's about finding a balance, no one wants to kill the animals. So it was really manipulative information. And then to comment on people's interest. Well, it's a good thing people care. Mr Jurečka was right about the fact that he said that this is a very important law, one of the most important in the four years we will be passing here. And it's a good thing people care. And we, as Members, are paid to communicate with people. If anyone feels harassed by e-mails from people who care about our woods, or feel at all harassed by communication with citizens, he should not be an MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u63	Thank you. Vice-President Pikal, with a factual remark. After that, with a factual remark, Mr Holomčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u64	Most of the previous claims have already been refuted by my previous speakers. I'm going to turn to one piece of information that said that 200 grand is some brutal spam attack and that it had to be paid for. So please, 200 grand, if there's 200 of us here, that's about a thousand citizens who care -- it doesn't seem like a surprising number to me. If every citizen bypassed us 200 using an app that's very easy to write, it doesn't seem crazy to me, and there's no need for some complex technique and some highly paid and sophisticated tools. Tools "Write to them" and similar are operated through free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u65	Thank you. Mr Holomčík, who is the only one who is signed up with a point of fact and is also entered in the debate, so if you do not want to make use of the factual point and speak directly in the debate, you can do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u66	Thank you for the floor. So I will take advantage of this, and I will finally come forward in a proper debate. I was about to have a positive speech where I wanted to call on us to think about the future, but what happened here seems totally scary. And I'd like to respond to one thing. I'd like to say that it might be nice if we finally start telling the public the truth. If there's a letter that says there's a sticker, I'll take it. Colleagues have already said that simply to claim this proposal, which relates to the amendment in substance, and even the law of the forest has a partial provision that amends the points in the law of hunting, that it is an adhesive, is simply a dusty lie. I don't think that's an unconscious lie. It's just a dirty lie. As for the fact that it has not been discussed with anyone, that we have sewn it up somewhere, somewhere in an eco-terrorist organization's headquarters, to dismantle this country. So here's how the proposal was made. But please, it goes even further into history that the proposal, factually and in some parts and text, is based on some of the provisions of the hunting law, as it was submitted in the previous period. The law, please nicely, was in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings for one year. And guess who was one of the participants in the interdepartmental commentary? The authors of the letter. So the fact that it wasn't discussed is just a lie. Next. And if I want to go further into history and think of the national forestry plan and other documents that have been in some way valid since 2008 and were accepted later, the principle that we are applying in our amendment simply comes from these - in one case eleven years old but from a number of strategic documents. So how long do we want to have a professional discussion? Eleven years isn't enough? [[In an elevated voice.]] Damn it. Sorry, sorry about that. I missed it, but I'm really upset. And there's one more thing in this letter. I don't really want to get involved in these professional things, because reality isn't black and white, no one is saying that new facts aren't just gonna bring new problems, but I don't really like the negatives of the damage caused by the bite of the oversized game. I'm just gonna take the liberty of reading a little shut-down here. According to the latest damage inventory mentioned by the Institute of Forest Economic Treatment, 64 percent of young leafy people and eaters are injured on average on the areas under renovation, more than 75 percent in the middle of the Czech Republic and 100 percent in the quarter of the Czech Republic. The above financial calculation of the damage to animals is correctly stated, but it is due to an existing, nowadays non-compliant methodology, which does not take into account a number of factors. The number of damages is inefficient and inadequate to take into account all the damage suffered. Only the Forests of the Czech Republic had in 2018 the amount of almost 800 million CZK earmarked for measures against animal damage - paint, protection, fencing, improvement and so on, which is about 40 percent of all costs incurred. So this figure of seven billion can be real if you count all of the costs, and it's also written that it's just an estimate. I mean, this isn't really a reaction to some amendment, to the fact that somebody from some secret journalism has learned that we're up to something here with Ms. Pekarová and others. In fact, it is a response to a change in the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, because as long as it looked like it was going to be a proposal for which twenty-thirty Members would vote, there was no reason to define themselves against it at all. The moment the Ministry changed its mind, when it went through the agricultural committee, suddenly a report like this appears. And I am disappointed that this clown shop that took place here is blocking acceptance - and in this I agree with my colleague Jurečka - one of the most important laws this House will ever discuss in this parliamentary term. Finally, I would like to return to the positive plane. I'm not going to mention the past at all, I'm going to mention the future. What is the subject of both our proposals - which we have given in cooperation with TOP 09 or TOP 09 in cooperation with us, is also a number of proposals made by colleagues from the ANO movement - has one main objective: to return forests and forest management and forest care and their restoration to forest owners, to remove the barriers that are now in the present form of the law and which are actually restricting them to enjoy the natural approaches of restoration and actually to exploit the creative forces of nature. This is what we want to change. We want to at least order something, forbid it, rather the contrary - the vast majority of these proposals are about dislodgement and about allowing foresters to take advantage of their knowledge, experience, but also to be inspired abroad by how it is done elsewhere. The last thing I want to say is that this isn't the end of our work. There are a number of other challenges, whether it is the concept of the operation of the Forest of the Czech Republic after 2020, whether it is actually a general debate on some system of state forest management, forest protection, but also state hunting management, so that legislation, whatever it is, will be old or new, so that we can have real tools, so that these laws will actually be respected. Because one of the key problems that the current forest law has - from my point of view, it is the biggest problem that the law has - is not just that it was rigid. He is, but the biggest problem is that the law just doesn't follow. So that is one of the key challenges: to look at the system of state administration so that we are able to comply with the forest law in any form. And that's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u67	Thank you. Mrs Fialová will also be speaking in the debate. Let me just remind you that in less than four minutes we will have to interrupt this point because we have another point firmly placed, but the honourable Member has the floor now. [[Mrs Purple off the microphone: Is it possible to take a break? 'Cause I can't make it.]] If you'd like to begin, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u68	Thank you for the word and the opportunity to comment on the law of the forest. I presume that three minutes really will not be enough for me to present my amendments and explain what led me to this. I'm going to put it back a little bit after this debate on hunting, even though with one of those amendments that reflects hunting, I'm going to do the same thing, but I would take it one step at a time. I was very welcome when the Department of Agriculture came up with an amendment to the Forest Law. With hope, I was opening up to find a luxurious Mercedes, spoiled, and finally we could give our forests some hope and build them so that our future generations could benefit from the future. Unfortunately, after reading, I found out we had Škoda to Octavia. I have nothing against her, also good, but only in basic equipment. Our amendments, or mine, and the colleagues that have been created here, clearly declare that we want Octavia to be exclusive at least in our equipment. And I am very glad that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken a positive approach to some of the amendments, whether they have changed their positions over time and have looked at the matter from a logical standard. I will now take some of these amendments gradually, I will not express myself where the Ministry of Agriculture has a positive point, but I would also like to open up the proposals that have been adopted at the Ministry of the Environment, namely the amendments under point B3, which release their hands to our foresters. And I'm asking the Ministry, from a pragmatic point of view, why don't we delay or extend to forestation if we don't have enough seedlings? How are we gonna deal with this? I would like answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-11-ps2017-034-02-002-215.u69	Madam, perhaps now is a good time for me to interrupt your apology. Of course, the moment we resume this point, it will be our turn to continue your performance. I have interrupted not only the Member, but I am also interrupting this point because the Chamber of Deputies has decided that at 12.30 we will be dealing with another point. It's a point number.
