ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u1	318. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Let me read the apologies. Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková apologizes today from 14.30 am to the end of today's meeting for work reasons, Mr Marek Novák apologizes today from 15 to 19 pm for work reasons, Mr Petr Sadovskýý today from 14 a.m. to the end of the meeting for work reasons, Mrs Ivana Nevludová from the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies today from 14.30 am to the end of the meeting for work reasons, Mr Marian Bojko today from 15.30 am to the end of the meeting for work reasons, Mr Jan Hamáček from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today from the afternoon meeting for work reasons, Mr Stanislav Juránek for health reasons until the end of this week, Mr Petr Třešňák from 14.30 am to 17 pm for work reasons, Mr Pavel Juříček from 14.30 am to the end of the hearing for labour reasons, Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček today from 17 am to the end of the meeting for work reasons and Mr Jan Zahradník from the afternoon meeting. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. I am now giving the floor to Mr Dominik Feri, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, and Mrs Jana Krutáková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u2	Mr. Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, for the first time today, I don't mind that you're not here, because I'm going to demand a comprehensive answer and you're not going to be limited by the five-minute limit and you're going to be able to swing around a little bit in the written answer. We moved two proposals to the committee yesterday, two major prints concerning the solution of executions and the future of execution systems in the Czech Republic. And I would be interested in your comprehensive attitude on this matter. This means whether you think that this government proposal is exhausting, whether it addresses the issue of concentration by execution well, what do you think is good at proposal 295, House press 295, or if you think there should be some compromise option out of these two prints that we can all agree on here. I beg you to answer my data box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u3	Thank you. It shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Before I pass on another word to Mrs Jana Krutáková, I will read more apologies. Mr Lukáš Černohorský apologizes for today's meeting from 14.30 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Martin Jiránek today from 14.30 a.m. to 18 p.m. due to the hearing, Mr Michal RatiborskRatiborský today from 14.30 p.m. to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Radek Holomčík today from 14.30 p.m. to the end of the day for the following reason: a protest against the statements of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic which suggest that he despises Parliament, parliamentary democracy and constitutional order of our country. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I have been given some rather disturbing information about the process of discussing waste legislation in the Government Legislative Council. However, I do not like to work with assumptions, and I would like to focus on the facts. I would like to ask you to register for waste legislation in the Government's Legislative Council, or also for a brief explanation of what specifically was the central issue at the Council in September, which was so quickly removed that in October the Government Legislative Council smoothly approved waste legislation. Thank you in advance for your written reply, ideally to my House mailbox. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u5	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mr Tomáš Martínek with an interview on the negative impact of the Turów mine on the environment in the Liberec Region and related costs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u6	Dear absent Prime Minister, mining activity in the Polish brown coal mine Turów is causing long-term significant negative impacts on the environment in the Czech Republic. Worst of all, they're on groundwater. Already in the affected area there is a drying of wells and thus a significant loss of drinking water. The affected citizens, municipalities, the Liberec Region and the Czech Republic have spent tens of millions of Czech crowns in this regard. In the future, in the event of an extension of mining activity and mining, there is an imminent threat of loss of drinking water for tens of thousands of citizens of the Liberec Region, and in this context, there is talk of an amount of up to 2 billion Czech crowns, which should be paid again from the public budget, even though Poland is required to pay these costs under EU legislation. In view of the above, I would therefore like to ask: 1. How has Poland replaced the Czech Republic so far with the costs incurred by the Czech Republic and Czech citizens in connection with the activities of the Turów mine? 2. Who and why will pay the cost of replacement drinking water supplies? 3. Why has the Czech Republic not actively opposed the planned mining with such major impacts on our territory so far? I would add that I have already sent a written interview to the Minister of Environment Brabec on 30 October, given that the deadline for the reply still does not exist, and the deadline for November 15th is when the Czech Republic should give its opinion on the expansion of mining, so it is really important to know your position and the Minister's position as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u7	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would ask for peace in the Chamber. We will proceed to another interpelation and this is the interpellation of Mr Jiří Valenta in the matter of the Prime Minister's presence at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr President of the Government, because I would very much hate to draw any conclusions on journalistic shortcuts or purposefully edited reports by some of our televisions, I have to ask you this official form. Do you really think that you will stop going to the House so that you do not participate personally and actively and engage in the negotiation of the laws of this country? I cannot believe this statement of yours, because I think that the coalition government, with the support of the KSČM, has done some good work for our citizens, and it would be a great damage to this constitutionally unheard-of approach to negate everything. [[14.40 hours]] In 2013, you publicly promised that if you were a Member, you would go to the House, and not like the other Members who have 40 percent and sit in the buffets. You have 27 per cent of the House's participation today, and I have not registered you in Parliament's interventions for perhaps a few months now. A year ago, I also interrogated you here with the fact that the participation of members of your government at the House's meetings and interpelations is more than trivial. You promised to talk to them, but you haven't set a good example for them since. At that time you had 34 percent participation in the vote and the already mentioned 27%. If, therefore, your media statement is valid and you do not really want to participate in the House's negotiations, please give up your parliamentary mandate in favour of an alternate, or urgently - and I stress this word - make a slippery mandate, which you personally proposed. You certainly have the legislative force needed to do so in the current distribution of political forces, so that any delay in this matter can, and will certainly, be considered by our citizens only as a trick which is certainly not worthy of you. Thank you for explaining the written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u9	Thank you. The next is Mr Vojtěch Munzar on the solution of the housing crisis. I'll read an apology. Mr Miroslav Rozner apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the negotiations. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, you haven't been involved since the summer, which means that the answers to our questions are not authentic, but they are de facto the answers of the officials and the Office of the Government. Still, I'll ask my question. How will you address the housing crisis and the rising prices of real estate and rents, what functional solution do you have prepared? You refused to cancel the property acquisition tax and thus reduce the costs for buyers to purchase their housing. Instead, you increase the fees for a deposit in the cadastral, you advocate an amendment to the Czech National Bank Act, in which you want to give it additional powers in the area of mortgage regulation. Your flagship does not solve housing crises, loans for young people and programs Construction of apartments doesn't work because they're not interested. As regards loans for young people, according to my information, the State Housing Development Fund registered only 347 applications this year by the beginning of October, especially for the construction of family houses, and these applications are worth CZK 411 million. The banks provided CZK 15 billion in mortgages for the whole of last year, in your opinion. As regards the programme Construction, so according to information from October, there were only 11 applications for a subsidy in total of slightly above CZK 80 million, and only three in total worth of CZK 41 million were asked for a loan by even fewer municipalities. These figures show that these train ships of government policy in the area of housing will not solve anything fundamental. It's more like, uh, popularly said, spit in the pond. So I repeat my question. What other functional solutions do you have prepared and when do you come up with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u11	Thank you. Another interpelation will be the interpelation of Mrs Věra Kovářová on white horses on state agricultural land. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u12	Dear Prime Minister, I am sorry I can't ask you again in person, since you have apologized from oral intervention, slowly traditionally. It is unfortunate that we see so little of you at the meetings, because the topics that Members and Members want to discuss with you are serious and need to know the opinion of the Prime Minister, who according to the constitutional order of the Chamber of Deputies, is responsible. The subject I would like to open today concerns the sale of state agricultural land. I read in the media about the specific fraud I'm about to describe. In the period around 2010, the Land Fund offered state agricultural land for sale. At that time, the terms of the sale were strictly set so that the land could not get into the hands of large companies. Only natural persons or municipalities could purchase them. Journalists describe in detail the case where the company came up with a cunning idea and used several natural persons from the family circuit of its owner to buy them through the land. The company provided these people - white horses - with millions of means of purchase of land and immediately after the five-year period for which it was to be pre-emptive, it transferred these land from white horses. In this fraudulent way, it has very advantageously reached lucrative agricultural land. How, then, do you view such a course? Can the Czech State seek to nullify these fraudulent transactions? Is it even possible to talk about the criminal liability of the actors in this case? Will the state file a lawsuit or even a criminal complaint? What will you and your government do to prevent such fraud and avoid unwanted concentration of agricultural land? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u13	Thank you. It shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next in line, the last two interpelations to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Dominik Feri. First interview on enforcement before 2001. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, my second interview follows up on the first one. Yesterday in my speech, I accented that we should work with specific data. And unfortunately, in public space and even here in the Chamber of Deputies, the demand for the nationalisation of executors is starting to sound. Which, of course, is a politically legitimate proposal, on the other hand, without a thorough analysis of what it looked like before 2001. In the explanatory memorandum, there is essentially talk of enforcement at some 3% level. I wonder what this data is based on, what it was derived from. Of course, it could be said that it is rather a question for the Minister of Justice, but as Prime Minister, you can take it a little more comprehensively by looking at other departments. And I would also like to know the specific references to those resources, and best if you would send me those attachments in electronic form. I can't agree with that statement. I think the system of private executors is definitely more functional than the system of judicial executors. Because if we compare 25 percent of the bailouts with 3 percent that were recovered in the courts at the time, it is, of course, incomparable. But unfortunately, this demand is beginning to wall up, and I think we should have strong arguments against it based on statistical data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u15	Thank you. And the last question, once again, of Mr Dominik Feri, about the law on lobbying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u16	Mr. absent Prime Minister, in this interview, I would like to ask about the development of the proposed government proposal for a law on lobbying, which has already been referred to the House. I wonder when it will be discussed and, in substance, what political arguments have been put forward to exclude the President of the Republic from the lobby act. The President of the Republic is a top political official of the Czech Republic, has an influence on lawmaking, whether legal, that means for example presidential veto, or even non-legal, that is the very influence on legislators, on public opinion and, of course, on individual actors. And I think it should be included in the lobbying law and process the lobby report. I would also like to know why you refused to include his advisors in the proposal for a law on lobbying, because they have a significant effect on the President of the Czech Republic and should also be conducted in the Act on lobbying. In the law on lobbying, we will all be led according to this proposal. All the MPs, sitting here. Even our assistants will process a lobby report under that law and will actually have to communicate who they were meeting with and what they discussed. And then we have the President of the Republic who should be removed from this? Excuse me, I think Mr. President's assistants are discussing completely different and more fundamental matters than my Miss Assistant. Thank you for answering my data box.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u17	Thank you. It shall again be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in writing within 30 days. I warn the Chamber of Deputies that all applications to the Prime Minister have been exhausted. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. I call on Mr Tomáš Vymazal to give an interview to the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mr. Jaroslav Martinů will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u18	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, there are currently little such undoubtedly beneficial measures as the lay use of Naloxone in an overdose of opioids. However, the Naloxone program for problem opioid users in the Czech Republic is not yet implemented. While the Naloxone pilot distribution project is part of the national strategy action plan for addiction, its scope is limited by both localisation and financial subsidies. Naloxon is currently injected in our country, although there is already a registered variant in the form of nasal spray called Nixoid in the Czech Republic. This method of application brings quite obvious advantages, but the Ministry of Health and SÚKL still did not ensure the availability of this form of Naloxone on the Czech market. Minister, is the Ministry of Health planning to implement a so-called take-home Naloxone program available to witnesses of overdose and thus save a number of human lives? If so, when? Unavailable Nixoid won't save anyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u19	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, I would therefore like to respond to your intervention. In the introduction, I would like to remind you that the medicine you cited is intended for immediate use as an urgent treatment for known or suspected overdose of opioids, which is manifested by respiratory depression or depression of the central nervous system, in or outside the environment of medical devices. At the same time, it should be noted that Nyxoid does not replace acute medical care. This medicinal product is registered in the Czech Republic but is not yet traded. Unfortunately, the problem of opioid overdose has not been avoided by the Czech Republic either, and it has become significant in recent years, especially in relation to the wave of overdose with synthetic opioids, especially in the United States of America. I would like to point out that your question regarding the availability of Nyxoid as an antidote for opioid overdose actually has two positions. One part of the question concerns ensuring the availability of this product to authorities that may come into contact with these substances during their professional activities, so in the Czech Republic they are mainly customs officials who are on the front line in the control of suspicious consignments and their analysis, and can thus be exposed to the adverse effects of these illegal drugs. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the State Institute for Drug Control, has made an effort to ensure the availability of this antidote to these primary units in such a way as to ensure their safety while respecting the legislative framework for the dispensation and use of this medicinal product as well as the training of health professionals who are expected to prescribe it. In this respect, the Ministry of Health has progressed in negotiations and a sufficient supply of this preparation, namely 130 packages, should be provided for these services. The second location of your inquiry may concern making this product available directly to users of these illegal opioids. In this context, I would like to mention that in the draft Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy for Prevention and Reduction of Damages caused or associated with Dependent Behaviour 2019-2020, the activities of the Secretariat of the Government's Drug Policy Coordination Board in the form of a proposal and possible implementation of a pilot project, as you have mentioned, are envisaged for the prevention of overdose by ensuring the availability of Naloxone, an active substance of Nyxoid, to opioid users. The amount of CZK 200,000 is earmarked for this activity. At this point, however, it should be noted that at the first stage it must be a pilot project, on which all professional companies and interested experts must find agreement. The distribution chain of this product must be ensured in accordance with the applicable legislation and the effectiveness of this intention must be evaluated at the end of the project, inter alia, taking into account in particular the nature of the product in combination with the target group for which it is intended in this case. From this point of view, therefore, I believe that the amount earmarked will correspond in the first phase to the needs of the pilot project, should be sufficient for 200 users. Unfortunately, the experience from the surrounding countries in this area is still not clear. In the opinion of physicians, administration of Naloxon with no subsequent medical care may also have negative health implications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u21	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u22	Thank you for the floor. Actually, I'd like to ask if you have any deadline, if you know when you'd like to get it started. And the second thing, if you personally pressure it to be available to laymen, not from the hands of a doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u23	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u24	Thank you. I assume that the pilot project should be implemented next year, so that is the amount that is earmarked for this, 200 users. But, as I have said about this, and this is, of course, a really highly technical issue, no, I would say political, in order to decide this, it is necessary to take into account the expert's questions on whether this would rather have no negative health implications if the layman had applied this substance without any follow-up medical care. So I think the debate is going on, as I have information from my colleagues, with experts in this area. I'm sure I'll take care of it. I admit, of course, that's not the kind of thing I'd be dealing with in the past, but thanks to this interpellation, I'm going to do it, and we're going to see how the project is going to be implemented in practice, what the pilot project will show, and if necessary, I'll give you some more information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u25	Thank you. Before we proceed to another interview, I'll read two apologies. Mrs Lucie Šafránková apologizes today from 14:45 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Radek Rozvoral today from 15.00 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. The next is Mr Jaroslav Martinů with an interview with Minister Miroslav Toman on the destruction of our forests. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u26	Hello, hello. I'll wait for the Minister for the next meeting. So I'm putting it off for the next meeting. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u27	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Vít Kaňkovský with an interview to Minister Adam Vojtěch on the matter of medical devices as far as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u28	Good afternoon. Dear Minister, I am addressing you on the issue of a major delay in the preparation of Czech legislation, which should respond to the new strict European regulation that regulates medical devices, i.e. legislation that regulates the use of several thousand types of medical devices and other medical devices, without which Czech health care cannot work even a day. European legislation on this has been approved in 2017 and the regulation of the European Parliament, the Council will apply from 26 May 2020. At this point, we do not have a law on medical devices, or in the legislative plan it was determined that the solution to the implementation of the European regulation should be fulfilled or should go to the government in May of this year. Now we are in November and so far here to the Chamber of Deputies, and as far as I know, it is not even over yet, or perhaps it is now ending, an external commentary procedure, so at this point we do not have a draft law prepared to address this issue. I want to ask you, Minister, when this bill will arrive here, I know it will be two laws, two bills, and I want to ask you how we will deal with this transitional period. Because as we know the length of the legislative process, and this is not an entirely simple issue, it is almost certain that by 26 May 2020, we will have no valid legislation to regulate the treatment of medical devices. It should be noted that this applies not only to those providers who handle them, but also to Czech manufacturers of medical devices. So I'd be happy to answer your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u29	Thank you. And I'll ask the Minister for an answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members. Ambassador, thank you for this interpellation. Of course, I'm also not entirely satisfied that the time is what it is, as you said. On the other hand, I have unfortunately inherited this particular issue to some extent. The people responsible for this are no longer at the Ministry of Health, they didn't do much, so we had some delays there, that's true. But we're working very hard on it. The legislation is indeed in the final phase of inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and will still go to the government in November. Maybe just a little bit of the genesis. It is true that two regulations have been adopted but have different effectiveness. The regulation on medical devices will be effective from 26. 5. 2020 is adapted in the form of a new Act on Medical Devices, as I say, the final phase of the settlement of inter-ministerial commentary proceedings is now underway and will definitely go to the government in November and then to the House in November. So I believe that if we are interested together, the House should have a chance to discuss the proposal very soon, ideally before the end of the year, or at the beginning of January. The regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices will not be effective until May 2022, so the existing law is now regulated to cover in vitro diagnostic regulation for this transitional period. [[15.00 hours]] The current legislation on medical devices only regulates areas that are not addressed by the European regulation or leaves them to be adapted by the Member States. This concerns, in particular, the establishment of the powers of the administrative authorities and the substance of the offences and the establishment of penalties. Furthermore, areas of purely national are regulated. This concerns in particular the area of prescription, dispensation, use of medical devices as well as the provision of service. The preparation of the draft law was consulted on the subjects concerned so that the shortcomings identified in the current regulation can be eliminated under the new draft law, which I know that Members also had some comments in this regard in particular regarding the servicing of medical devices. The issue is quite complex, as you rightly said, and it was necessary to deal with all, in many cases different, proposals of different groups and stakeholder. The way we're thinking about it is we want a maximum match. And this, of course, led to some extension and increased time intensity. But I believe we can really do this. If this had not happened, i.e. the adoption of the law within the implementation period, that is to say by 26. 5. 2020 therefore, given that it is a regulation that is directly applicable, this would be followed by that regulation, which may apply in this respect. And as I say, the proposal addresses things that are not directly addressed in this regulation in terms of sanctions and so on. So I'm sure it's a good idea for us to adopt the law, but if it's not adopted, it's possible to apply the regulation directly and proceed in accordance with it. And I believe that the time difference will not be significant at all. I'm also sorry there's a delay. It's not really a simple material, but I think the colleagues who are working on it are doing their best at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u31	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u32	Have a good afternoon again. Minister, thank you for your answer. I appreciate you admitting that this is a fundamental issue, that it's difficult, but unfortunately, you've played me a little bit on the smash. You mentioned that you were in some condition. Of course, this is true, but it is also true that the regulation came out in May 2017, quite shortly before the elections. You then became Minister of Health very quickly and also got rid of some of the professional teams that worked at the Ministry very quickly. It means to blame them today that they're responsible for it, it seems a little inappropriate to me. On the contrary, I would like to ask whether a certain personnel dryness in the Ministry's expert section on medical devices is not necessary for some reason that the preparation of the adaptation of the European regulation has been extended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u33	The Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u34	Thank you for asking. I don't think that's how it is, and it's really not about the people who are responsible working on it, and then suddenly they're just sort of going away and handing something over to each other. They just didn't hand over anything. But I don't want to deal with it, it's just history, that's what it was. I think that a number of people who work in this area could confirm that. But that's history, and it's my responsibility in particular. I don't want to make excuses for it, I'm just saying what history was like. We, when we took over, did our best, we're working on it, I don't think it's a question of some sort of personnel thirst, that today there are experts in the ministry who are able to do this, working on it in cooperation with experts from the State Institute for Drug Control. That means, the law is ready, it's worked out, it's there now, as I say, in the inter-ministerial commentary process, settlement, and it'll be ready to meet all the requirements for professional requirements. I don't think there's a problem in this regard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u35	Thank you. Jan Čižinský, with an interview to Minister Richard Brabec on the position of the Czech Republic on the continuation of mining in the Polish mine Turów, is next in line. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am following up on the interpellation of my colleague Adamová Pekarová on the expansion of the Polish mine Turów, which took place here on 17 October 2019. For colleagues who are not following this case, I sum up. It is the expansion of a brown coal mine in close proximity to the border with significant negative environmental impacts, especially in the Liberec Region. Next week, the deadline during which the Czech Republic is to send its final opinion to the Polish party on the plan to continue mining. You, Minister, stated in your reply to the above-mentioned interview: "We will do everything we can to defend the interests of Czech citizens, even if we are to go into some judicial dispute. " However, according to my information, your ministry has prepared a positive final opinion, despite the fact that experts have not shown that the measures proposed by Poland to prevent the impact on citizens of the Czech Republic will indeed be effective. It's about the aperture that's supposed to prevent the water drop. However, doubts are also about the alternative drinking water supply project, its financing and sufficient capacity. You yourself, Minister, in reply to your colleague, mentioned delays in the transmission of information from the Polish side. I would therefore like to ask you whether you have discussed with the Polish party the extension of the deadline by which the Czech Republic is to send its opinion and, where appropriate, the outcome. Then I would like to ask what your ministry leads to a proposal for a positive opinion on a project that has such a fundamental negative impact on the Czech Republic. You said you were prepared to defend the interests of citizens at the cost of a lawsuit. I would consider the issue of a negative opinion or at least delaying the deadline for issuing an opinion as a primary tool for defending citizens' interests. Why isn't the Czech Republic using legal possibilities and further mining with liquidation effects on drinking water actively resisting? I'll ask for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u37	I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for asking. I was the one who said this morning at the Uhersky Ostroh interpelling, that I think it's some kind of seventh of an interview with Uhersky Ostroh. And I think this may be the tenth interpellation to Turów. So I'm sure the subject is familiar. I want to assure you, my colleague, by your means, Mr President, that what I have said at the previous interventions by Mrs Adamová Pekarová, as well as what I have said to your colleagues from various political parties about defending the interests of the Czech citizens, this will be respected until the last question. I'm a little surprised that you already know what the Ministry of the Environment will give, because I don't know that at this point either. And most importantly, I would like to state that this position will not be agreed or disagreeable. If it is published in that date, and here I say that even after several negotiations with the Polish party, the deadline was agreed as a deadline on 15 November 2019, I stress, so far final with the fact that it has already been postponed several times. That means that wasn't the first term. We should have given this opinion to the Polish party far earlier, and since the Polish party has delayed a number of documents, we have also said that the deadline for that November 15, 2019 is already compromise. So it's definitely not the first term. But I just want to stress one thing. This will be the case if the position is given, so it will be a summary of absolutely clear concrete requirements for the Polish side in the area of water, noise, air and terrain, especially the water we require to include in the Polish decision and fulfil the intention of the investor. And now I'm going to say something that's absolutely fundamental, and of course we have one that's being consulted legally. If we did not deliver any opinion or give a negative opinion - it does not really work in the interstate EIA so that it would be positive or negative - or it would be issued with a delay, the Polish side would most likely not be bound by any demands to take over. That means I didn't take it personally, I still have two minutes. [[The President accidentally turned off the microphone to the speaker: Sorry.]] [[President: That has never happened to me before.]] But don't try it on me, Mr President. It was a nice try. But I'll speed it up, I'll take that as a warning. We have verified this, and there is indeed the greatest risk that if there were a further delay in this position from our side, the Polish party would simply assess that the Czech Republic does not give any opinion, we have already tried out the previous negotiations under the Bogatynia zoning plan, and the process would have been completely completed and we would not have defended anything there. [[15.10 hours]] We asked the Polish side several times to complete the information and, as I said, it also moved several times. And at this moment I can say after very demanding two-day expert meetings, which also greatly appreciated the Liberec Region and the representatives of the municipalities, that the toughness of the negotiations from the Czech side was at this moment the maximum possible information about the effects of the intention, including the form of sealing wall. For example, in the field of water, the investor has undertaken to expand the current monitoring, to inform the Czech Republic about the development of groundwater levels before and behind the wall and to take effective corrective measures in the event of negative impact. At the moment it is even a possibility to deliver water from Bogatynia, because they say that if the Czech Republic really does not have water, so they are ready to deliver it much faster than any alternative solution would be made, which at the beginning meant over the Jizera Mountains or CHKO Jizera Mountains. But they say in particular that they will take such measures that the water will not fall, but they are ready to compensate everything. As far as the lawsuit is concerned, we are still ready for it. That's what I need to say. This opinion does not deprive the Czech Republic of the possibility to take advantage of the lawsuit and, of course, the possibility of a judicial dispute is also prepared to use municipalities or regions or associations. This means that if our demands were not taken over, fully met, whether now or subsequently, there is, of course, always the possibility of a judicial dispute either in the European Commission or in the Polish court. This means that at this point we are negotiating, there will be another meeting tomorrow with the municipalities, with the region, and we continue to negotiate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and it is still a week until the issue of the opinion, so leave us for the next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u39	Thank you, Minister. Again, I apologize for the mistake of turning off the sound of myself and turning it off for you. The Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u40	I'd like to ask. Isn't it easier to say that mining is so risky that the Czech Republic doesn't agree with it and, if necessary, add why it doesn't agree and that the only conditions that would be are, in fact, equally risky? Because we all know what happens when it comes to mining, what it promises, and what happens after that. Is it not easy to simply say that the Czech Republic does not agree because all the measures proposed are not 100%?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u41	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u42	Mr colleague, by your means, Mr President, you have a long-term environmental concern. Please take a look at the international EIA legislation and the possibilities it gives. There's the biggest problem. I am also saying that the situation is similar, for example, in Austria versus the Czech Republic, nuclear power plants and so on. The thing has some options. By the way, even Germany, because the area is a three-way street, is acting in some way. We may be at great risk of not actually negotiating anything at all when we give a straight dissenting opinion and not even discussing the conditions. And then we may fail somewhere, because other things can always follow. That's what I'm saying. And believe us, we have a whole range of lawyers consulted, we have our behavior, our strategy agreed with the Liberec Region, how to proceed. Because let's just say that we're going to say clearly in fanfaron today, there's no way we're going to agree to this, so we can only achieve that the plan will be implemented in its entirety without our terms, and that is the greatest risk. Again, the possibility of a lawsuit exists here. And I do not rule out that it will be attacked by other subjects today, but we, and we have experienced this several times, when we resign to the negotiations and say that we do not agree with this a priori, even if we do not give any further justification, so the intention can be realized, because it is realized in the territory of Poland, not in the territory of the Czech Republic. It can be realized and the possibilities of the Czech Republic to negotiate some better conditions are then limited to zero. So believe me, we're constantly following all the scenarios in both legal and factual terms, and nothing is out of the question at this point. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And we will defend the interests of our people, believe me, with all our strength.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u43	Time, Minister, thank you. Next in line is Mrs Karla Maříková with an interview with Minister Jan Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the Czech Justice website has informed the police that they have the power to collect sensitive data without having any particular suspicions. Sensitive data on political opinions, beliefs, religion, but also trade union membership, or even sexual orientation, could be collected by the police without sparing suspicion of a specific crime. The police do not yet have that power and is limited by a provision which only allows it to do so if it is strictly necessary for the purpose of investigating a specific offence or offence. Newly, it should suffice the police to believe that it is necessary to prevent the threat of terrorism. The newspaper contains an amendment to the law on police, which the Ministry of the Interior submits to the government. The explanatory memorandum shows that the police are seeking this new power to do so in the long run and collect the amount of sensitive data in this activity. However, there is no explanation of how this amount of information will be handled. So I ask how the police will deal with these data and, for example, how they will be secured against escape or abuse. And how will the deletion be treated if the subject is not suspected of possible radicalisation? And what police force is going to deal with this? Is there going to be a new one? And who will he be subject to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u45	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I will read an apology: Mrs Taťána Malá apologizes today from 15 o'clock to the end of the day for work reasons. Mr. Jakub Janda will bring the question to the attention of Minister Robert Plaga. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u46	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you on the issue of not providing a specific subsidy for SK Benešov, with more such cases. However, the sport club was not further recognised as eligible for funding under the My Club 2018 programme. The reason for this is an error on the part of SK Benešov, namely not submitting the accounts of the grant for 2018 in a proper manner and in a timely manner, that is until 15. 2. 2019. This was certainly a mistake, but in the legal opinion not the reason for rejecting the entire grant for the following year. It was the duty of the Ministry of Education to call on SK Benešov to make amends and to provide documents within the specified time limit. However, this did not happen, although it is assumed by the Ministry of Education and Budget Rules Act No. 218/2000 Sb. I am convinced that without this, the conditions for grants for 2018 cannot automatically be applied, i.e. that the applicant will lose the grant for next year if the subsidy is not charged. I find the MŠMT procedure unhappy, among other things, because these subsidy programmes are primarily intended to support the sport activities of children and young people under the age of 23. Therefore, in this context, I would like to ask you firstly to explain why SK Benešov has not been recognised as eligible for the 2019 grant; secondly, how this situation will be rectified; Thirdly, what steps the Ministry of Education will take in order not to repeat this situation with other applicants for subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u47	Thank you. It shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next is Mr. Miroslav Kalousek on behalf of Mr. absent Minister Jan Hamáček on Greece's request for the reception of children's refugees. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u48	Thank you for the floor. Dear Sir, a moment ago the Minister apologized, in the media I was interested in the fact that in the first half of September, the Greek Minister for the Protection of Persons, like all your other colleagues in the European Union, addressed you with an urgent request for assistance in the relocation of children's unaccompanied refugees who are in children's refugee camps. Specifically, in the case of the Czech Republic, it is a request in the number of 40 children. Two months have passed, and no one knows what your ministry or government has done with this request. I therefore ask for information on how the Greek Minister's request is dealt with or how the government intends to deal with it. I would consider it shameful and shameful, Minister, if a rich and secure country like the Czech Republic refused to accept and take care of 40 children. In view of the urgent situation, I would like to request your information before within a legal period of 30 days, otherwise I will try to include your reply as an item at the next meeting of the House. Thank you for the information and the timely answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u49	Thank you. It shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next is Mrs Věra Kovářová, on behalf of Minister Jana Maláčová, on the optimization of the workplaces of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u50	Dear Minister, in the past months our citizens have heard the very often tilted word optimization, optimization and optimization again. Unfortunately, I was informed that this trend of government should also concern the workplaces of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic. One of the specific cases is the workplace of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic in Zruč nad Sázavou, since the local contact point is located in a rented building. This office is supposed to be cancelled and could only remain if the city provided free of charge for them. First of all, I would like to say that Zruč nad Sázavou is a natural area in which citizens are dealing with other matters. If this contact office were canceled, citizens would have to go to Kutná Hora, which is very time-consuming. Moreover, job seekers and benefit seekers would have to pay travel costs, which is also not twice as motivating for them. Transferring the cost of self-government, although it is already happening in a number of other areas and in a number of places, I do not consider it entirely fair. Madam Minister, please inform us whether your resort plans to apply the current trend of government within the Czech Labour Office network, which aims to distance state administration from citizens, as it has already done or does at random in the case of financial offices, post offices and construction offices, and workplaces in Zruru, or in other places, cancel, or it is only about information noise and in the case of your resort such undesirable steps cannot be expected. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u51	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing again. The next in line is Mr Vojtěch Munzar to Minister Alena Schillerová on the fine and the EET. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u52	Thank you, Mr President. The Dear Minister, when the government introduced electronic records of sales, she also argued that it was an instrument to control the payment of taxes and a tool to level up the business environment. Now I will overlook my personal opinion of these arguments. But EET also brought with it the fact that today entrepreneurs receive fines for absurd things. Medialy known is the case that the entrepreneur received a fine of CZK 5,000 for issuing a comprehensive receipt for spending one table. The total cost was in the order of a few hundred crowns and the guests agreed to split the bill. The receipt for the total cost was issued and remained on the table. Apparently, none of the guests collected hundreds of receipts to play účtenkovka. That means no one wanted their own receipt. My question is: What kind of businessman has caused damage to the state by doing this? How did he circumvent his duty to pay taxes, or how did he distort the business environment? And on the basis of this case, I want to ask in general: Is it really necessary to fine these cases that do not lead to tax evasion? I ask for a pregnant, factual and purposeful explanation, not just an explanation that this is based on the law. Is the procedure In your opinion and opinion, financial management of the Ministry is appropriate and for what reason? Wouldn't just a heads-up on these cases be enough? Is it even the role of secret controllers besides checking purchases to spy on other guests' meetings? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u53	Thank you. It shall also be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next in line is Mr. Jiří Kohoutek with an interview with Minister Jan Hamáček on Antifa, extremism, protection. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, President Donald Trump has decided to include the extremist Antifu network on a list of organizations that the US considers terrorist. Shayne Hunter, the founder of Antifa Australia, says that he abandoned this radically extreme leftist group after four years, realizing that Soros is using us in all countries of the world to start a civil war and that Antifa is built on militant morality and is more dangerous than ISIS. The U.S. state of New Jersey officially included the Antifa movement on the list of terrorist groups in 2017 after many violent attacks by Antifa. Also in Europe, Antifa Fist is a street against opinion opponents, especially against opponents of migration and Islamization. The Czech Antifa is openly opposed to the state on its website, for example, by saying: The police are primarily the service organization of the state designated for repression at the order of the one who is ruling, by its very nature, not to solve common problems, but only to suppress them, and at the same time, it says that we understand violence as one of the means of combating fascism. In practice, these attitudes are manifested by violent actions against all who are called fascists. Dear Minister, I am asking you to know whether the Czech security forces are monitoring this organization and whether there is a Czech list of terrorist organizations, if so, whether Antifa is in it. I ask for information as to whether the police, in cooperation with the state prosecutor, are doing something against the proliferation of the ideology of Antifa, this is breaking down the foundations of a democratic state and spreading the philosophy of violence against alleged enemies. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u55	Thank you. It shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mr Martin Kupka with an interview with Minister Adam Vojtěch regarding the support of small pharmacies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u56	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am in contact with a number of pharmacists at smaller premises who are currently facing a very complicated economic situation, but not only the economic situation, some medicines are becoming increasingly difficult for them. They fear that even more serious risks to the availability of drugs to their clients, their patients, could arise from the forthcoming allergenic system. In addition to facing these problems, they also encounter a competitive struggle against a dramatically complicated situation in the remuneration of their own employees and in what they are able to generate in a simultaneously functioning drug-selling system. I would like to ask what the Ministry of Health is up to in this context to preserve health services in the regions. In smaller mansions, pharmacists acknowledge that there was an increase in payment for signal performance from 14 to 15 crowns. They also welcome the fact that the reference year for next year became 2018. They welcome that, too. But they strive to avoid such a reference year, such a reference volume, because they are not able to naturally influence how many recipes they will obtain, respectively. the extent to which they will correspond to the provision of services. They seek to make that performance, virtually. The payment for signal performance increased even more significantly, preferably from 15 to 18 crowns. They also argue with the promise of wage growth in the health sector, and, of course, the revenue from this remuneration in their case represents only some 10% of the total. However, it is actually the only way in which the State could take account of their services and ensure that the performance changes. So the question is: What is the Ministry of Health doing to make medical services available to pharmacies in regions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u57	I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Member, thank you very much for this interpelation, because it is certainly the subject of pharmaceutical care that is important to us. I happened to visit two congresses of pharmacists in the last few days, including the Czech Pharmacy Chambers, who had their congress on Saturday. So we're still having these debates. At the Ministry we even first established a working group for pharmacies, which was not in the past, the Ministry did not show much interest in it, where all the representatives of pharmacists are both small and large, networked, individual at the table. So we're dealing with the problems. [[15.30 hours]] As far as remuneration is concerned, it is, of course, a number of areas. One is the question of the remuneration of pharmacies, where today the system is set up so that pharmacies are rewarded through so-called. the business premium, through a margin that decreases over time, because, thanks to SÚKL revisions, the prices of prescription drugs are decreasing, and thus, of course, the margins are decreasing. We want to make a change next year within the so-called. the price code, because today the trade mark is actually shared between the pharmacy and the distributor. And we want to divide it. We want the part to be really fixed for the pharmacies of the trade mark so that the entire business premium is simply not shared with distributors, but that the part is separated precisely for the pharmacies. This should lead to some higher certainty that the pharmacy will simply reach some amount of funding under the mark-up. We can do that without changing the law through the so-called. the price regulation that the Ministry creates or is in its gesture. And we'd like to do it in the first half of next year. Let's see how this plays out in practice. So that's the first support for pharmacies. The second question concerns, as you have mentioned, the payment decree and the increase in signal performance. In fact, this agreement is based on the conciliation procedure that they represented, respectively, during the conciliation procedure. pharmacies represented the Grémium of pharmacies owners and signed such an agreement with health insurance companies. That means we respect the deal, the increase. Moreover, we have taken one more step that we have promised and have not been the subject of conciliation, and this is that we have created a new performance for digitising paper recipes. Because as the House approved recently and the law will become valid from 1. 12., amendment to the Drug Act, so given the patient's medical record, we want all recipes, not only recipes issued as an electronic recipe, but also paper recipes, which will still be a certain amount. And we want the pharmacists to digitize these recipes, and for that we promised them that we would do a new performance, which we did. For digitizing paper recipes. This operation will be paid up to CZK 10 - sorry, originally it was CZK 10, now it is CZK 12 after a certain increase, so CZK 12 for digitizing the paper recipe, which is another CZK 100 million, which should go to pharmacies next year. So it's not just about the signal power, it's about this new power for digitizing paper recipes. That's the payment question. On the other hand, the payments, as you rightly said, are more of a minority part. Primarily, pharmacies are rewarded through the margin system we want to change. And what we're also dealing with is that we'd like to introduce a certain distribution tax for the future, so that there's some clear reward for this pharmacist's work. What is important, I would like to mention this in the minute that remains, is the question of small pharmacies in remote areas. The conciliation procedure for this year, and we want to continue this next year, has been agreed on the creation of so-called. fund for village pharmacies, where about CZK 408 million is allocated. And there are clear rules that defined health insurance companies in cooperation with drug care providers, where these individual pharmacies, where there are no other pharmacies available at any time, and yet there is a need for a practical doctor, so that we simply keep the pharmacy and patients can get their medicine, so they get the bondification from this fund to these individual pharmacies, village pharmacies that we want to keep. So it's some sort of extension regarding the targeted support of individual pharmacies. This year is already under way, next year we will continue to do so. Insurance companies have now published criteria for granting a bonus, which, I think, are very accessible. That means, even this is some extra support for small village pharmacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u59	The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u60	So I would just like to repeat the question concerning the increase in payment for signal output from 15 to 18 crowns. How do you see it really? When could this happen, if this happens, and what is your idea of that dispensation tax, how much could it be as if it were for the pharmaceutical procedure, the health system payment. And then I wanted to ask for your idea of how in the future, especially in places that are not so remote, they are needed near Prague, but the problem arises again from the point of view that the interest is relatively smaller, because those who commute to work are able to secure their medications in the city, in the center, but for those who live in the place, it is complicated, and then they are not able to support the pharmacy simply and often they are places in the suburbs of large cities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u61	Thank you. The Minister is interested in an answer. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u62	Thank you for the follow-up questions. When it comes to signal performance, I say again, it is not a gros pay pharmacies, it is rather a certain supplement, which of course we plan to continue valorizing. Of the 14 to 15 crowns, that's the deal that was made by the pharmacists. And we're definitely planning on further Valorizing the performance. It's 15 crowns next year. If there's any idea of CZK 18, I think there'll be some sort of valorisation again for 2021. So the performance is regularly reviewed every year, and I'm pretty sure it's going to valorize for 2021. But the 15 crowns are simply based on the agreement we respect, plus the 12 crowns for digitizing paper recipes. Otherwise, in support of individual pharmacies - yes, I agree that it is not only a question of some pharmacies somewhere in Sumava, but also some pharmacies that may be in the villages in the Central Bohemia Region and so on. They expect the conditions for bonification, which were published relatively recently, perhaps a few days ago, to be bonified by such pharmacies, where the driving time to another nearest pharmacy is greater than ten minutes. Which I think is quite benevolent, which means that they should do so in this regard, even the pharmacies that are somewhere in the villages of the Central Bohemia Region. It is certainly not a question of the center of Prague, where we have five pharmacies in one place, but a driving time of more than ten minutes, where I think that should be achieved even by the pharmacies in Central Bohemia. That means it's not just a question of some completely remote pharmacies, but it's really the pharmacies in other areas. And it's some sort of targeted bonification. I think the pharmacists appreciate this and it's something that should compensate for the fact that the pharmacy may not have so many patients. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u63	The next in line is Mr Petr Pávek with an interview to Minister Richard Brabec on the extension of the mining of the Polish brown coal mine Turów. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I know that you are familiar with this issue, a little while ago, a colleague of Čižinský here intersected on the same matter. In principle, a number of questions which you have received from me in writing and which Mr Čižinský also made have been partially answered. Not satisfactorily. I will therefore improvise in my questions and requests for answers. Because I am - and I am happy that there is a growing number of Members in the House, who are concerned with the issue of the extension of the Polish Turów mine, that they are interested in the topic, that they are interested in whether the inhabitants of the Czech Republic are protected and whether the territory, which is much larger than Prague, is actually going to lose water. And I may be the only authentic member of that territory, living about 500 metres from that Polish border, so I see myself experiencing water running low, either as a result of natural or unnatural climate change, or as a result of the giant's mining activity, which is spreading all over Polish territory. And, of course, first of all, I would like to answer some of your questions, which you have asked your colleague Čižinský. First of all, from where we know that the Ministry is going to issue a positive opinion on planned mining into Poland. So even your office isn't as tight as any other office in this country and sometimes some things just come out. So if the information is true, of course, we're anxious to respond to it. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u65	I believe the Minister has understood the question and...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u66	The Minister has the questions written, so he knows what's going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u67	Great, so we made our job easier. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u68	Thank you. So, Turów for the second time, and I will not let you down, my colleague, through you, Mr President, so I'm sure you'll have a chance to ask. I'll just specify the answer I gave to Mr Čižinský, and she's the key. It's that so-called. the interstate EIA is implemented according to the so-called The Espoo Convention and the Convention, for many surprises, do not have the character of the European EIA Directive, but it does not have an appeal. You can't sue her. If you simply give a negative or positive opinion under the EIA directive of the European and Czech law, it is possible to demand an appeal, but not here. The Espoo Convention actually expects - that is why there is neither a positive nor a negative position - that both parties agree in some way on the terms of the cross-border intention. And he doesn't actually expect the deal not to happen. That means I have answered your questions because I have answered something, so I say that on the contrary we are very hard defending and defending the interests of Czech citizens precisely because we are negotiating, because if we do not negotiate, it will paradoxically turn against us and nothing will be negotiated at all. I can assure you of that. Tomorrow there will be another important meeting with the region, whether the mayor or the county, and we will talk again about the conditions and whether they are sufficient and what we can still do in the week when it is expected, so far assume that some position will fall, what else can we do. What is also important is that we already know that there is no way that the potential water problem, and this is clearly demonstrated by the Czech Geological Service, and the region is already saying this, is not about 30,000 people, but a much smaller number. It would be mainly about the coal area. So really from the point of view of the coal and surroundings it is a matter of no doubt, and I have already picked up what we are discussing here tomorrow that the Polish side has already turned to the Czech side and said that it is able to offer if something like this really happened, and it is excluded at this point and it says, we will do such security, extended the sealing wall, gave guarantees, but again I say it is on paper. But we're also saying, at the moment that it would actually happen, we're going to have a monitoring, a continuous monitoring of whether the air, so the water, if it really starts to happen, the Polish side is ready to deliver the water source directly from the surrounding area allegedly Bogatynia and they're saying that they have sufficient water resources and that they would supply the surrounding area. So at the same time I also answer your question that the Ministry of Agriculture provided a grant title based on my pressure of CZK 60 million for an alternative project of management from CHKO or via CHKO Jizera Mountains. Of course, it is not prepared at this point in time that it would be ready immediately in the position of building permit, that is true, but it is up to both water companies at this time to act, because the subsidy title is simply open. There I confess that I don't have the exact or current state of the project and its preparation, but I can assure you that we are doing everything we can to make sure that there isn't a possibility of such a loss at all. And it's definitely clear now that it wouldn't be this wide. But, of course, Uhelná and her surroundings are very important to us. And today, an open letter came out, the content of which is really meaningless, there from the coal field, because we are defending their interests - and tomorrow the mayors will come - very hard. I must say that the last expert meeting, which, as I also said to my colleague Čižinský, was very well evaluated by the participants in the region, was so harsh that the Polish party itself said that something like this had never experienced, that such pressure had been created on them, and we obtained the maximum possible information about the sealing wall, about hydrogeological conditions and all that we had been waiting for so long. So that's why we got information to prove the functionality of the underground barrier. As I said, the current monitoring network will expand, the Polish side will ensure monitoring of groundwater levels in the monitoring wells and along the planned sealing wall. Maybe that's it, and I'm sure it's for some more specific question of yours... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u69	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u70	Thank you, Minister, for all the assurances. I assure you, I am familiar with the negotiations, the results of the negotiations and the technical aspects of the matter. I'm still not happy. Today I will also interpel the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Foreign Affairs on this matter, because it certainly affects three areas at least. What puzzles me about it, and what makes this thing actually unbelievable is that you didn't take it to the government, that the whole topic has never been the subject of government negotiations, and that is the matter of the Czech Republic, that it remains as if it were still in your department, in fact on other departments, and therefore it is not a matter of the Czech Republic, only of some basically negotiating team. So I wonder why you haven't put this on the government yet, so that the government can deal with it as a whole and that it can be properly discussed at international level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u71	Time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u72	I am happy to answer, my colleague, by your means, Mr President. You don't have the exact information. The government even had the material several times about Turów. At least he was in Sobotkův's government, then he showed up again. I think it has even been three times and the government has made a number of resolutions on it. One of those resolutions was the provision of funds for alternative waters, the 60 million crowns. The next resolution concerned negotiations with the Polish side. There went very extensive material. So the government has been repeatedly informed, and I am, of course, prepared, and we are also discussing this with Minister Petříček, I am, of course, ready to give the current status now, because today, just before November 16th, next week, we still have the government on November 12th, and there we will be sure to inform about the current situation and what we have prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u73	Thank you. Next, Mr. Jiří Valenta, with an interview with Minister Tomáš Petříček on the issue of war reparations, is still on the table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u74	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, a year ago, I interviewed the Prime Minister in connection with the possibility of enforcing war reparations on Germany. He then figuratively threw away the CZK 15,000 billion owed, and I would like to introduce you both today to how other countries and their governments began to build on similar demands. By virtue of your duties, you should know that a wave of requests for payment of war reparations by Germany is now starting to spread to Europe, and also to start doing something in this sense for our citizens. The compensation is already sought not only by Poland and Greece, but also by similar voices from Hungary, Italy or Serbia. Polish Foreign Minister Čaputovič criticized Germany with the fact that Poland regrets the obvious disadvantages in the payment of German reparations, which should reach the limit of $800 billion, and that there is no postwar justice for some of the countries under appeal. In fact, France or the Netherlands have been treated differently in the context of compensation. The Polák have even set up a subcommittee on reparation. Germany's decimated Greece - over 80 percent of the Žid were murdered, over 800 villages were burned, 80 percent of the industry was destroyed - demands EUR 309 billion, based on the April vote in its parliament. The Greek Government then invited the German Party to open negotiations on the issue of the payment of war reparations. What about our government? Quiet by the path! I ask: Do we still have the lying government arguments about the validity of the subordinate Czech-German declaration on mutual relations or the non-hacking of the post-war arrangement of Europe, which nobody wants to crash? Are you still interested in the indisputable claims of the Czech nation arising from genocide during the period of World War II, even though luckily implemented in our country only partially? What will you do as Secretary of State to support the winning powers of guaranteed reparations? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u75	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u76	Mr President, honourable Member, allow me to respond briefly to your intervention on war reparations in the Czech Republic. At the moment, the Czech party does not consider the question of the request for recovery to be timely. At the same time, I will stress that the Czech-German Declaration adopted by the Czech Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany in 1997 clearly stated that the injustices committed in the past on both sides belong to the past and that they will not burden their future-oriented relations with political or legal issues related to the past. And in this spirit, both sides are moving forward consistently. I would also briefly comment on your topic of reparation raised by the Republic of Poland. I personally believe that Poland does not have a real chance of reparation from Germany. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be The Potsdam Agreement undertakes to satisfy Poland's reparation demands from its own reparation share. In this respect, the Potsdam Agreement therefore did not admit any separate reparation claims to Poland, respectively. By default, she ruled them out. Poland is also not a Contracting Party to the Paris Agreement, unlike then Czechoslovakia. The question is also, in which court this matter would be dealt with. Of course, in the case of Czechoslovak reparations, this is a matter of political decision by the government. We would not consider any decision to enforce a war reparation to be happy because it could really disrupt the climate of mutual trust in Europe with our neighbours. As in the case of Poland, however, it would have been true that we would not have recovered these reparations from Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u77	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u78	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You only answered me halfway through. You outlined something here about the Czech-German Declaration of Mutual Relations of 1997, but you read only a little bit. You have read that both parties therefore claim not to burden their relations with political and legal issues from the past. Yes, that is, of course, true, that is what the declaration says, but when the Chamber of Deputies accepted this treaty to make recommendations to the Government, the accompanying report stated that the declaration is not an international treaty, but a political document, a statement which is not a legal instrument. The Czech Party does not renounce its legal doctrine in the declaration, nor does it question the applicable legislation or its existing obligations or rights under international law or the legitimacy of international legal acts adopted in the interests of the international community. And that's exactly what the decision of the victorious powers after 1945 is fulfilling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u79	Thank you. The Minister is interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u80	Dear Member, I do not question how you described the Czech-German Declaration, it is not a binding document, it is indeed a political document, but it is also necessary to take into account the possibility of enforcement in the event of any legal claim. And as I have also closed, like Poland, I am convinced, and the experts are also of the opinion that we would not be able to recover from Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u81	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Jana Krutáková with an interview with Minister Richard Brabec on the matter of a billion and a half at the Ú. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u82	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I would like to ask you about your comments in the articles on land adjustments and related agricultural and landscape projects. In an interview with Hospodářské noviny, you were told that the Ministry of the Environment is planning to finance the adaptation projects of the State Land Office. The Ministry of the Environment is supposed to be able to draw funds from its own programmes, and a number of these prepared projects amount to CZK 1.5 billion. Of course, the Ministry of Agriculture provides co-financing of the land treatment project, but I also refer to you because of your figures. I did not find this novelty in funding in the chapters of the Ministry of Environment's budget, only in that article. Where, then, can I look up the financing of these planned nature-related projects, which are certainly land adjustments, in the draft budget for 2020? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u83	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the question and I will be happy to answer it, because I consider it an excellent result of cooperation between the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture, which has actually used up money this year for land modifications. And just as you said, my colleague, by your means, Mr President, adaptation projects are very important, which are currently being done by the State Land Office and doing them well. Of course, he makes a whole bunch of them. When we found out that there was no extra money available, because the SLO did not use historically much of our resources, which is a shame, we entered negotiations with the State Environmental Fund just with the management of the State Land Office and we selected from the Operational Programme Environment, i.e. from European funds, the amount that could be - I say - up to CZK 1.5 billion, but we have already taken the first steps and extended the range of applicants who can apply, actually also to the State Land Office. This has been approved by the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme Environment and, at this point, the enlargement of applicants is approved by the European Commission. And now the first applications are ready to be submitted to the announced challenges of the Operational Programme Environment, which are the first tens of millions of crowns. There could be over a hundred of these projects if we actually had an amount of 1.5 billion at our disposal. And the allocation to finance these projects is so included - I answer specifically your question - in the chapter of the Ministry of Environment for prefinancing the Operational Programme Environment. But what will be the amount next year depends primarily on the SAO as applicant and realizer of projects. At this point, we have it in the prefinancing chapter of the operational programme, and we can get up to the 1.5 billion crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u85	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u86	I just have a quick follow-up question. Am I to understand that the funds will be allocated from the European Union in the Operational Programme Environment and the programme axis will be the conservation of nature and landscape, so will a new subsidy title be written?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u87	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u88	It will also be possible to draw on existing grant titles, because we have there, if I'm not mistaken, in priority axis 4, but also in priority axis 1 of open grant titles, into which the STU is currently reporting to those challenges. That means, at this point in time, those first applications are preparing for the announced challenges, so we don't expect to write any new grant titles. These are the existing and future challenges from the RU, which we will only adjust to this so that the SAO can request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u89	Thank you. Next is Mr. Vojtěch Munzar for Minister Karel Havlíček - old environmental burden Kladno. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, as I intervened with you last time, you are proposing to the government to withdraw the quarter of a billion crowns that it allocated two years ago to the measures to protect soil waters in Kladno and to protect them from contamination, especially from the ecologically polluted site of former Poldi ironworks. I asked the reasons for the last time, however, when discussing the chapter workbook of the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the Economic Committee, I asked where the source of these allocated money was and whether they were involved in the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The Ministry's State Secretary replied that the funds were not included in the Ministry's budget and that the privatisation fund was the source. Since the government has dissolved CZK 18 billion from the National Property Fund this year in the state budget, I want to ask if your proposal is based on the fact that the money is no longer available and is spent. And if they are available, please explain where they are assigned and maintained in the state budget or in the interest of unused expenditure or in the non-budgetary funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u91	Thank you. The interview will be answered in accordance with one order. Next is Mr. Petr Pávek with an interview with Minister Miroslav Toman on the extension of the extraction of Polish brown coal mine Turów. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am sorry to say that the Minister is not here, and I am of the opinion that he is not here very often. So I will formally contact him about the extension, extension and deepening of the mining of the brown coal mine Turów on the Polish side of the common border and its negative effects on the territory and life of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. I will simply make it short, because the Ministry of Agriculture is essentially concerned with compensation for the costs of the current study and the project documentation of the water supply, which should once supply Frýdlant and border areas through the protected landscape area of the Jizera Mountains, if the water falls further and stops being available, and then I want to ask four simple questions. Minister, is it true that the estimated costs of the construction of the water pipeline through the Jizera Mountains in the estimated initial amount of CZK 2 billion will be divided from the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture? What stage are the preparations for this subsidy program? Is this investment already approved? And from what will the additional costs of operation and service of taps be covered, and at what level are they estimated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u93	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Martin Kupka withdraws his intervention while apologizing from 4:00 p.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr. Jiří Kohoutek will perform with an interview with Minister Vladimír Kremlík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I was approached by employees of SŽDC, who are surprised that although they have a formal right to direct fares, they will actually lose it largely due to the bad agreements of the Ministry of Transport with the regions. They're not gonna pay for regional trains, just national ones. Not just that. Due to the inability to agree with the Ministry, at the same time as between regions, the timetable will be completely changed illogically. For example, the passenger train from Brno will officially end in Letovice on the border of the South Moravian Region instead of in the current station Březová nad Svitavou. After the passenger performance, however, it will continue to Březová, where there is a dorm and a dormitory for train staff. Railway staff and SŽDC, among other things from Březová nad Svitavou, will then have to wait for the express line or look for another transport to get to where the train will be empty anyway. For years, the Ministry of Transport promises to simplify transport and unification of transport systems, including a uniform ticket. Instead, traffic is becoming increasingly complicated. Minister, on behalf of passengers and citizens, we ask you to correct and inform you whether and how something will change for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u95	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mr Vít Kaňkovský with an interview with Minister Jana Maláčová on the case of the Labour Code on Ice. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u96	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, I have not been able to find out whether Minister Maláčová is excused or not at the moment, because according to official apologies she is not excused, so I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-President, how do we apologize to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u97	I don't know. According to official apologies, if he's not in official apologies, he's probably not listed here. I don't know about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u98	Okay, thank you. Dear absent and apparently unforgivable, Minister Maláčová, I wanted to interview you today about the big amendment to the Labour Code, which you have already announced for a long time, but it has been parked in the walls of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and at this moment it is not clear its future fate. I'd hate to interpel into these beautiful walls here, so I'm going to keep this interpelation on one of the next possibilities. However, I would very much like it if you have some work, really important work obligations that entitle you not to be here, so that you are duly excused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u99	Thank you. Mr Petr Pávek will be the last to speak to Minister Tomáš Petříček on the extension of mining. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u100	Thank you. Dear Minister, as two of your colleagues from the Government, the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Agriculture have already been consulted, I also have three questions on the extension of the mining of the Turów mine on the Polish side at the Czech border. What legal action has the Czech Republic taken towards Poland in view of the many violations of EU and Polish national legislation in the processes that are a prerequisite for the issue of the Mining Decision on the extension of mining in the Turów mine? What legal action is the Czech Republic planning against Poland with regard to the infringement of legislation, and why has the Czech Republic not already made them within the time immediately following the breach? And three. Poland has issued a decision to change the zoning plan before completion of interstate consultations with the Czech Republic, which is a flagrant violation of EU and Polish national legislation. The Czech Republic responded to this on the condition that the proceedings will not continue until the infringement has been eliminated. However, the Czech Republic is now supposed to issue a final position despite the fact that the illegal territorial plan is still in force and there has been no correction from the Polish side. So why does the Czech Republic no longer require redress and cooperates fully in other proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u101	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u102	Mr President, Mr Member, I have been personally monitoring the situation around the brown coal mine of Turów and, of course, I am aware of the impact of the entire project and mining activity on the environment in the Czech Republic. I consider the issue to be a very important part of bilateral relations with Poland, and we have also repeatedly opened all the risks associated with them with the Polish party, as well as at intergovernmental consultations held in Poland in August this year, when we discussed this with my counterpart, Jack Czaputowicz. First of all, I have to say here that the issues relating to the previous steps and further action by the Czech authorities fall fully within the remit of the Ministry of Environment under the law, but we are prepared to provide the necessary synergies in the implementation of the selected actions of the Ministry of Environment, including legal advice in the field of EU and international law. Let me conclude by pointing out that, in this respect and at this point, our legal experts are assessing further progress with the Ministry of the Environment, taking into account the decision of the Polish parties to postpone the decision on the international EIA to the first half of next year, including how to request additional information on compensatory measures regarding possible technical modifications to the project, which would reduce the impact on the environment in the Czech Republic. I am aware that the expansion of mining in the Turów mine affects up to 30,000 Czech inhabitants, especially the state of groundwater, but it is also a matter of dustiness and noise and we have repeatedly asked the Polish side to inform us better about the technical modifications in the project and what measures the Polish party, including the isolation dam, will take. [[unintelligible]] [[16.10 hours]] I am personally convinced that we still have time and that the government should, on the basis of recommendations from the Ministry of the Environment and following consultations with the relevant ministries, clearly express its reservations about the project. My colleague Brabc and I last discussed this at the government meeting this Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u103	Thank you. The MP is interested, and before I give him my word, I'll read the apology. Mr. Jiří Strýček, today from 15.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr. Ondřej Profant, today from 16 pm for working reasons. And as for the apology of Secretary Maláčová, I've got her on the table here now saying she's arrived in the morning, but it's not loaded. It is: I ask for an apology for my absence to attend the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 7 November 2019 from 11 a.m. to the end of the day, for working reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Just a follow-up question. Your environmental colleague, Minister Brabec, promised on Monday, now 12. 11. He'll take the government to deal with this. So I would like to hear from you the assurance that you will support him in this and that you will take a position on the government that will protect the Czech territory and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u105	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u106	Dear Member, I will certainly support the Minister. I even suggested to him that the government should deal with it. At the same time, I asked the legal experts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to evaluate all the possibilities that the Czech party has. From my point of view, it is particularly important that we have such a position that we can use all the remedies, especially if, despite compensatory measures, this project has such a major impact on Czech citizens, so that, for example, we can defend ourselves with European institutions. In this respect, it is precisely all the advice I have mentioned, and the cooperation of our party for the Ministry of the Environment will be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-07-ps2017-035-10-016-318.u107	Well, thank you. I am of the opinion that for today's meeting, we have closed the oral questioning. I'm terminating today's meeting day. We'll continue tomorrow. I will inform you: we will start at 9 a.m. of the 38th meeting, the 36th meeting will follow at 9 a.m. and the 37th meeting will continue and then the 35th meeting will continue. Have a nice afternoon and have a nice day.
