ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u1	35. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties /German press 256/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Jakub Michálek, take the position at the rapporteur's table. It follows that the Guarantee Committee was the Constitutional Legal Committee. The amendments are set out in the Parliaments of the Press 256/5. We have it at our disposal from 7 June 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee is available as the House Press 256/6. I am now asking the appellant if he wants to speak before the debate is opened. That's right, so the Deputy Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, before they begin, allow me to thank the Chamber of Deputies for the previous vote. It is a very good report for the Czech Post that the Czech Post will finally pay the costs that the post office has imposed on postal licenses and have not yet been fully paid, and this will also enable the long-awaited change plan to start at the Czech Post as we all wish. So thank you again. And now for the current point. I would like to recall the Government's bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. The aim is to amend certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. It was approved in 2016 and is aimed at electronization and the overall major modernisation of the lawmaking process. The proposal brings in particular the necessary changes to the Rules of Procedure of the House and the Senate and the Act on the Constitutional Court, and also makes technical changes to the laws in connection with the unification of the Collection of Laws and Collections of Contracts into one collection. The law sets out a new date of application. On the basis of an agreement with the Constitutional Committee, the system should be put into sharp operation on 1 January 2022. As regards the amendments tabled, I agree with most of them. This is also the case with the amendments from the constitutional committee, to which I would like to thank for the helpful approach. I would also like to ask you to support my proposal for registration, which withdraws from the draft amendment of laws which require the consent of the Senate to be adopted, because a unanimous agreement with the Senate has not yet been reached on amendments to its Rules of Procedure. What I cannot agree with is the proposals of Mr Benda and Mr Kupka, which are intended to introduce the so-called. days of legal effectiveness, however, the House will, of course, decide by vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u3	Thank you and I am opening the debate. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal is in the debate, but if the rapporteur would like to speak first, we should give him priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly inform you about what has happened since the last hearing in the second reading. The Guarantee Committee has adopted opinions on the individual amendments referred to in the Parliaments of the Press 256/6. I'm gonna point out a few things. On the one hand, it is the amendment that Mr Benda and Kupka have in place regarding the date of entry into force with which the Constitutional Committee has given its consent, so I will then recommend it. And I think that's the only place we have with the Ministry. What I consider very important, however, is to appeal to the Ministry of the Interior to pay maximum attention to the problem-free... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I may wait until the gentlemen deal with this, because this would be a real shame if it had set in when the next parliamentary term will be 200 Members who will be hysterical about the failure of the system. So I will really ask that attention be given to this information, because it is important for a large part of us who want to continue the next parliamentary term when the system is due to take effect. Currently, on the basis of the implementation analysis, there is insufficient synergies in relation to the Office of the Chamber of Deputies and the Office of the Senate, where a number of rounds of correspondence are under way to ensure that these institutions have sufficient documentation to produce the public contracts necessary to enable these systems to be put into operation. Mr. Deputy Mlsna is in charge of this, and I would like to appeal to the Minister to ensure maximum synergies between the Ministry of the Interior and the contractor who is processing the implementation analysis so that both the Office of the Chamber of Deputies and the Office of the Senate have the necessary information for the system to run 1. 7. 2020 into trial operation, as agreed on by the Constitutional Legal Committee and as said here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. So I just really wanted to use the opening word for the appeal to make it clear here on the microphone so that we didn't get into the situation that we were on the constitutionally legal committee or on the subcommittee for the digitization of justice and e Collection, where we were supposed to keep an eye on these issues. I want this place to be clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open the debate. For the debate, as I've already announced... Sorry, sorry, I opened the debate. The rapporteur spoke first, after which Vice-President Pikal will act with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u6	Thank you. So I didn't ask for priority rights, but I think I'm properly logged in, so it's nothing against anything. I would only like to stop at some of the amendments I have tabled to this press quickly. Firstly, I would like to begin by thanking both the House of Legislation and the Ministry of the Interior, which also partly cooperated with me on these proposals, for the cooperation. One of the proposals, which concentrates on the amendments to legislative changes and some details of the procedures in the Rules of Procedure, took the constitutionally legal committee to its own, so they are incorporated there and I thank you for that. As for the other two of my proposals, B1 and B2, I also thank you for your cooperation there, but I have not been able to convince the Constitutional Committee or, in general, my colleagues that they are needed. After all, I was assured in one case that such a detailed adjustment was not necessary, because it would ensure the system itself, and in the other case there are some problems that cannot be corrected by legislative technical regulation, however, because work on the overall amendment to the Rules of Procedure was started from the point of view of the House, so my proposals to move there. Therefore, I would withdraw proposal B1 and B2 at this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u7	I thank the Vice-President and Mr Benda is also in the debate, Mr Feri will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u8	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be too long, but I would like to partly turn your attention to one amendment. The first thing I'm going to say, I think it's really a shame that we haven't been able to use that time to agree with the Senate because we're coming into such a slightly absurd situation that although we're introducing an eCollection that will run the entire government, here's some agreement that this eCollection should exist in the test operation from the middle of next year, from the beginning of 2022 it will be mandatory for everyone, it will still be mandatory for the House, and then it will come to the Senate and there we will work with paper, purely theoretically, simply because there has not been a consensus between the upper chamber, the lower chamber and especially the government. And here I have the feeling that unfortunately, it has not been sufficiently worked out by the most responsible constitutional officials, and this is not at the moment the chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee, but it must be the chairmen of both chambers or vice-premier. [[12.20 hours]] I am not happy that those parts of the proposal that are currently intervening in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and other laws are being launched, as Mr Hamáček suggested. But that's just a remark on the edge. I think it may also be one of the reasons the Senate gave it back to us. What I would like to draw your attention to, however, is because the Minister mentioned this in his opening speech and that I consider it a big mistake and damage, the fact that the Ministry has so far rejected our proposal, my colleagues and Kupka, to set only two dates in the year in which the legislation is intended to take effect, namely 1. 7. and 1. 1. It is a common model that is in many countries of the world. Of course, we are anchored there, if there is something in a crisis situation, in a situation of extreme emergency, it is possible for it to enter another time. But other than that, I think that this thesis would be perfectly correct, that I have two dates a year. At the beginning of the holiday and at the beginning of the year, when I see what laws have changed to me, what the House, the government, the Senate, invented the legislative process. I'm gonna look and I'm gonna say it's okay, I'm gonna be a regular citizen for the next six months, and I'm gonna go back and watch it for six months. I really don't understand why the Home Office isn't willing to do this. What does it feel like it could do any harm? In general, we have already learned that the effectiveness is relatively delayed. That there is a time process created and that there are relatively few cases where we have efficiency on the second day or on the 15th day after the day of publication. The legislative process today lasts at least eight months, if we took the preparations for the government, two years. There really is a delay that we set two fixed terms is absolutely minimal and we don't need - or, when we need to, of course, we can make the exceptions from the law. But we don't need to take effect three times a month. I would ask you very much to think about it, despite the negative position of the Ministry of the Interior. But I think it's really more the official position of the Ministry of the Interior than the thoughtful position of the political government. The Constitutional Committee recommended the proposal. And I think it would be perfectly right and completely fair to citizens, if we said yes, check if there is any new obligation, new demand, new legal provisions, twice a year. At the beginning of the holiday and at the beginning of the year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u9	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri will be next in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u10	Thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, esteemed colleagues and honourable members of the government present, two. If any amendment makes sense, it is the one introduced by colleague Benda here, and I would like to put in another word for him. But with the Minister of the Interior present, I would like to ask him one question which is very closely related to the subject. The ODS colleagues have proposed two drafts that I take as such a kickoff and a desperate call towards simplifying laws and more clarity of the rule of law. These are two drafts of laws abolishing numerous laws from 1919. In short, the Ministry is urging itself to do something about it, come simplify those laws, come through the legal order and come find some laws that are simply outdone, living laws that are outdone and that could somehow be slid into one for example and make the adjustments clear. The Ministry of the Interior responded to this initiative, but I don't think it understood the purpose. In May, I believe, a PR report came out that the Home Office was preparing its own proposal and that it went through the law and chose laws that were already surviving. This means you look at ASPI, you find the laws of 1918 and 1919, and you say, here the laws are already dead, and that makes it easier for citizens to navigate in the rule of law. The idea that because of the repeal of laws as Law No. 188/1919, which empowers the Government to establish for the time being the number of residences and districts of court boards and main representatives of the court in Slovakia, or by repealing Act No. 487/1921 on expensive additions for 1922 to disability and old-age pensions paid in Hlučín, or repealing Czechoslovak Government Decree No. 576/1919 on flax seed - that repealing this legislation will bring some greater orientation in the legal order and greater clarity of legislation, so it is completely illusionary, and I think the Ministry of the Interior does not take it seriously. But what I would very much like is that at least the members of the Constitutional Legal Committee should be reported on how the analysis goes on, because some commitment has been made that some conceptual plan will be submitted by 2021. I really don't think it's supposed to be the ambition of the Ministry of the Interior here, especially when this proposal also assumes an adjustment to what will be published, so here it is pointless, it is really just a PR gesture, but that valid, effective proposals, applicable laws and those that are simply commonly used should be passed. [[Nesroz.]] And to intervene in the way in which they are further formed, if there is any appropriate recodification, significant modification. Above all, coordinate these actions with the Government's Legislative Council, because it is also a matter that concerns future laws and some legislative techniques that are being used. Thank you for your attention. I'd be happy to answer that. If the Minister can't give the answer now, I'd be happy to do some writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u11	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u12	Thank you. Two short notes, because we're close to the time when the fixed point is scheduled, so obviously we won't be able to make that point and we'll get back to it sometime next time. A colleague of Benda. I understand, of course, why they wish to introduce the two dates when laws are to come into effect. The argument or counterargument, I suppose, was also presented on the Constitutional Legal Committee, has to do with the implementation of EU rules or law, where there are concerns that this would complicate this matter. But we can talk about it, and in the finals, we'll decide by vote. Mr Ferim. We have progressed at the Ministry and progressed in two steps. The first step is really to find the obsolent laws that only indulge the system. That's ready now, and that thing's in the interreort. And then there's the second phase. But it's more complicated than that, because it's going to require more conceptual procedure. So if the Constitutional Committee places - and that is not my authority, that is the authority of the President - if it places a point in its meeting on the Information of the Ministry of the Interior on the procedure for simplifying the rule of law, then, of course, as the Ministry, we are ready to arrive and submit the relevant information to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u13	Thank you. Mr Kupka is also enrolled in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u14	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I also allow myself to react very quickly. I think we just heard another argument here a little while ago, why it would be really good to introduce really only two days when laws can come into effect. At the moment when the Chamber of Deputies here adopts a whole range of our own Czech laws and then at the same time we adopt the standards that we implement from European directives and regulations, this also means that we should contribute to greater simplicity for entrepreneurs, for institutions, for people who live in the Czech Republic. Marek Benda here was talking about the fact that it's common everywhere in the world. It is also common in European countries where European laws, European directives and regulations are equally implemented. Even there, they were able to deal with it, and it contributes significantly to the fact that it is for them the state, for all who live in it, is simply more welcoming, because at that moment the rule of law is more transparent. It is possible to rely on the fact that, apart from the exceptional cases that we remember in this amendment, there is only 1 January and 1 July when laws can enter into force. This is indeed an important step towards simplification. It is an important step to enable people to use the state for their lives in a simpler way so that we do not unnecessarily complicate their situation when they have to watch, not only what is accepted, what comes into force, but also when it comes into force. And if you take the life of an entrepreneur, for example, if you take the life of a school principal, a hospital director, it means living in some kind of tension when the new standard came into force when it didn't come into effect. [[12.30 hours]] We can document a number of concrete reports from the United Kingdom and other countries of the world, where they have been doing so for years. They don't even have it in the law, but it goes down there and everybody respects it, because it's just good for living in that country. And at the moment when we all know that, these laws are adopted very much, this would be a significant helping hand for people who live in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-004-035.u15	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Benda is registered, but I can no longer give him the floor, because it is 12:30, so I am interrupting this point on the basis of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, and we are going to proceed to points that are firmly placed at 12:30, which are voting points. The first is point number
