ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u1	149. Government information on the toll system selection procedure We have interrupted the discussion of this point in the general debate on Thursday, 14 March 2019. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, or by another authorised member of the Government, and by the plaintiff and rapporteur Jan Bartošek. We will now continue the general debate. Mr Bartošek, please. And I'll ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, before we begin discussing this point, I understand that the Minister is not present, but for the sake of order, I would like to ask you if you would submit that the government has submitted another minister so that it can present this point in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u3	I don't have any credentials here for any other minister. And it's not a law that the government is making, which means it's not necessary. It's government information, it's not the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u4	You just said that some other minister who was appointed by the government, so I'm asking why the minister was possibly assigned. I just asked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u5	Okay. With priority rights, Mr. Faltýnek is President. [[Objection from the diaper.]] The promoter is Mr. Bartošek. It's government information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u6	Because, Mr President, I have not yet learned which Minister represents the Minister of Transport at this point, which is why I am asking. You said that someone should be appointed by the government, I respect that, but I ask which minister will be present for this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u7	Okay. I'm gonna interrupt the meeting for five minutes and we're gonna discuss how we're gonna proceed. I'm declaring a break until 5:48 p.m. [[The hearing is suspended from 17.43 to 17.48 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. We consulted and came to this conclusion. Since this is government information and this point was mentioned by the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, who is not present at the moment, he will be represented by an authorised member or a member of the Government Vice-President Richard Brabec and I hereby consider this act to be in order. Please, Mr. Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u8	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. My question really only focused on who would represent the government, or who would be in charge. I don't need to complicate your life, I just wanted to know who's competent to represent the Minister of Transport. Even if the Vice Prime Minister is certainly competent in the environment, I do not know to what extent he can respond to myth-related matters, and for this reason I will propose at this moment to interrupt the discussion of this point into the presence of the Minister of Transport, because I believe that the subject should be discussed in the presence of both the President of the ANO member of Mr Faltýnek and the Minister of Transport of Minister Ťok. So I'm putting a procedural motion to interrupt a point in the presence of the Minister of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u9	Thank you. I have begun to vote on this procedural proposal immediately. I'll check you all out, please register with your registration cards. I've reengaged. Looks like the MPs from the lobby have arrived. We will vote on a procedural proposal to interrupt this point in the presence of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 330, 149 Members and Members have signed up for 39. The motion was denied. We will now continue the general debate. Mr. Faltýnek with priority rights. Please, you have the floor. [[There's noise in the room.]] I ask the Chamber of Deputies to remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u10	Good afternoon, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. For the sake of the journalists present, it would be unfair to interrupt this point and to argue again where we are going to put it, because I believe that Minister Ťok said the essential things in his introductory words last time, whether it concerns the tender, which has, in fact, come to an end and the circumstances as the whole issue arose in 2006. And the other good news is that this isn't a law, so we can still discuss it after 7:00. [[Fun in the hall.]] So, in the last discussion of this point, my fellow Members, there were some questions that I would like to answer today, because it was actually written all week about Faltýnek, that he was just fogging, and there were 300 articles and reports about me, or more than 300, that was quite a lot. And I'd like to answer the questions that fell here today. Of course, within the possibilities I have, because you know that the police are investigating the matter, but I'm sure I'm interested in explaining the things that have been said here. Last time I talked about why Faltýnek even began to deal with the myth, but of course you also asked why I met in Brno on the same day and only within one hour with Director Kapsch and the President of the Antimonopoly Office. The answer is relatively simple. Relatively simple and I'll tell her right at the beginning of my performance. Everyone who knows me knows that I'm a fairly active person, that I'm seeing a lot of people, I'm interested in all sorts of information. I've been used to dealing with everyone who asks me to do this my whole life, and when I do, I act where I can - in the House, in the halls of the House, in the restaurants, just where it comes from. So if that's what happened, it was the most effective time at the time. It is generally known that I drive, unfortunately not now, but almost every week from Prague to Prostějov and back, so Brno is actually on its way. And I certainly don't want to be duped into the feeling that the public spaces in the hotel are worse than my MP's office or some secret cellar where no one could see us, hear us, and therefore he couldn't even listen. As for that incriminating date, when meetings took place with the director of Kapsch and the chairman of the ÚOHS, I completely exclude that this could be an influence on the competition, or perhaps even, as I read somewhere, a crime of deception. Interpretations of a similar kind are complete nonsense. I suppose all politicians and journalists honor the presumption of innocence. On this occasion - and I do not do this often, but forgive me for doing this - I would like to refer to the President's relatively fresh quote in an interview for the Young Front Today, where the President said that Mr Faltýnek would make a grave mistake if he were convinced of the correctness of a solution, whatever, and did not express his opinion. Lobbing, which would be corrupt, would be if he offered Mr. Rafaj, figuratively speaking, an envelope. And now back to the incriminating meeting. It's been almost a year and a half, so I can't remember exactly what I said exactly, but I'm sure it was a question of whether the competition is running, whether it can somehow be delayed or cancelled, for well-known reasons publicly declared by Kapsch. Maybe a common problem with the flies that Kapsch was questioning. So in my opinion, there can be no talk of influencing the results of the competition. And such a question, such a debate in my opinion, cannot in any way be seen as interfering with matters that I do not have a mandate to deal with, such as influencing, as something illegal, unethical, something wrong. I was not in the position of the contracting authority, as one of our colleagues mentioned here. My interest was for the competition to be successful and the state to save considerable money. And that's what happened. And as far as I know, Chef Kapsch and his ladies turned not only to the President, as he said in his interview, but also to other politicians, including the pirate party. So there was no speculation between some media or political opponents that only I was approached and called on to do illegal activity. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, on the basis of Law 106 on free access to information, I asked the Chancellor for information on how many times Mr Feix has been in the House in recent times, because of course we all know that he has been here many times and has dealt with many of us. And you know how I turned out? I did not receive this information from the Chancellor for the protection of personal data. So all I have to do is stick to what everyone in the House knows. Mr Feix came to see us often because it is his job to negotiate. And even Mr. Rafaj in the media said he was seeing a lot of politicians. He has it in some way in his job description. [[18.00 hours]] Does anyone else really think that the shop window at the Voronezh Hotel in Brno is a more secret place than an office in the Chamber of Deputies? Does anyone really think that? Where are you sitting behind the window and everyone can see and recognize you? On the contrary, when you meet anyone in the House office, no one sees it. And by the way, as an MP, I have the right by law to meet both gentlemen outside the House. So I'm not defending myself here from something illegal, even though some journalists immediately turned me into basically a convicted man and a criminal. But that's the way things are today. But back to the point. We all know that the myth tender was troubled from beginning to end. The whole competition was still in danger of falling. And by the way, the pirát tried. This is illustrated by the motion for a resolution tabled in the Economic Committee at the time of the running tender. At the time of the running tender! But respectable colleagues and colleagues, in order to understand each other, I can't argue with that. It's their legitimate opinion, which was just the opposite of ours. And completely identical to Kapsch's opinion. That's just the way it is. I'll read you a piece of the minutes from my colleague Polanský's meeting with Director Feix. I quote: "The director presented his vision of the sale of the toll system to the State, which is an option that we support in principle, but it depends on what will be the contents of the sale and how the sub-contracting system will be set up, such as card delivery, banking services, further development and maintenance of software, which is proprietary and owned by Kapsch. To which the Director has promised to deliver the documents." And so on. And then the pirát proposed the resolution by which they wanted to withdraw the submitted breakdown of the Ministry of Transport, thereby knocking down the entire tender that was still running. Colleagues, colleagues, I am not saying, and I am convinced that the pirát' dealings with Kapsch at the time of the running tender are unfair. I'm not saying that. Or criminal. I'm not saying that. This view is legitimate, although I do not have to agree with it. But he won't give it to me, and I have to ask. If everything were the way the media portrayed it, wouldn't I be the person to propose such a resolution? And if I were to act like that and make proposals to Kapsch in the House, I would definitely be a media convict by now. I even think he was publicly executed. Right on the floor of the House. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer those specific questions. Member Markéta Pekarová Adamová: I wonder, then, if, according to your words, which you repeatedly say, and here again, you saved the state such huge amounts of money, why you didn't inform about it even then in any way through the media. So I went to work looking for press monitoring, and I found, for example, that I boasted in November - as my colleague Markéta Pekarová Adamová said, why I did not boast - so I boasted, my colleague, through the President, in November 2016 in Questions Václav Moravec, where I said that we negotiated discounts of CZK 1.5 billion with the Ministry of Transport and that nobody really cares. And in this debate, he was sitting - you know who? Yes, Chairman Kalousek. That is how you can ask it through the President. Next question - Member Jan Bartošek: However, you say that the myth is a topic of political struggle. I ask you: Is the police investigation currently under way part of the political struggle? Do you want to question the independence of the police in this way? Thank you. No, I don't. I don't want to question the independence of the police. And as I have said to the media several times here in the House, the police have behaved correctly, professionally, and I believe in the independence of the police. I do not wish to question this in any way, Mr President, by means of Mr President, the police investigation. Not at all. Member Zbyněk Stanjura: However, President Faltýnek here said that he was part of the negotiating team at the first stage when the contract came from the hands of Kapsch for three more years. Legitimate question is, how did he become a member of the team, if he took it himself and... Chairman of the Faltýnek from his seat, I said so. Well, being a member of the team means I'm dealing with a candidate. Yes, I was in negotiations with Kapsch about termination of contract and discount. I did not participate in the proceedings without publication. In the new competition I was not in the role of contracting, I was only interested in the successful course of tender. Member Jakub Michálek. I'm going to release the introductory sentence and I'm just going to say the first questions: first. I would like to know who has been informed about the activities around the toll system that Mr. Faltýnek has been developing. As I said, as far as the settlement of the old contract is concerned, I, along with Mr. Minister, Deputy Minister of Transport Feranc and Kopřiva, dealt with it. Some media already wrote in February 2016 that Faltýnek solves the myth, e.g. E15. As for my activities around the new tender, they were the same, they were the same as, Mr Michálek, through Mr President, as was your colleague Polanský. To have information, if there's no threat to the competition. Secondly, I would like to know what the coordination was, as President Faltýnek said, partly made with the Minister of Transport Ťok about the negotiations between the President of ÚOHS Petr Rafaj and the director of Kapsch. All this time, it was about getting the competition going well. And I'm glad it did. Unlike you, my colleague, through Mr President, because - and now I'm not saying this in a bad way, yeah, that's just an opinion against the opinion - because your coordination with Kapsch led to the recommendation of the whole tender to hide and continue with Kapsch. Three. In your statement, you said that you were meeting with all the participants in the tender. Can you state how many times, for what purpose and so on? I already said it in the opening word. When someone asked me to meet him, I met him. Just like your colleague, President Michálek, through Mr President. Four. Can you please explain in particular how you calculated the $1.54 billion you mentioned in your speech? Yes, it's relatively simple. I do not know if, through Mr President, you have ever negotiated any trade. But I suppose so. Me too. The aim of these negotiations was to end the treaties without ending, to abolish pointless additions and save for the state. For the entire duration of the contract, the State paid two billion crowns a year. We reduced the price to CZK 1.5 billion a year, which is CZK 500 million a year, times three years is CZK 1.5 billion. I think everyone will understand that. [[18.10 hours]] And then there were basically three questions about the media charge that I was the middleman between Kapsch and the UOHS and so on and so on and so on. So I wasn't the middleman. He wasn't. And the last question, therefore, was to the Minister of Transport, I do not want to answer for the Minister of Transport, which concerned Mr Jiří Švachula, how he became a member of ČD CARGO's Supervisory Board. So I'll give my opinion, or my answer. That's a question for shareholders. And ČD CARGO's shareholders are the Czech Railways, a. s., as the sole shareholder, Mr President Stanjuro, through Mr President. So the question is legitimate, but it's a shareholder question. Colleagues, colleagues, let me conclude by saying what the YES movement has been all along in this matter. Once again, I know some of us don't want to hear this, but we wanted to make it cheaper to choose a myth in a transitional period and compete properly with a new supplier or a new operator. Looking back on the whole thing, it all worked out. These numbers are clear and undisputed, we saved CZK 1.5 billion from the original contract between 2017 and 2019. This means CZK 1.5 billion for 2017, 2018, 2019 and for the next ten years we have a savings of at least another CZK 10 billion, which I think is quite large money. And I would like to say that I am not ashamed that I took the mandate and helped end the old contract and negotiate this savings. And what I did, I did for the benefit of the state and taxpayers. [[Laughter from the diaper.]] In fact - I understand that some colleagues are laughing when someone spares our citizens CZK 10 billion. I understand that this is a ridiculous thing. But that's not what we think. And, you know, I find it absurd here to defend the discounts and savings of the state in the order of billions of crowns, knowing how a disadvantageous contract and additions to this particular company were concluded by KDU-ČSL and ODS representatives in the past period! So the parties sitting here today in the House. That sounds absurd to me, my friends. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u11	Thank you. There are three factual points. The first is Mr Zaorálek, who is not present in the hall, so the next is Mr Polanský and Mr Černohorský will prepare. Furthermore, President Bartošek and President Stanjura will give priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I thank the speaker and I for the fact that he mentioned the pirát and our public record of meetings here several times, which, by the way, if the MP had been running alone, maybe today's situation might not have happened. Just take it as advice. However, you did not exactly work with him, because the meeting with Mr Feix, from which Mr Faltýnek quoted, occurred in July, and the resolution about which the pirát put him on the Economic Committee - so they did not vote, none of which was voted on, however, still took place a month earlier in June. And it may be interesting to mention the content of the resolution, which, as the President said, should have intervened in the negotiations, in the running tender. This should have been the following: The Economic Committee asks the Government to carry out an independent audit of the expansion of the toll sections and the economy of the entire plan to create a new electronic toll system according to the parameters anchored in the contract and so on, the deadline of September 2018. - So by this resolution, a request to the government for an independent audit of the entire intention to get a myth, the pirát intervened in a running tender. Please compare this with what we read in the media and how, for example, the President's meeting was to take place with President Rafaj and Mr Feix. I think the difference is obvious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. The next in line is the Member of Černohorský. And I'll read the apology but in the meantime. For today's meeting from 18.15 a.m. to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes, Mrs Karla Maříková and Zdeněk Podal from 18 to 18.30 p.m. for work reasons, Mr Pavel Jelínek from 18 to 18.30 p.m. for work reasons, Mr Ondřej Veselý from 18 a.m. to the end of the working day, Mr Ondráček from 17.45 p.m. to the end of the sitting day, Mrs Pěnčíková today from 17.45 p.m. to the end of the working day, Mr Farský from the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies from 17.30 p.m. to the end of the sitting day due to the meeting in Prague and Mr... I have already read this. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u14	So thank you. Through Mr President to President Faltýnek. As you have already mentioned and beautifully quoted here from the register of lobbyist contacts - if your party had done something like this, journalists would not be so surprised at that moment that you were seeing someone. It can be filled out by an assistant, if necessary. With other colleagues who are always surprised when they read something that we've met, it's a great thing. It's also your defense for the future, so that they don't have to learn about the meetings afterwards, possibly from some leaked files, wiretaps, etc. We're recording everything in those lobby contacts. I know that, for example, colleagues from the ODS within the coalition are doing some research, and then maybe they're asking what we found out about those meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u15	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I, by means of yours, would like to express my deep admiration for the President over the complexity of the explanation. And I have a suggestion or a suggestion. In light of the previous point that we were discussing, if you're not considering a few more meetings at the Continental, let's just say the two mil we're missing from the social services. If you wouldn't do it. Think of it as a challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u17	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u18	Thank you, just for a little while. Mr President Faltýnek, through Mr President, do not be mad at me that your conduct and ordering seem to be rather non-standard. I've always thought that contracts compete through the contracting portal, that it doesn't affect anything, including meeting with the head of the UOHS. And the point is that the last word will actually end up being said by law enforcement authorities, what was or was not true. But you have to say, if everyone behaves like you, we don't need a minister, we don't need a ministry, a few people are gonna get upset about how they're gonna negotiate a contract, and we don't really need laws. Because it looks like you're above the law. 'Cause you guys are actually gonna set it up. This is what I think is that I consider your behavior to be very unusual in the whole case, and I will actually wait for what the law enforcement authorities will bring.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u19	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u20	Thank you for the floor. I am very sorry that Minister Ťok is not here today, even because just when we discussed this point for the first time, I asked some questions and were not answered, so hopefully he will have the courage to find out next time. But I am thinking, I think, a perfectly legitimate question, which I am sure is not just interested in, but all of them here and certainly some of the members of the government, because, at least from the public appearance of Mr Took, we have yet to learn that he has not been informed about the negotiations. Through the President, Mr President Faltýnek, what other tasks did you commit yourself to? What other things are you negotiating in? And what other meetings do you take part in? And is it common practice in your movement that individual Members like this, although I understand that you and the first vice-chairman of the movement and you are the chairman of the club, so maybe you have a slightly different position, but do other Members also entrust themselves in such a way as to act on such serious matters as public procurement of this type? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u21	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jan Lipavský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u22	Thank you. I listened very carefully to Mr. Faltýnek's statement. I was intrigued that he was an active man, and in combination with the fact that he took his own mandate. It doesn't exactly suit me when he talked about the fact that Minister Ťok, Deputy Feranec, Kopřiva, had been informed about the activities. So I see a kind of obvious contradiction between whether it was one person's activity or whether there was an activity of a group. So I really think this should be explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u23	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u24	Thank you for the floor. I think it is a shame that the Minister is not here because, logically, President Faltýnek cannot answer questions that I, for example, have asked the Minister. I also found questions that were for President Faltýnek, and he elegantly avoided them. First of all, I want to apologize to my favorite sheep's grandmother's fairy tales, because they are much more credible than what President Faltýnek told us today. And it's not... it's not fairy tales, it's a normal documentary show. President Faltýnek asks if there is anyone here who would mind meeting at the restaurant at the Voronezh Hotel. So I also looked into monitoring. Do you know who does, Mr President, through the Vice-President? The man's name is Andrej Babiš, he is Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and 18. 3., that's last Monday, upon arriving at the Coalition Council announced that it was very inappropriate that you were meeting. So at least one person, absent, but we will find and not the only one from among the MPs. The logical errors I found in President Faltýnek's statement are different from what my previous speaker said, because I think he mixed up two cases. But, first of all, I want to ask. The first case when you discussed the discount, JŘBU for three years - 2017-2018 - I'm listening. [[Messenger. You didn't listen.]] Be patient, I too was patient when you spoke. So President Faltýnek told us: I negotiated a discount and there was Minister Ťok, Deputy Minister Feranec, Deputy Minister Kopřiva, but I no longer participated in JŘBU. In other words - JŘBU was already a trick, because everything was arranged. But that's not how the Public Procurement Act should go. It is therefore a negotiated procedure without publication with a specific tenderer. So what was the contracting authority negotiating? Well, you've arranged it, Mr President through the President, in your own words, but JŘBU, you've already left that at the office. You weren't there anymore. I think that's a serious mistake. And if that's how JRBU appears, it wasn't in accordance with the law. I'm not saying that, that's what President Faltýnek says. He arranged it, and then they ran it in the public contract. Now I'm going to go back to the second case where President Faltýnek, as an active man with the great concern, actively acted in those restaurants near the glass, as he himself said. When he first explained, in the first days, he said he had a mandate. For example, traffic coalition councils. Then he admitted that he did not have a mandate from the Transport Coalition Council and that he took it himself. And today he told us the mandate. [[Nesroz.]] And today he told us he didn't have a mandate. I don't know what's paying. Did he have a mandate? Did someone give it to him? Did he take it himself? He didn't. Originally he said, I got him. Then he said, "I married him." And today he says, I wasn't in the position of the contracting authority, I didn't have a mandate to do that. So he's clearly contradicting himself. When I quoted the Public Procurement Act in the last performance, I said it was either a contracting authority or a representative of a contracting authority. And apparently, according to what President Faltýnek said, as he acted in the first stage, in the first contract, in the second contract, and one of the tenderers, or all the tenderers could see him as a representative of the contracting authority. But notice, when President Faltýnek described the meetings in Brno today, he spoke about the meeting with Director Kapsch and the subsequent meeting - I don't know if it was at the same table and glass, Mr President through the Vice-President - you didn't say a word to us. Well, you didn't say anything. [[Messenger. Faltynek again from the bench comments that messenger. Stanjura wouldn't listen.]] I'm listening. [[Messenger. - You're not listening.]] I'm listening. And I have the floor, unlike you. And the specific question I asked the last time you didn't answer sounded like this - and now I quote from the tape screen: "Who brokered the meeting with President Rafaj? And who was involved? Was he a closely prosecuted politician, maybe a former YES politician today?" I didn't get an answer to that question today. Who brokered the meeting? And who was present to her and whether it was true that it was Švachula... [[Help from the diaper: Shvachula.]] Thank you. However, as the case extends, new and new information is emerging. And it turns out that President Faltýnek is not the only one who tried to influence the course of a particular contract. Who confessed to this on March 18th when coming to the Coalition Council voluntarily, without the police and his professional approach? Well, Prime Minister. Let's do it again. At the beginning of May, I'm sorry. On 9 May the UOHS cancelled the announced competition, the electronic tolling contract, and in the following days, as the Prime Minister says, he and Minister Ťok invited the chief of this supposedly independent and allegedly impartial judge to interpret and try to convince him - now I quote his words - to prevent the conclusion of the contract with the already selected tender winner. That's unacceptable again. [[18.30 hours]] And now we're going to reconstruct the whole thing, how Chairman Rafaj works. First, he meets with the first Vice-President of the ANO movement, who is trying to get the job done after he met with Kapsch. He worked everything out, he was fine. I don't know that you didn't convince the Kapsch not to attack it when you treated them like that. That seems strange to me, but it didn't work out. Then the ÚOHS decides in favor of Kapsch and cancels the contract. After that, the head of the ÚOHS is invited to the rug to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport, who ask him not to prevent the conclusion of the contract with the winner. Then - or before - I don't know - Mr. Rafaj will offer a letter to the Prime Minister to nominate a representative for the decay committee. The Prime Minister's question is how many such letters he received in other contracts, where there was a two-step procedure at the ÚOHS, how many times the chief of this office has Rafaj him with an offer "Dear Prime Minister, please send us an expert to the decay committee." The second question to the Prime Minister, who is not present, but I will ask the Vice Prime Minister, when he represents the government here, is he certainly fully competently equipped: The letter came after the Prime Minister's meeting with the head of the UOHS? [[Crabs]] Or before this act? Was it arranged at this meeting that the letter would come, or did it come before? I don't know. However, the reality is that the letter came, the Prime Minister took advantage of it and the UOHS turned 180 degrees and decided against Kapsch. I don't want to judge whether the ÚOHS made a good decision for the first time or a good decision for the second time. I wasn't a candidate, I wasn't a contracting officer, and I don't have any information. But let's say it gradually and answer the question yourself, rhetorical, so that you don't shout at me if it raises doubts. There's a competition going on, Mr. Rafaj will meet Mr. Faltýnek after Mr. Faltýnek met with Chief Kapsch, and then the ÚOHS will decide in favour of Kapsch. Then Mr. Rafaj is called to the rug for the Prime Minister, who will express his views contrary to Mr. Faltýnek, and the UOHS will decide otherwise. In the meantime, we're still going to use the opportunity to nominate someone for the decay committee. I told you last time I saw the weak spot in the competition authority's decision-making. That's not much to talk about in public debate. And it doesn't seem completely normal for him to change his mind like that. It would seem normal to me if that opinion was against twice or twice, otherwise I don't understand it at all. Mr.Faltýnek's explanation of how the management of České dráhy chose an unknown municipal policy from Brno-center to nominate him to the Czech Railway Supervisory Board has nothing to do with credibility. However, I asked Minister Took, he is not here, I think I will write a written interview and ask for an opinion from the management of the Czech Railways, and if the management of the Czech Railways says that they chose him, I wonder how they came up with him. According to my information from public sources, this person is not an expert in rail transport or freight rail transport. Brno experts - now I don't see my honored colleague Roman Onderka - have informed me of the fields in which this man started his business. I'm sure it has nothing to do with public transport. I find it incredible that, almost two weeks ago, we set a firm point in the negotiations on which we agreed that the Minister of Transport would not come. Because he got questions. I don't know if the Minister of the Environment will answer here. I can fill him with questions about ČD Cargo, about ČD Telematics. The meeting didn't work out there either, did it? Also there were active members of the ANO movement, at least from public sources who acted, acted until they negotiated. I also wonder if you had a mandate there, Mr President, or not. I don't know. There was a problem. You're saying that when you see a problem as an active person, you're dealing with it. I can't believe you wouldn't solve such a big problem. President Faltýnek was upset today - that's a strong word, wondering how the journalists wrote about the fog. So I took a copy of today's press. And President Faltýnek was right. The headline is: "Faltýnek is waiting to be explained, so far he's just been fogging. So if you feel like you've broken up the fog today, I'd say no. At least you said something different about the ČD Cargo story than you did last time. So today's key question is very simple. Did you have a mandate, whether you took it or got it or didn't have a mandate? Last time you said something different than today. And it's kind of important. I understand you're saying today that you didn't have a mandate because that conflict with Section 6 of the Public Procurement Act is serious, with the fact that communication during the procurement procedure can only take place through the contracting authority portal. I don't think you realized that when you were here... I don't mean to brag, I'm looking for another verb that hasn't come out yet... When you informed us here after you took the mandate. And if I have a mandate, then I'm acting as a representative of the contracting authority. Or some applicants might see it that way. So unfortunately, we didn't get an explanation today. I don't want to bother Vice Prime Minister Richard Brabec here, I remember that name well, even though I'm not in the coalition, so allow me to propose that the item be interrupted by the next meeting. I think it is not real to expect Minister Tok to come today and answer those questions. I have told President Faltýnek that I mind that the Minister is not here and that I consider it fair for him to have a chance to perform, and that I will wait until after his performance with my proposal, and I have fulfilled this promise. So we can be more or less dissatisfied with President Faltýnek's speech. I've asked a follow-up question that I either get or I don't get an answer, that's not entirely crucial. The Minister is not here. At the same time, I would like to say for our club that we will not propose a resolution on this point, because we wanted answers to those questions and unfortunately did not receive them from Minister Táok today. So I consider it legitimate to give Mr. Took the floor to answer those questions at the next meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u25	Thank you. Since this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote. I'll reengage. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your registration cards. We will vote on the proposal to suspend this item in the presence of the Minister of Transport until the next meeting. [[protest screams from the hall]] About interrupting this point until the next meeting. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 331, 128 Members and Members signed in for 42, the proposal was rejected. Mr. Faltýnek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I don't want to prolong the debate, but Stanjura's colleague has brought a lot of things together again. And I am sorry, through Mr President, one thing. I am quoting what you have said here, and I am personally very sorry, the only thing you have said here: The Prime Minister will show the opposite of Mr.Faltýnek's opinion, and the UOHS will change his mind. How do you know what my opinion was, Mr. Chairman? From the headlines? And one last thing. We're still mixing, of course, on purpose, I understand the debate, two stages, as far as the mandate is concerned. I said here that in order to negotiate the termination of the contract, to cancel those pointless amendments and to get a discount, that I took this mandate because without that, it would not be possible to enter a new competition. And I said it when Minister Ťok sat here, that it was at the coalition council meeting up here in the Prime Minister's office, then Sobotka, when he wanted to call off Minister Took, unless he resolved to terminate the contract with the existing operator. That's where I took the mandate. But as far as the next period is concerned, I had a mandate just like all of you, as a Member who can meet and ask questions. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u27	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ondřej Benešík is registered. And before I give you my word, I'm gonna read the apology because it's piled up here. Mrs Monika Oborná apologizes today from 19:00 to the end of the working day for reasons of work, Mr Rostislav Vyzula today from 18:30 to the end of the sitting day for family reasons, Mrs Jana Černochová today from 14:30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work, Mr Jan Chvojka from 18:00 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work, Mrs Radka Maxová from 19:00 to the end of the sitting day for family reasons, Mr MUDr. Pavel Plzák today from 18.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons and Mr Ivo Vondrák between 19 and 21.00. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u28	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I think we have learned from the debate that has been going on here in the past few weeks and is still going on today that the Minister of Transport is unable to deal with transport. I will, of course, wait for a relevant explanation, an examination of the entire event. I'm not gonna stand trial. Anyway, it was said here that we had saved - or, as a matter of fact, the funds were saved, the process was accelerated and it got back to normal. I would argue too much in that case if it is true that President Faltýnek should also take over the D1 correction. I think if he were so successful in this, we would appreciate it very much, but very much in Moravia. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u29	Thank you. In the general debate is Mr Polanský, Mr Milan Feranec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, fellow Members, Members of the Government, thanks for the opportunity for pirát to sum up our position on the case of the toll tender. Before that, however, allow me to turn against some misleading information that has fallen on the Pirates' address today, and not just today, even in recent weeks. First of all, there was information that the pirát had met with Director Kapsch, Mr Feix, and therefore they had nothing to criticize Mr Faltýnek, who did the same. It's kind of a media shortcut to what's bubbling in the media space right now. Pirates, however, do not criticize and never criticize the fact that a meeting between the two gentlemen took place. What needs to be assessed here is context. In the case of the Pirates, the meeting took place at the request of Mr Feix, who came to act transparently on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, with the meeting being entered into our records. A procedure that is quite common in the case of any lobbyist who goes to deal with the pirát. The difference between the actions of the pirát and the way the police said he should have done and what President Faltýnek was supposed to say in particular is, I think, obvious and pointless to continue to divorce him. By the way, during our meeting, Mr. Feix mentioned that he was also dealing with other political clubs in the House. But apparently, the pirát are the only ones who aren't afraid to admit it. I mean, admit that lobbyists go to them. Hand on hearts, colleagues, colleagues, which of you and how many times have the representatives of Kapsch met from your election in October 2017 to today? Will anyone have the courage to come out today? I'd say no. [[Member Jaroslav Faltynek from the bench: I confessed.]] Yes. [[with a smile]] It's undisputable here. That's right. Another smiling argument that appeared, and as a mantra, colleagues from surrounding clubs repeat it, is that we took over Kapsch's arguments. The conditions of the new tender from 2017 were, of course, criticised by Kapsch, completely publicly. We all received press releases and information from Kapsch in our mailboxes last and last year. The pirates were probably the only ones who carried out their own analysis of the situation and found that the conditions of the 2006 procurement procedure and the 2017 procurement procedure were indeed different in the structure and volume of the services demanded - and this is important - in the structure and volume of the services demanded. For example, the conditions of 2017 include a reduction in the number of dispensing points for on-board units, which is a layman's number of filling stations where you can buy an on-board unit by more than 50 percent. Or do not contain, respectively do not ask for services such as cancellation bonus, or cancel also bonus for success of selection. These cuts mean saving hundreds of millions of crowns a year and have nothing to do with exchanging technology for satellite. This was followed by a logical question: If you compete with a smaller volume of services, then how can you argue that the new system is cheaper? And so, logically, we asked this question and asked it at the Ministry of Transport. By the way, we never got an answer. Instead, we hear something about taking over arguments. I understand that the drowning straws are catching up, and in this case the straw is supposed to be pirát, but dear colleagues, our ambition has never been anything but to ask questions, which is what the opposition is expected of. Maybe the questions are completely stupid, so be it, but wouldn't it be better to answer them instead of attacking the questioners and avoiding the answers? So much for the introduction of your speech. And now, on the questions of the toll itself, the 2017 tender. We started analyzing this at the end of 2017 with the fact that in spring 2018 we had all the main arguments together. In addition to the information above, which led to further questions on the basis of which we concluded that taking a new toll system is not an advantageous move in those circumstances that were in force at the time. There are more reasons, but they all depend on one fateful moment. Ladies and gentlemen, which one of you really wants to understand this, as they say, toll opera, act two, i.e. events from 2016 onwards, I advise you to focus on one - the idea of extending the amount of toll sections from the current - or the current - then 1440 kilometres of highways to another 900 kilometers of first-class roads. That this is a crucial moment, you can see by the fact that it is not possible to find out who and when came up with this proposal. It follows from my examination that this happened sometime at the beginning of 2016 at the meeting of the already mentioned council of the then ruling coalition several times. It is precisely the same platform mentioned by President Faltýnek in connection with his mandate to negotiate with Kapsch. The minutes of the hearing, if any, are not available. Individual testimony contradicts itself a little bit. The only happiness is that the participants of those meetings, if I'm not mistaken, are sitting in this room today. They may react if necessary. So someone on the board in the first half of 2016 opened the question of the ongoing toll contract. It was closed in 2006, had to pay for 10 years. Thus, at the beginning of 2016, there is less than a year left to compete with the new operator of the electronic myth system. This is, of course, an unrealistic term, which was caused by a series of delays, which were caused by the cancellation of the competition for project manager by Minister Ťok in December 2014. It was 10 days after he joined the Bureau. It is for this reason that the government has decided to extend the agreement with Kapsch by three years - that is actually how President Faltýnek talks about the discount. Yes, yes. Compared to the previous years, he actually gave about 30% discount on the operation of Kapsch, but it was in exchange for the next three years that could continue to operate the myth. [[18.50 hours]] By the way, how was the meeting without publication, which was mentioned here, and its result - the contract was so problematic that the minister refused to sign it himself and rather ordered his deputy to sign it. The contract itself was signed between the Ministry of Transport and Kapsch on Sunday 28 August 2016. At that time, however, it is already rumored that the volume of toll sections will be expanded. Officially, it didn't happen until 7. 11. 2016 at the Government meeting, which adopted Resolution No. 1000 of 2016. The resolution states, I would like to quote: "The Government takes note of the intention of the Ministry of Transport to extend road charging after 2019 by sections of roads where it will be effective in terms of regulatory and cost functions and at the same time it will be important roads for heavy goods vehicles transport, with an increase in the range of tolled roads against the current condition being presented by the Minister of Transport for Information to the Government by 31 December 2016 on the basis of an analysis by the project manager for the implementation of the road charging project in the Czech Republic after 2019. The Minister of Transport will perform, signed by Bohuslav Sobotka, Prime Minister." This resolution officially opened the way for tolling to be extended by 900 km of first-class roads. I state that during my entire search, I have not found any expert opinion, any processed analysis or merely an expression of an expert, or some output by the Ministry of Transport itself in the sense that the toll should be extended by which the government would justify its decision. On the contrary, after the publication of this intention, many experts and other interested parties were found to criticise the intention. I don't think there were any supporting ones. The extension of the charged sections of November 2016 cannot therefore be regarded as anything other than arbitrary, unfounded, unprofessional and purely political decisions that led to the continued use of the current toll system in the final, while the hardware is paid and owned by the State. To illustrate the absurdity of the situation, let us add that now that the battle seems to be fought, the Ministry is retreating from the requirement of an extension of 900 km quietly, although in such a more hidden form, it is retreating. On the basis of the above and on the basis of what I was inspired by President Faltýnek, I would like to propose an accompanying resolution to this House. The accompanying resolution will be the same which the pirát allegedly tried to hack the running tender with Kapsch. I will then submit to it in a detailed debate, but I will now try to read it: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to carry out an independent audit of the expansion of the toll sections and the economy of the entire plan to create a new electronic myth system according to the parameters set out in the contract No. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me for a little longer. I believe it was useful for you and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u31	Thank you. Mr Milan Feranec is another member of the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief. I've heard - and it's a reaction to various statements. I was wondering if there's any point in performing, but the debate is a little weird for me. Question to Mr. Faltýnek, I paraphrase: "Why did you, as a contracting authority, deal with a candidate during the tender?" His answer: "I was not a contracting authority, I asked as a Member, a politician, like many other politicians." Additional question: "Your actions are unusual. Explain why you're like a contracting authority..." We can go around like this. "And why did you take the mandate when you were a contracting authority?" He wasn't a contractor. The Minister explained this very carefully last time, what were the stages of the myth negotiations, when there was a political phase, when it was official. You don't want to hear it, fine. To what has fallen here, and I will respond to Mr Polanský when he says: we have proposed a resolution. I quote precisely from the material discussed at the Economic Committee on 20. 6. I quote precisely: The proposal for a resolution of the Pirates' MP - I note that everyone has been identified with it. Pirates support the implementation of variant B3 and so on and the withdrawal of submitted degradation of the ÚOHS. For the non-lawyers - the decision of the first stage was to abolish the tender, the Ministry of Transport filed a breakdown, a so-called appeal. When I download the breakdown, there's nothing to deal with, it's solved, the contest is canceled! I don't know if my colleagues did it out of naivety, but if they accepted this solution, what would result? To continue the contract with Kapsch, maybe forever. It was a stupid idea, very harmful. And giving it transparently doesn't mean it's not stupid. I apologize for those words. About what fell here. Mr. President of the ODS MP, Mr. Stanjura, said so, perhaps even the pirát, as the procedure was... why the UOHS decides one way or another. If you still agree to the objections that Kapsch gave, then join his lawsuit. I'm saying he filed an administrative suit for annulment, so join us. But let it... As far as Telematics is concerned, I will be happy to explain ČD - Telematics if there is any interest. Very happy, including how it is possible that the state company was private in the 1990s. But I don't want to get involved right now. But I'm willing to explain, and we can talk about it, totally fine. That's my last point. What's the debate about? The last two weeks in the media have been dealt with almost exclusively by the Faltýnek. What he did, what he didn't do, when he'll be called off, how he'll be arrested, how the competition will be canceled, how many years he'll get. The cops are gonna do some work, and they're all doing it online. Everyone's commenting. Sounds like a reality show to me, don't be mad at me. Like a reality show here. And maybe you like it, okay, good, you want to perform. I don't want to be on a reality show. I don't know who the director is, I don't know what he wants. I don't want to be on a reality show. So let's deal with political matters, let the law enforcement authorities work. And the real deal for the pirát is... Or I don't know why he thinks that when two do the same thing, it's not the same thing. The consequences of your actions could have been far worse. Much worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u33	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ondřej Polanský is registered. I'll read an apology. Mrs Miroslava Němcová apologizes today from 19 o'clock to the end of the day and Mr Jan Řehounek also from 19 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u34	Thank you. So I'm going to repeat what we've been discussing the last time. One. This material was not actually discussed on the Economic Committee. The moment that point opened up and the Minister took the floor, if you remember, Mr. Ambassador, he said that I should have brought it up two years ago, and that means he wouldn't have responded to anything. By the way, the audio recordings from the committee meetings are public, so it can be traced on the website of the Chamber of Deputies. So much for discussing this material. [[19.00 hours]] And one more thing. When I say "A," I say "B." The sentence you quoted, of course, is in the material. It's in that chapter proposed solutions for the Pirates. However, you must always state the whole thing, not just pull it out of context. The solution proposed by the pirát in June was based on the fact that the tender should not be carried out, but rather on the contrary, the electronic myth system should be operated by an organizational component of the state. These are the solutions that project manager 4 came up with. 4th last year at the time when the UOHS tender was abolished. Based on the variants described by this project manager, we decided to support variants B2 and B3. Variant B2 means a new procurement procedure to ensure the operation of the existing system by a new supplier, not Kapsch. It's for those eternal times. Someone else could win it. By the way, it was SkyToll, who had already sent a letter to the Minister of Transport in 2015... [[Time warning]] Excuse me, can I join the debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u35	You can sign up, but I have some actual notes here, so after that. Mrs Pekarová, with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to remind myself of the questions I have here towards the Prime Minister, but he is not listening now because he is on a stand-by call with his coalition partner. [[Faltynek, before whom is Mr Kováčik]] [[Mr Kováčik resigned to give the speaker a view of Mr Faltynek, but the conversation continues.]] Well, thank you. I just want to hear the answers... It's not helping.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u37	I would ask if we could discuss this point and pay attention to the Member. We'll wait. We're not gonna...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u38	It's not an obligation, but on the other hand, it's... it's directed to a particular person, so I think it's a minimum of decency. [[The President: Decency. Thank you.]] So I ask myself again, because I would not like to end up with those questions about Minister Took, who had time last time, but did not react in any way, so I was not answered. Mr Faltýnek, through the President, please, if we could hear what other tasks you have entrusted yourself with in public procurement and other cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Milan Feranec, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u40	Thank you. I'm just going to respond briefly to Mr. Polanský. Mr Polanský through Mr President, you are wrong. The material was discussed twice. Five for the first time. 6. And I told you, on that committee, I asked why you're bringing in the material that's like a Kapsch objector. Why are you doing this? So I used a more expressive expression. Why are you doing this? So he was discussing. First time, 5, second time, 19. 6. And if you're saying that you didn't meet with Deputy Kapsch until July, then it's probably just a coincidence that your material is like a Kapsch objector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u41	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Marian Jurečka. Mr Polanský is enrolled in the debate from the point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u42	Thank you. I must say that it is a shame and a big mistake that the Minister of Transport is not here, because when that point was discussed last time, there were rational questions from me, but also from many colleagues. And I was hoping that the Minister would be willing to respond, because then he reacted roughly to my performance in the last thirty seconds of the remaining minutes before the meeting day ended at 19 o'clock. So now we're here to talk about these things... It's nice to see President Faltýnek here. But I would really like to ask about the things that were said last time, and I don't want to repeat them, I did about ten minutes last time, I asked about six questions, but I didn't get an answer to any of them. So I don't think it's completely unnecessary. It's useless that the Minister of Transport is not here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jan Lipavský, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u44	Thank you. Of course, when cases are swept away, it is logical that the minister is not present in plenary, or that he will not appear, because we could ask questions and maybe we could learn something. [[Laughter in the left side of the ANO bench.]] And unfortunately, we haven't yet learned what kind of meetings were going on. We only found out from the media. But Mr. Faltýnek always said "who was interested, so I met." But we don't know how much it was, what it really was. So I would really like to know within the framework of the samomanata that Mr. Faltýnek sort of gave himself as an MP, what other meetings were there, how many were there, what was going on there... Because we still don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u45	Thank you. Mr Polanský, with a factual remark. I take it the debate is canceled. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u46	Once again, on the proposal of the pirát. Our proposal would mean: stop competing with the new toll, let's continue to operate a little longer in the old either with the new operator or in the property of the state, and let's prepare for the option in ten years when we need or respectively. a vision of a costless myth, that means a myth that will not need any hardware, whether satellite or toll gates, because today both microwave gates and satellites are obsolete. We have to think in a different way. And really run a billion-dollar system and distribute some boxes these days on the dashboards of cars is a little off. And it's a shame to compete with a new system of identical parameters at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u47	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Pavel Juříček. Before I give him my word, I will read two apologies - Mr Radek Koten by the end of the day and Mr Tomáš Kohoutek's apology between 18.54 and 21.00 on account of work. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen - Ondra, through Mr President, you know how much I love you, but please, let's face it, the pirát have been in favour of Kapsch continuing under some new circumstances. That's how you discussed it with us on the Economic Committee, it'll probably be on the record of the Economic Committee. And it was in that spirit... But it was a legitimate one of the possible variations that Kapsch would be going on, virtually. that the state will take over - the software from Kapsch. And that was one of those thoughts you said on the Economic Committee. Of course, I don't remember the time, but we were all there. So now you're looking at the Faltýnek, processionally, you're all spitting in that you feel like he's crossed some mandates. In general, we have bureaucratized all processes both in the House and in the management of municipalities. And now that Faltýnek has done through the President, sorry if he's successful, we're all still criticizing him for him, okay? [[Responses from the right]] The main result was, and that's because the additions that were actually blocking the normal neutral competition that went well. That's all. So let's not tell the truth here because many of us were there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u49	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Polanský and Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u50	I remember because I had a lot to prepare for those committees. A few things have fallen here. Unfortunately, I do not have to respond to them all during the factual remark, so only Pavel Juříček. Audio recordings are clear. Let's hear them. Seriously, nothing like that happened. But speaking of something like that, the pirát could have jeopardized the tender, so in fact, the only result is when we're on this plane, it was your movement that ultimately caused the extension of the Kapsch contract by three years that fed it in that way. So I'm the fact here... at a time when only a new operator could compete. [[19.10 hours]] I'll turn the question around. Who came up with an extra 900 km extension? Because this is the rock of injury. If it wasn't for this idea, someone else could have run the toll system today. It's been a long time since 2018. So whoever came up with the idea of expanding the system by 900 km of first-class roads is responsible for having to extend the agreement with Kapsch for three years, and for not being able to make it today, we don't know if we're gonna be able to compete with the new one. And not only who, but also when and how he deargued it, I'd really like to know. Since, until the Government adopted the resolution, there was no study or need to expand the charging by additional sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u51	Thank you for keeping time. I'll read an apology. Mr Pavel Kováčik apologizes today on 27 March from 19.10 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. I have three factual points here. The first is Mr Marian Jurečka, Mr Milan Feranec and Mr Jan Lipavský will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u52	Thank you. I will take the liberty of responding factually to my colleague Juříček. If we look back, two and a half years was the time to prepare to launch a public tender for 1. 1. 2017. The assignment at the time within JŘB, to this day I am convinced that it did not meet the legal prerequisites for entering it within JŘB. At that time, Skytoll offered, despite what was being said here, the references to the various additions that he was ready to take over the system regardless of these matters, run it, and appealed to the Minister for a public contest, in which Skytoll was prepared to submit an offer and run it a billion less each year. That means, in those three years, the state would have saved another three billion crowns. And cut into this time. What has just been said here by my colleague Polanský is that the Ministry of Transport has repeatedly insisted on charging more than 900 km of first-class roads, that this is a condition that is immutable and uncrossable, so then Kapsch repeatedly said: Do you really insist? If you don't insist, we're offering an offer that would be 3.75 billion in ten years. cheaper than the current competitor. And I didn't get an answer from the Minister of Transport, what happened in those 14 days when he said he was gonna be there, and then after 14 days, he decided and said that there wouldn't be a toll, virtually. that rate is going to be zero. So why does the state enter into the terms of the tender that infrastructure must be built at 900 km, and 14 days later the state will say so, and the minister has not explained to this day what we threw the money away for. Why? Then why won't he choose? Why did they insist on it before, and why isn't it chosen now?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u53	Thank you. Mr Milan Feranec, Mr Jan Lipavský, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u54	Thank you. That's a good one. I can answer both previous speakers, Mr Polanský and Mr Jurečka. [[President: By me, please.]] Your way. They ask why she couldn't be or respectively. was not a new selection of myth from 1. 1. 2017. I'll give you an answer. Did you see the contract? The genius contract made by Mr. Šimonovský? The contract was that the operator was obliged to surrender all know-how the day after the termination of the contract. The day following the termination of the contract must be surrendered. That means 1. 1. 2017. And the contracting authority was supposed to have a contest before. He didn't have the information. So it's a beautiful contract. The contractor was in a cage and he didn't have the keys. That's what the meeting was about, providing synergies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u55	Thank you. Mr Jan Lipavský, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u56	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Chairman Stanjura here was talking about sheep's grandmother's fairy tales. Sounds to me like it's a little bit of Rakosníček, 'cause there's a lot of fog in there. And really, this mist is going on in an outrageous way. There are meetings with Kapsch all the time, but we still haven't heard what was going on and what was going on at the meetings with Mr. Rafaj. And how many were there? So that is what should be explained quite clearly and unambiguously. And we should hear this. And I would still like to respond to Mr Juříček, who spoke of the great success of Mr Faltýnek. But who made us learn about the great successes? Thanks to the police and the D.A. Well, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u57	With a factual remark, Mr Feranec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u58	Thank you. I forgot to say one more thing about the 900 km range. My colleague Jurečka is not here. There were various proposals from political parties, which we are at the Coalition Council of the Regions. [[unintelligible]] And the folklore suggested a $3,000 bill. Their traffic expert, I'm not going to name him, 3,000 kilometers. We've always said: toll is tax, we're trying to minimize the expansion of myth. And as for the answers, what he said or the response to Mr Polanský, the scope was approved by the government in January... in January 2017, I say that correctly, she had the basis for this, she had a statement from the Ministry of Transport. [[unintelligible]] If you're having trouble finding it, I guess you just have to look into the government's archives or ask the Office of Government. Undoubtedly this information, you'll get the material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u59	Mr Juříček, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm certainly not a conflicting type of person, especially here in this House, but please, let us separate ourselves and learn how to separate form from content. You pirates are still talking about different forms of how it is necessary to formalize the state's governance, which is one of those examples of how you try to degenerate a colleague of Faltýnek. And you're still missing the contents. But the essence of life is to solve content, not form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u61	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík will now speak in the debate, after which Mrs Vrecionová is signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to point out that 14 days ago, we voted on when this meeting will take place on this point. We've specially placed it so everyone can prepare for it. Mr. Faltýnek prepared, answered some of the questions. I'm afraid he missed part of it. That's what happens sometimes. But Mr. Took didn't come at all. He managed to fly in from abroad, or where he was, make the deputy believe he gave him a positive opinion on the abolition of biofuels, rewrite this position, upload it to the system, and get lost again. That seems very undignified to me. At the same time, we would need to know exactly from Mr Took the answers to this case. If I read an article from radio.cz, public media, where you are constantly adding new people to the various councils, Mr.Ťok says: "I did not invite Faltýnek to deal with Kapsch, his behavior was extremely unusual." Then here at the meeting, Mr. Faltýnek says that they were communicating live, collaborating, and that he was taking some kind of mandate. Well, I'd like to hear the story from Mr. Took. Second thing. Why are we even doing this here today? We're dealing with this for two reasons. First of all, because the police at Mr. Faltýnek's house are looking for evidence in this case. And for the second reason, because the councilman for the ANO movement, Mr. Švachula of Brno-centre, sits in custody in this case. And that's why we're sitting here right now dealing with this problem. It is certainly not because we would like to commend Mr. Faltýnek for some one and a half virtual billion he operates here. But it's because your councilman is in custody in this case. And why do I say virtual? Because, of course, the operator, when he threatens to get nothing, is able to give some discount, but that doesn't mean anything about whether it was beneficial for the state or disadvantageous. [[19.20 hours]] And the final remark and the final question to Mr Took, in particular, is how Mr Švachula got into that supervisory board when he had no expertise in transport. The explanation from Mr. Faltýnek was totally for the fun of rabbits. It was just completely absurd to say that a person is nominated for an organ. There's always a particular person who's gonna recommend this person somewhere. And we are interested in who was the particular person responsible for Mr. Švachula sitting on ČD Cargo's Supervisory Board. That's the guy who's in this case now in custody, and he's from the YES movement. So these are my questions to Mr. Took. Mr. Took isn't here, which is why I'm proposing an adjournment. And we would very much hate to have to approach the fact that we will have to take a break from the club, so that the Deputy Minister will look into information or give Mr. Took room to come. Therefore, I propose that we interrupt this item until the next meeting. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u63	There was a procedural motion to interrupt this point until the next meeting. I've summoned the MPs from the lobby. I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We are voting on the motion to interrupt this item until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 332, 105 Members registered, for 36, against 51. The motion was not accepted. We will continue with factual remarks. Mr Mašek and Mr Lipavský - in this order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was kind of started by my colleague, Mr Ferjenčík, through Mr President. I'm the chairman of the Security Commission's Audit Committee for the General Inspection of Security Corps. A colleague of Ferjenčík was also a member of this commission. I suppose he knows how he should behave, he knows what questions he should ask, I suppose he should let the law enforcement authorities take action on that matter. And I just want to say, I'm very sorry he didn't stick with us on that committee because he found out it was about working on that committee. [[Laughs and applause in the ranks of members of YES 2011.]] That it's not, I'm sorry, just chatting. And once again, I would like to challenge him, because I suppose he was nominated for the chairman of the commission at that time, that he had no idea what it was like not to enter an ongoing trial and complicate the activities of law enforcement authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u65	Thank you. Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 19.15 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Lipavský, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to tackle the nasty personal attacks that have just been made here by Mr Mašek. [[Dissenting speeches in the ranks of YES 2011.]] First of all, how the pirate club will occupy individual committees and committees is purely our business, this has always been respected and respected here. For your information, the reason why Mr Ferjenčík is not working there is because he is, among other things, a member of the Financial Committee and constitutionally legal, which are one of the most demanding committees in this House, so I hope you know that too. So I would like to say that it really is a contempt for this House and parliamentary democracy, when we have a point here called government information, but there is really no one here to speak for the government. I'm really enjoying this! And I have to say, what we're learning here, and the information that's coming down, it's kind of blowing me away from this '90s smell, this little house. [[Yes: You haven't been there yet.]] I was! I was, Mr. Ambassador. So that's my three points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u67	Mr Ferjenčík's factual comment follows, followed by Mr Schiller with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to respond to the challenge of decency. Mr Mašek here, through Mr President, is mastering some decency, and your minister is not coming to a meeting that he knew about 14 days in advance, and he is not sending anyone to represent him here, no one is speaking here. It's his point and his responsibility, and you're mastering us out of some decency. Who do you think you are?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u69	The following are the factual remarks made by Mr Schiller, Mr Hájek and President Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor. Please calm down, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u70	Thank you for the floor. I'd just add a certain thing. I'm also a member of the GIBS Permanent Commission. He just wanted to say that, through the President, Mr Ferjenčík, you applied to the chairman of this commission, so you didn't show up once, and you even had trouble finding the documents you were given.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u71	Mr Hájek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, you know, I work in the Defence Committee, and one of the topics was to establish a military service. And when I hear our fellow pirát here, I think I'm gonna do it again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u73	Mr Ferjenčík, with a factual remark, followed by Mr Richter and Mr Třešňák. [[It's like a messenger. Falty.]] Sorry, it's your turn after Mr Ferjenčík. Yes. Thank you for reminding me. You report from the scene, they prefer electronics, but I've got you on record. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask Mr Schiller - I hope I remember his name well - to apologise by your means, because I normally came to that committee. I don't know what you're making up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u75	I will now give the floor with a factual remark to President Faltýnek, after whom Mr Richter. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u76	Thank you for the floor. It is a pity that we do not focus on the topic of myth and the topic of Faltýnek. [[Laughter.]] However, I would just like to remind you that Minister Ťok has been duly excused, he is at a meeting of the Ministers of Transport in Bucharest. Romania is the Presidency. I'm just - I'm not sorry, I'm just saying he was just excused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u77	Thank you. Mr Richter. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u78	Thank you. I didn't want to perform as a but... [[Laughter.]] I'm completely disfigured in this House, all unhappy because we've been here for a year and a half, for a while. I thought we were actually going to work here, that we were going to do something constructive, and you, dear pirates here, are making a farce out of it through the President. Mr. Lipavský, the Budget Committee is here in the House, there is no Financial Committee. Maybe you have it, and Mr. Ferjenčík is the only deputy there, then his attendance will be 100%, because we don't have a way to check it out. Two. Mr Ferjenčík, through Mr President, Mr Švachula has failed as an individual, not an YES movement as such. Mr. Švachula is not even a member anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u79	Mr Třešňák, after which Mr Lipavský - factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u80	Have a good night. I do not want to argue about who has turned this place into a farce, but I will respond briefly to Mr Hájek through Mr President. The real discussion is about something other than sending us on a basic military service so we can have what we want on it. [[Laughter in the ranks YES 2011]] So I'm gonna ask if you want to send us to VUML or something else that was standard 30 years ago. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u81	Thank you. Mr Lipavský - factual comment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I apologise to the members of the Financial Committee for naming them to the Committee on Budgets. [[Screams from the O.R.: On the contrary!]] On the contrary, the budget committee said I called them financial. You know the Simpsonův, too, as they write it down, so I'll write it down to remember it and not make that mistake anymore. Well, of course, Minister Tok knew it in advance for 14 days, and as your Prime Minister says, he has to participate in the bread blabbermouth, and he can't be here to explain the quite serious case. That upsets me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u83	Mr Cernohorsky, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u84	Thank you for the floor. Maybe I'd like to calm the debate a little bit so we can get back to the subject. I wish we could get some answers from the Minister of Transport. I would therefore propose, given that some evening hour is approaching, that we interrupt this meeting by 1. 4. 2019, because if this discussion continues, I would be forced to take a break, if necessary, to calm the situation, so that the Minister can in the meantime provide some answers at the Ministry of Transport to the questions that have been raised here. So I would like to ask for a procedural vote to interrupt this point by 1. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u85	Yes, I have called on Members who are not present in the Chamber to come to the vote. I'll check you out when I hear a request. I did, and I'm asking you to rejoin your voting cards. Mr Černohorský made a motion to interrupt this meeting by 1. The 4th of this year. I will now vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 333 108 Members registered, for 35, against 55. The motion was not accepted. With a point of fact, Mr Nacher will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u86	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure you know what I'm saying. That I didn't want to talk, but I want to set up a mirror for you. I'm your mirror, my fellow pirate-sided pals. Speaking of the absence of the Minister of Transport, who knew it 14 days in advance, I would like to remind you that your supreme chief executive, the mayor, was absent in the first three months at more council meetings than the mayor's in four years. So please head that way when it comes to the present. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] And I hereby greet him somewhere in Thailand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u87	Thank you. President Bartošek will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to return this ongoing discussion to substance. [[There's a noise in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.]] And just for the record, I don't want to repeat that we still haven't received an answer from President Faltýnek, how many times he's met Kapsch, or whether you've met SkyToll or whether you've met anyone else. If you can't answer for any reason, say it's impossible to answer. I'm still waiting for that answer. Alternatively, whether you have dealt with the UOHS repeatedly. That means if you say you can't answer that, I'll understand it, but I still haven't heard it. The whole myth is quite a complex story, even historically back. I'd just like to say some things here, and I'm sorry the Minister isn't here, because with the myth, Minister Tok... Because I expected a substantive discussion, for example. on the introduction of a European electronic myth service. I know that at the moment this thing is already being tested in some way, but we were obliged for vehicles up to 3.5 tonnes to introduce it to 6. 10. 2012 and for other vehicle types until 2014. We received two letters from the European Commission when this was mentioned and contradicted. And here I see the failure of the Department of Transport, which instead of dealing with conceptual things, has been putting things straight. I wanted to ask whether the assignment to that European service of electronic myth went to competition or was given freely out of hand. Among other things, e.g. of which 2016 is very interesting that the tender procedure was launched on Saturday 27 August 2016, it was awarded, and the contract was signed the following day, on Sunday 28 August 2016. This is such a rather special practice that you will enter a contract on Saturday and sign it directly on Sunday. Another thing that the European Commission is writing about, and of which 2017, when the issue of the award of the myth 2016 is being addressed, for example, writes that a negotiated procedure was incorrectly used without publication, thereby violating the directive, etc. etc., and a fine was imposed. But they also talk about, for example. In the middle of 2016, the contracting authority did not seem to extend the near-end electronic toll contract by the time necessary for the new open procurement procedure, as it proceeded to extend the contract for a further three years, which is almost a third of the original period of validity, and this period seems disproportionate and unjustified. It also comments on the review authority, which was the IOHS, and it says that in the field of public procurement, that is the direct award of a public contract, the cash penalty was 1 million, which represents one nineteenth of the daily revenue from the toll collection system. Basically, it means that the income ticket was about one hour of traffic. And it is noted that this fine did not have the character it should have, that is, to speed up the competition. And as you have said here, President Faltýnek, through Mr President, that the Treaty had no end - that is not true. This letter states that when it refers to the proportionality of the extension of the three-year contract, it is said that it has been extended by three years with clear awareness of the date of expiry of the existing contract, which was 31 December 2016. And for the record, I say here - and this is also in the letter - that the 2012 Government Order asks the contracting authority to propose a solution for the extension of the contract. This means that from 2012 it was known and in 2016 it was entered into a negotiated procedure without publication. This is a matter that surprises me personally, and I assumed that the Ministry of Transport knew about this government resolution at the moment it moved under the YES movement and would look for a way to extend the contract. I recognise that we are talking about 2017, until then, the situation surrounding the European electronic toll service has been introduced, but I ask whether it has been competitive or how it has been dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u89	Thank you. Mr Feranec will respond to a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u90	Thank you. I will respond to what Mr Bartošek said, through Mr President. Yes, even one of Kapsch's objections was that electronic competition of European electronic myth is not taken into account. That's right, you repeat it. All I'm saying is that this was taken into account by the OOHS and dealt with it, so you're repeating the objection. As far as the contract is concerned, clearly it had an end, but it was not possible to compete because the operator provided the information the day after the contract was terminated. And that contract was brilliantly written at the Department of Transport for Mr. Šimonovský. Brilliantly written, just not for the state. Not for the state, for someone else. And as far as it goes, yes, JRBU was a last resort, none of us were happy about it, but the only thing we could do. The UOHS assessed it, fined it, but in its amount, the million, took into account the situation in which the contracting authority was in. And why was he in that situation? Well, because someone led him there, some predecessor who signed the contract in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u91	Thank you. Apology - from today's meeting from 7:30 to 21:00 for business reasons, Mr Petr Venhoda. Vice-President Hanzel has been apologizing since 19.30 for work reasons. Mr Ferjenčík's point of fact is now followed, followed by Mr Bartošek's point of fact. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond to a colleague through you - unfortunately, I don't remember the name - about the failure of the individual versus the failure of the movement. Unfortunately, that is precisely what we cannot judge with Mr. Švachula, because we have not yet learned how he got into that position. If Mr. Faltýnek didn't design it. And that's what Mr. Took was supposed to tell us here, and we haven't found out yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u93	Mr Bartošek's point of fact, and then the last Mrs Vrecionová in the debate so far. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u94	Thank you. Just an answer to my previous speaker to be relevant. I've never met any of the representatives of Kapsch. I only quote here from the letters sent by the European Commission. And I'm asking in a matter of fact what it says. And all I'm saying is that it was already said in 2012: look for a solution so that the contract can be withdrawn and competition can be sought. Four years before 2016, it didn't fall out of the blue. You're telling me that the Ministry of Transport hasn't found a solution to the toll transfer system in four years? That sounds really weird to me. Then it has to be dealt with in non-standard ways after hotels. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u95	Thank you. Mrs Vrecionová in the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u96	Have a good night. I finally got it. I would just like to start by saying that this item is called Government Information on the toll system selection process. We've heard this many times before, Minister Ťok apologized. However, I do not understand why the government coalition did not ask for this, or the Minister did not ask for that point to be transferred to another term. I think the House has always complied when he knew he couldn't be here in advance. In the meantime, I've written up some questions during this discussion. I'm not gonna ask you about the toll tender itself. There's just no minister here. I have no one to ask. But I have questions here that I am interested in as a politician, and I assume that President Faltýnek will be willing and able to answer me, and without any preparation whatsoever. First of all, what were the relations of the first Vice-President of the ANO Faltýnek movement with Mr. Jiří Švachula, a man who is apparently - forgive me for the words, but I will borrow the Prime Minister's dictionary - the head of the Mafia octopus, which, in recent years at the Brno City Hall, controlled the coalition ANO and Live Brno during the reign of the city and apparently participated in large-scale crime. Mr Švachula apparently had an important role to play in Mr Faltýnek's dealings with Mr Feix and Mr Rafaj. I would also like to learn from Mr. Faltýnek how much he knew Mr. Švachula. How he met him, who introduced them, whether they had ever dealt with any contracts other than this one. Whether Mr. Švachula really was the one who arranged the meetings between Mr. Faltýnek and Mr. Feix, or the meetings between Mr. Faltýnek and Mr. Rafaj. Whether Mr. Švachula was really present with them. What were the contents of these meetings? See if the Prime Minister knew about them. Did Minister Tok know about them? I wonder what kind of relationship Mr. Faltýnek had with another accused ex-member of the ANO movement Petr Liškutin. See if they know each other. Whether they've ever dealt with business stuff together. Whether he had a role to play in Mr. Faltýnek's negotiations with Rafaj or Feix. I consider this whole case extremely serious and I believe that President Faltýnek will answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u97	Thank you, Madame. Two factual points will follow. Mr Lipavský, Mr Mašek after him. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am, therefore, wondering why the YES movement is so reluctant to explain why it does not want to invite the Minister here. At the same time, your Prime Minister said on TV yesterday - I will now quote: "I want to invite Mr. Rafaj to the meeting either with Mr. Hamáček, to actually find out his opinion or his explanation. " That means, even in your ranks, there's a desire to explain this case, but I feel like we're really not moving anywhere. And I don't know, maybe Minister Took hasn't come back by any chance from this time in Romania? Couldn't you verify that? After all, we've come a long way in time, so I don't know if you have any contact with him, so maybe call him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u99	Thank you. Mr Mašek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vrecionová, through Mr President. I guess you weren't here when I spoke to Mr. Ferjenčík. It's just that the way you ask questions is completely inappropriate, totally unacceptable. Because - I said so here. Leave room for the authorities active in criminal proceedings. To me, the two colleagues appear to be performing - I feel the time of Prosecutor Urválek here. This kind of investigation, it's not possible. So I'm asking you to honor the fact that this is being investigated by law enforcement authorities. [[A reminder from the diaper.]] Criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u101	Other factual points will follow. Mr Válek, Mrs Procházková, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Benda. Mr. Válek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u102	[[With a smile:]] Well, I didn't hear it. In that case, I'm sorry. I have been called here by Mr Mašek, the President. However, we're already spinning a lot in a vicious circle. It kind of feels like a conversation with a healer to me. But I would like to go back to what that point is called - Government information on the toll system selection process. That point has been on the agenda for a long time. I suppose at least twice the government discussed this point at its regular meetings. That means the Deputy Prime Minister knows what they were discussing in the government. Besides, only the other two ministers can know. And that the Prime Minister knows how this government stands. Because what kind of Vice-President wouldn't know? We are lucky that the Deputy Prime Minister is here, so I would like to finally get to this point, and I ask the Vice-President to tell us what the government has been dealing with on this point, if there is anything at all, and what the government has agreed on on this point. [[Brabec sitting at the newsstand]] Thank you so much for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u103	Thank you. Mrs Procházková. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u104	Good evening, everyone. It's pretty smiling in here. In all this time, I've learned one thing about who and what to do here. That someone here is really upset that the Kapsch didn't win. And I'd really like to know who cares.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u105	Mr Pavel Jelínek apologizes for today's meeting from 18.45 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Ferjenčík's factual comment follows. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u106	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond to Mr. Mašek. And if we really want to know how a former member of the ANO movement, even a former councilman for the ANO movement, got into office on the Supervisory Board of a state firm and who suggested it, we really don't need this question in the meantime to put an end to the investigation of the entire case, someone was convicted, and I don't know what. If we want to know who specifically designed it there, that's a simple question. I believe Mr. Faltýnek is aware of this, and for some reason he refuses to tell us. Maybe he doesn't know, maybe Mr. Took knows. And that's why you refuse to say it here. I don't understand why, if Mr. Took isn't here, why don't you normally interrupt that point so we can get the answers to those questions and we can shut this place down. We don't have a problem with that. We can meet on Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u107	Thank you. Mr Benda with a point of fact, after which Mr Žáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u108	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I really did not want to be involved in this debate. But I am a gallant man, most women in this room know, and I ask Mr Mašek to apologize to her colleague, my colleague Veronika Vrecionová. The comparison with Urválek is really insolence! Plus, I don't think my colleague Vrecionová would ask anything, anything that's being investigated in criminal proceedings that may be running somewhere in Brno. She asked political questions related to what we see in public space. And by the way, this introduction, when someone's a suspect, is automatically a criminal, your big boss set up here five or six years ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u109	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Žáček, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u110	Thank you for the floor. I'm basically gonna say something similar to my colleague Benda. Let me put it another way. I will say this by saying that not only was the attack on Mrs Vrecionová not possible, but it was mainly a comparison of the communist court of the 1950s, on behalf of Prosecutor Urválek as part of a machine that condemned people to a long-term prison, or even sent to an execution ground. And it is totally unacceptable to compare this to the session of the Chamber of Deputies in 2019. It also broadcasts live broadcasts on radio and later films throughout the Czechoslovak Republic, but we certainly cannot compare this to today's live broadcasts. So here I will also take the side of my colleague Vrecionová and defend her honour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u111	Thank you. Mr Lipavský, with a factual point, followed by Mr Výborný, Mr Mašek, factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has inspired me to do what is actually possible. For example, the Ministry of Defence plans to purchase armored transporters for 50 billion - 53, thank you for the repair. [[voice from the diaper: 53]] And as we know from the example of the Pandurs, such contracts will also reach the Antimonopoly Office. And I would therefore like to know if some of your members are planning to take up the mandate when your minister is doing some sort of 50 billion-dollar tender. Well, maybe we can answer that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u113	Thank you. Mr Výborný with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. On the one hand, I wanted to turn against the outrageous analogy used here by your colleague Mašek against Mrs Vrecionová. She's asked a series of political questions. Whoever was asked is silent with a smile. And that's it. But no interference with the work of law enforcement agencies has really been implied here. Not even implied. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel it would be good to suggest that we tax the smoke screen. Because we wouldn't only have that to fund the social services, but we'd still have enough left over for the teachers' salaries! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u115	Mr Mašek will respond. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u116	Yes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise to this colleague Vrecionová for making a disproportionate comparison. However, I must insist on the rest, and I consider those series of questions to be interference with the activities of the authorities involved in criminal proceedings. It's a different view from colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u117	Thank you. At this point, I have no factual point, and no one is entered into the debate - Mr Černohorský is entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u118	So thank you for your word. I've already said what we'd like to hear before, and that's the answer from the Minister of Transport. And if we have a representative here who should probably be appointed by the government, I would like to ask for a break until 20.10 at this time, so that the Minister has sufficient time to find out any answers from the Minister of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u119	Mr. Ambassador, are you requesting a recess for the Pirates' MP's meeting until 20.10? Yes, I will, of course, grant such a request. So I'm declaring a recess for the Pirates' MP's meeting. We'll continue in 20.10.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I greet you for the third time today. It's 20.10 o'clock, so after the break, we'll continue to discuss today's show. I have a registered Mr. Benda. Before I give him my word, there's a note. Mr Bláha apologizes to us from 20.10 until the end of the negotiations for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u121	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid we will not know anything new tonight. For this reason, I am putting forward a procedural proposal to eliminate all unnegotiated points, including this one that we are discussing, from the agenda of this meeting and the meeting, and meet again when the Organizing Committee convenes us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-27-ps2017-027-10-018-149.u122	Thank you, too. I think the proposal we're going to vote on is clear. I've already called my colleagues to the O.R., and it doesn't look like anyone else is coming. There's a checkout request. I'll check you out. Please log in with your cards again. When the number is settled, we will begin the vote. [[He's waiting for a while.]] Looks like we're all here. We will vote to remove all remaining points from this meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 334 106 Members and Members are registered, for 96, against 6. The motion was accepted. This point is then interrupted and eliminated along with all other points. The meeting is therefore over because the programme has been discussed. I'll thank you and meet you next time. I'll see when. Next time we should meet on Tuesday, April 16th, as usual, at 2:00 p.m. Have a nice weekend.
