ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, as amended /house print 367/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 To be sure, I would point out once again that it is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister for Regional Development, Mrs Klára Dostálová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce the amendment of Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, which, inter alia, regulates the drawing of European funds and the coordination of cohesion policy at national level. Part of the setting up of the implementation structure for the drawing of European funds in Section 18 of the Act is also the existence and functioning of the advisory body of the Government, so called. Council for European Structural and Investment Funds. Its main contribution is to pre-negotiate selected issues related to European funds, so that it is no longer necessary to engage in a detailed discussion or technical aspects in this agenda during official government negotiations and resolution approval. Furthermore, of course, other partners are present at the Council for European Structural and Investment Funds, so that the debate is indeed rich. The law in force empowers the Government to approve the Council's Statute and provides that the members of the Council are representatives of central government bodies, ministers and representatives of advisory and working bodies of the Government. The Statute approved by the Government therefore contains in its Annex a list of members of the Board. [[15.20 hours]] Furthermore, the law in force lists the headings discussed by the Council. This is, for example, the consistency of the implementation of the programmes towards the Partnership Agreement and the strategic documents of the Czech and European countries, the interface and the link between the programmes with the focus on ensuring synergies. The Council also discusses the distribution of funds between operational programmes and the proposal for amendments to this division, which is subsequently approved by the Government. The law provides for the Prime Minister to chair the Council. The Council's Statute then states that, in the absence of the President of the Council, he is represented and the Executive Vice-President, who is the Minister or Minister of Local Development under the Statute, is in charge of the meeting. Given that the Council is an advisory body of the Government, it proposes to re-consign to the Government by law the possibility to determine by its resolution which a member of the Government will lead the Council. The Government therefore proposes to Parliament a very brief amendment consisting of replacing the word "President" with the word "Member." This amendment will allow the government to make a flexible decision on its own which of its members will direct the Council's deliberations as its advisory body. In view of the briefness of the amendment of the law, I propose to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's bill should be approved at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I would like the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Kubík, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u4	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The content of the House press 367 is very brief. The proposal consists in changing a single word, namely the exchange of the word "chairman" after the word "member" in Section 18 (1) of the Treaty. 8 of this law. The government as the proposer of the proposal led to the design of this change in experience with the practical implementation of the existing legislation. The existing wording of the Act regulates, inter alia: the existence of the activities of the Council for European Structural and Investment Funds as an advisory body of the Government. The board's activities are intended to assess both conceptual and up-to-date issues relating to the drawing of European funds before such questions are submitted to the Government for discussion and decision. The Council does not decide, but, after discussion and thorough discussion, proposes to the Government systemic measures concerning European funds. On the proposal of the Ministry of Regional Development, which is coordinator of cohesion policy under the conditions of the Czech Republic, the Government then approves relevant decisions, such as the allocation of European funds between operational programmes and the like. Under current legislation, the Chairman of the Board is Prime Minister and the members of the Board are then representatives of central government bodies and representatives of government advisory and working bodies. Details governing the composition, competence, organisation and activities of the Board shall be laid down in the Statute of the Council approved by the Government. This designation, to date, exclusively of the Prime Minister as Chairman of the Board, is not sufficiently flexible from the point of view of the actual functioning of the Board in view of its activity and the nature of the materials under discussion. Given that the Council is an advisory body of the Government, it proposes by law to entrust itself to the Government with the possibility to determine its resolution, which a member of the Government will lead the Council as its chairman. The Government's proposal therefore contains a brief amendment consisting of replacing the word "chairman" with the word "member." This amendment will allow the government to decide on its own flexibility, which of its members will conduct the deliberations of the Board as its advisory body. This is a government proposal approved by the Government on 17 December 2018 under Resolution No. 871 with the agreement of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government and with the recommendation that the Chamber of Deputies should agree to the proposal at first reading. In view of the objective of the proposal, which is the flexibility of the functioning of the Government advisory body in the field of European funds, and in the light of the briefness of the proposal, it recommends: The Chamber of Deputies has already adopted this bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate to which President Bartoš is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, Mr President. I would like to speak briefly in the general debate on this government amendment changing one word in the law. The law itself is written correctly. The problem is somewhere else. The problem is that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Andrej Babiš is in a proven conflict of interest with the financial regulation of the European Union. The Pirates' MP club knows it, Transparency International knows it, some clubs in the House know it. The European Commission's legal service also came to the same conclusion. And the problem here is not that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic can participate, and he should probably participate correctly in shaping the European Union's grant policy towards the Czech Republic, that is correct. The problem is the moment the companies of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic cleaned up in the trust fund are the largest collectors of these subsidies. And the European Commission has responded very intensively. It saves historical payment of grant programs within the Czech Republic. Commissioner Oettinger has clearly called on the Prime Minister to resolve his conflict of interest. And what did the Prime Minister say? The Prime Minister said, "I'll go outside the door as soon as this is discussed." I would therefore like the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic not to be at the door when such amounts of finance are being discussed so that he can be in line with European legislation in that hall and participate in this. And that does not really solve this problem by changing one word. In my opinion, this is a rather cheap gesture towards the European Commission, which unfortunately looks at some laws in the Czech Republic in such a way to tick - it does. Therefore, the Czech Republic, as laws are passed, is growing on the upside of the fight against corruption. We're fighting corruption. But the ranking is quantitative. Do you have a law that solves this? Yes, we have a pipe, you're up by a level. Whether the law really solves conflicts of interest or the fight against corruption, at least it won't see to the audience watching the media. And so we come to this change, which de facto, and it has also been said here from the Minister, and from the rapporteur, does not solve anything. The ESIF shall be an advisory body. Where, then, is it decided? Yes, it is the government's decision again in the prime minister's opinion and the government of individual ministries. We think this step is just a gesture. However, if the government wants to open this law, we have already passed legislation on to our analysts, if there is really anything to change that would at least partially solve the problem. I have had the opportunity to talk about this with representatives of other MPs, and I am also speaking on behalf of ODS and TOP 09, we are currently vetoing the draft of this law in the 90's, and we will look more at whether we can take real steps to open this legislation, which would somehow offset the trivial state of conflict of interest of Prime Minister Babiš. I'm not talking about Lex Babiš right now. At this point, I am talking about the European Union Financial Regulation, which dates back to the summer of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u7	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u8	Thanks for the word. President Bartoš mentioned here at the outset who is aware of the conflict of interests of our Prime Minister. I think the good news is that even the government is aware of that. This bill clearly shows that the government of the Czech Republic is aware of this. The solution is in the spirit of the Czech proverb, that the wolf eats and the goat stays whole. I can already see those resistance ministers in the advisory department who are pushing for something completely different than Prime Minister Andrej Babiš wants. That's really for a dinner party or some fairy tale piece. But I think it is enough for the rapporteur here to say that this bill is about changing one word. Thank you very much. You can keep those bills.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u9	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is in the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words by the Minister or by the rapporteur. It's not. Since, until now, no objection has been made to the hearing under... [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Was it? Well, I'm sorry, I just left that out. One more deep apology. So we'll continue in the standard way. [[15.30 hours]] In that case, was there no motion to return or refuse? [[No.]] So we will deal with the commandments of the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion like that. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby, and we'll proceed to the vote on the guarantee committee. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. Who's against it? In vote number 30 registered 179, for 141, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I ask if there is an interest in having another committee discussed. I am not registering any such proposal, so we have dealt with all the votes. The proposal to shorten was not made during the debate. The rapporteur with priority rights? But I'm warning you that a shortcut proposal may be... But he can't deliver it anymore. If he wanted something else...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u10	I am so sorry, but I would like to open the debate one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u11	With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. We voted on the guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u12	That's right. I think it's too late. This debate was to be opened before the vote on the commandment of the committee. I'm afraid I can't now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u13	So we've dealt with all the votes, and I'm ending the first reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-05-ps2017-027-01-001-009.u14	Good afternoon, honourable Members. We'll proceed with the approved agenda. The point we're going to discuss is
