ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending certain tax laws in the context of raising public budget revenues / House print 509/ - third reading We launched this item on 18 October at the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and the debate was interrupted. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Budgets, Mr Milan Feranec, take a seat. [[9.10 hours]] I would remind you that the motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 509/3, which was delivered on 27 September 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 509/4. We will now continue with the suspended debate, in which I have one written application so far, Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will give the STAN's opinion, with priority rights. So, Madame, you have the floor. I shall ask you to remain calm in the Chamber so that the Member may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me speak for the Mayors' Club and independent of the so-called tax package. I would like to start with the amendments tabled by our club. The first amendment, which I tabled together with Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Bartošek, concerns an increase in the fees for the deposit to double, i.e. from CZK 1,000 to CZK 2,000 for citizens and for municipalities from CZK 10,000 to CZK 20,000, which is the maximum amount, and, as you know, the municipalities often put in the register -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u3	I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down. We'll wait until it's really quiet. Let's respect the lady. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. So I repeat once again that the maximum amount that the municipalities would pay for the deposit into the cadaster would increase from CZK 10,000 to CZK 20,000, which is when the municipalities place large buildings, where there are a lot of entries, or place material burdens, so that the amount increases from CZK 10,000 to CZK 20,000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u5	Well, I'm really gonna ask you to calm down one more time! If the noise level isn't lower, I'm afraid I'm going to have to call a break for one minute to really calm down, because the MP is repeatedly asking me to set things straight. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Mr President. It's obvious you have authority. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So to return to our amendment, which concerns increasing the fees for deposit into the cadastral from CZK 1,000 to CZK 2,000 for citizens, with municipalities from CZK 10,000 to CZK 20,000. However, this step cannot be agreed with, as the main argument for an increase is the need to include inflation from the last correction of the deposit fees to the real estate register. Even from a lay point of view, inflation has certainly not reached 100 percent over the last few years. The government also argues by increasing the cost of the deposit procedure, but this increase is not quantified in any way. It is therefore only possible to speculate on the true nature and purpose of the proposed amendment. Furthermore, we also do not expect the comfort associated with increasing the charges to double actually achieve that the services for the deposit of the cadastral will increase and improve by 100 percent. It is also necessary to mention the ever-increasing prices of real estate that are becoming unavailable for a large part of the population. By digitalisation, and by the cadastral, it is obvious, the more likely should be cost saving. For the reasons set out above, we strongly propose to remove the change in question from the amendment. I think that's one of those examples where the government is looking for funds, and it's clear that citizens, if they buy some real estate, have to go to the cadastral. The village, if it builds, must go to the cadastral. So it's a simple way for the government to pull money out of taxpayers' pockets again, or from the community's accounts. That was the first amendment. The second amendment is Mrs Jana Krutáková's proposal, which extends the group of those who will be exempt from paying the real estate tax for so-called ties. In its reasoning, it states that farmers require the State to reduce land tax on so-called landscape elements, draws, limits, etc. Indeed, they must now pay land tax on such areas to the State, which significantly exceeds the levy on cultivated fields, and draw attention to the discrepancy between the taxation of profitable fields and the uncultivated, but to the landscape of key landscape elements. The Member also extends this exemption to a group of those who do not engage in agriculture, i.e. for citizens. Mrs Krutáková will certainly make an even more detailed statement in the debate on this proposal, because, as I have noted, it was not entirely clear in the Committee on Budgets, which is understandable, it is not that simple, so I think that the Member will make it clear, because the regulation is indeed very sensible. Let me now comment on the third amendment that we tabled. This concerns the very discussed point and this is the technical taxation of insurance companies. As I have said several times before, the government bill in the part where it changes the way reserves are taxed in insurance companies leads to a one-off impact on insurance companies, taxation of future profits, retroactivity and double taxation. My amendment corrects this situation at least in the field of life insurance, where the impact is particularly unfair, because the government wants to de facto tax our citizens' long-term savings on old age in this area, and we certainly cannot agree with that. Therefore, we propose to exempt life insurance from the new regime and leave it under the original scheme. Notwithstanding the government's assumption that the tax on the technical provisions of insurance companies will receive 10 billion in two years. Kč. We also don't think that's right, because he's definitely going to use them for mandatorial expenses and then 10 billion. CZK will be missing in the following years. Madam Secretary here tells me that they will also acquire municipalities. That is precisely - if I can respond to you, Madam Secretary - always the justification is how much the state budget and how much the municipalities get, but what is not mentioned in the proposal and in other tax proposals, how much you take from these municipalities, how much you burden them and what you want from them. So it has to be a little balanced, and the arguments have to be fair. [[9.20 hours]] To the taxation of technical provisions, then. Given that I think this proposal is a compromise, it is reasonable, but that a number of the arguments put by my colleagues and I on the Committee on Budgets have not been understood, so there are some reasons to recall why at least exempt life insurance from the taxation of technical provisions. In general, the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Income Tax Act and the Income Tax Reserve Act leads to an extreme one-off impact on insurance reserves, life insurance of clients, which are mainly citizens of the Czech Republic, and, more seriously, often older, who save long-term in the life insurance system in confidence in its stability and security. Furthermore, the amendment leads to the taxation of future profits of insurance companies and thus to the threat of future payments of life insurance benefits to clients, e.g. benefits in case of deterioration of health status, disability or death. And, of course, the amendment also leads to retroactivity and double taxation. One of the main reasons why this is happening is the confusion and conceptual inalienability, first of all, of accounting reserves according to Czech accounting legislation and second of reserves according to the rules of the European Parliament's directive, so-called. Solvency II. The submitters of the government's proposal on the tax deductibility of reserves propose to exchange the terms of the accounting reserve for reserves under the Solvent II rules without a detailed analysis of the effects of this very technical and complex issue and its consideration in the legislation. This, of course, necessarily leads to major problems that the petitioner of the government proposal did not see at all. This amendment removes the most serious effects of the defects of the Government's bill, up to the risk of payment of life insurance benefits for clients, taxation of most of the future profits of insurance companies in advance and double taxation of selected items. For the sake of compromise, it is resigned to eliminate all legislative shortcomings in the Government's bill. Furthermore, we propose that the taxation of the difference in the transition to the new tax methodology should take place immediately after the first tax period following the application of the law. The amendment in Section 6 of the Reserves Act for the determination of the income tax base brings a change in the knowledgeability of technical provisions in insurance, in the taxpayer's non-life insurance tax base. In this respect it is also necessary to make an adjustment to the subsequent provisions of the Income Tax Act. According to the previous adjustment, for insurance and reinsurance undertakings as expenditure reducing the income tax base, the eligible technical provision was the creation of a technical reserve, with the exception of other technical provisions under accounting regulations, at the level of which it was booked under those regulations, for both life and non-life insurance purposes. According to the amendment, the non-life insurance sector will no longer be eligible for technical provisions under accounting regulations but technical provisions established under the Insurance Act. The technical reserves are regulated by Section 52 et seq. of the Insurance Act, which is based on the European Parliament's Directive, so-called "the European Parliament'. Solvency II. Thus, life insurance provisions under the amendment will continue to be recognised in accordance with accounting regulations. This means that there is no change from the current state. This was a summary of the amendments tabled by our Club of Mayors and Independents. The first, I will repeat, was and is a joint proposal by me, Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Bartošek, concerning the maintenance of existing charges in the real estate register. Then it relates to the so-called drawbacks Mrs Krutáková's second amendment, where there is an extension of those who will be exempt from tax and then so-called. taxation of the technical provisions of insurance undertakings. I would still like to comment on some of the issues concerning the precisely dissenting position of the Ministry of Finance on our proposal, when we leave the so-called. taxation of technical provisions in the current state, because unfortunately I did not have that option at second reading, so I would like to comment on the disagreement and on some arguments provided by the Ministry of Finance to the Committee on Budgets, respectively. and Members. In its disagreeable opinion, the Ministry states: "The adjustment proposed in the government proposal is essential for the correct determination of the income tax base for insurance and reinsurance undertakings, since the formation of technical provisions is one of the essential items affecting the economic result and hence the income tax base for these entities. By narrowing the impact of the new adjustment only on non-life insurance, its intention is to introduce more objective rules to determine the optimal amount of technical provisions for tax purposes and to ensure uniform conditions between insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings, since the difference between the two types of reserves is essential for life insurance provisions. In the case of non-life insurance technical provisions, differences are significantly smaller and their use for tax optimisation, respectively. the deferment of the tax liability is therefore more limited." I, through Mr President, would draw the attention of a colleague who laughs so much. [[He's turning to the left side of the hall.]] I would like you to explain your laughter in the case of citizens who have been saving for years on life insurance, the government's proposal will reduce the yield on this life insurance and, of course, there may also be an increase in insurance. And then maybe it won't be that funny. Maybe it wasn't about the subject, and in that case, I'm sorry. [[- It wasn't!]] It did not, yes, Mr President, thank you. So I take back my reservation. "The narrowing of reservations to non-life insurance alone would significantly complicate the current system and at the same time have no significant benefits." Here I would like to comment on this position of the Ministry of Finance. If we ignore the confusion of the argument, it is said in this paragraph that the Ministry expects less from the new method of taxation of non-life reserves than from the same life reserves. Talking about more objective rules is still the same discussion that the Ministry used for the determination of the tax base a variable calculated for a completely different purpose than objective cost determination, respectively. expenditure necessary to achieve and maintain revenue, while not even bothering to analyse the areas in which its proposal is compatible with its own claim of comparability of conditions with other tax entities. [[9.30 hours]] The point is, among other things, that the reserves according to Solvent II are, as the petitioners, i.e. we draw attention to the amendment, incomparable with the concept of accounting reserves as such. This is whether it is insurance reserves or other reserves. According to the solvency II reserves, items are embodied which, for all other taxpayers, otherwise reduce the tax base. This conceptual difference is particularly apparent for life insurance. Therefore, our proposed amendment to the government proposal. Another argument by the Ministry of Finance is that the proposed adjustment would have a significant selective impact on individual insurance and reinsurance undertakings. In particular, non-life insurance undertakings would have a stricter and more complicated scheme, while the proposed change would only be marginally affected by life insurance undertakings. Furthermore, the proposed adjustment does not include the deduction of deferred cost, according to the explanatory memorandum, in the interest of compromise. Although this was referred to as a fundamental problem in the commentary procedure, the Ministry of Finance took this into account and included the deferred cost of purchase into the calculation. And our counterargument is that this is a compromise proposal that only removes some of the technical shortcomings of the government's proposal. To call on the compromise proposal to be a compromise is at least strange. The care shown by the Ministry of Finance on non-life insurance is particularly touching in this respect. Another argument in the dissenting position of the Ministry of Finance is that the result is therefore a completely non-conceptional solution, which, on the one hand, states the need to address potential tax optimization for half of the cases, and on the other hand, states the opposite for the other half of the cases. And our counterargument is: there is no tax optimization. This is merely an unsubstantiated statement from the Ministry of Finance. The amendment corrects the worst impact of the non-conception proposal of the Ministry of Finance and also does not address all its shortcomings. Of course, the best solution would be to reject the Ministry of Finance's proposal. Another position, i.e. disagreeable, on our amendment to the Ministry of Finance, is a matter concerning technical details. The legislative proposal for an adjustment is inaccurate and does not correspond to the intention set out in the explanatory memorandum and, for purely technical reasons, it is not possible to approve it in this way. It has no reason to calculate the difference between the initial and final status of the provision for life insurance provisions when they are intended to be based on accounting. In this case, as has been the case, the fiscally recognised creation of these reserves should be and all other adjustments are already based on accounting. The solution to taxation of foreign insurance companies also does not correspond to the conclusion presented. So many Department of Finance statements. And our counter-argument is: The amendment corrects the most serious effects of the Ministry of Finance's proposal. It has no shortcomings to prevent its approval, nor does the Ministry of Finance state any such deficiencies. Among other things, the regulation of tax deductibility, where part of the reserves is recognised in the amount entered and part according to another regulation, is similar to the situation before 1999, when the creation of non-life reserves was limited to 60 per cent of the prescribed premiums and the life reserves were taken as accounting amounts. Otherwise, the retention of the accounting regime for life insurance reserves follows entirely from the wording proposed by Section 6. Furthermore, the Ministry states: In Article 5, the definition of technical provisions was modified only for taxpayers based in the territory of the Czech Republic, but not for taxpayers based in the territory of another Member State of the European Union or the European Economic Area and the territory of the State with which the Czech Republic has concluded an international contract governing technical provisions. For these two groups of taxpayers, the regime laid down in the draft law would therefore remain in force, which apparently was not the purpose of the amendment. Here is our counterargument very short and clear. The proposal only accepts domestic regulation in the state of the founder. The purpose of the amendment is to remedy the biggest shortcomings in the draft law of the Ministry of Finance concerning life insurance. Last but not least, I am referring to the Ministry of Finance's argument: The amendment does not further alter the definition of the addition of reserves in insurance and the loss of reserves in insurance, and these concepts therefore continue to include a change in provisions for both life and non-life insurance. In Article 3, points 11 and 12 then govern that the taxable amount will be determined in accordance with Article 23 (2) of the basic Regulation. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) paragraph 19, where appropriate, § 23 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) point 11 of the Income Tax Act provides for a reduction or increase in insurance reserves in so far as they are not accounted for under accounting regulations. This is likely to result in the exclusion from the loss of insurance reserves of life insurance provisions to be determined in accordance with accounting regulations, and the tax base will be reduced in accordance with Section 24 (2) of the Act. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) Income Tax Act. It would be more accurate to provide that the addition and loss of reserves relates only to technical provisions in the field of non-life insurance. And our argument about the Ministry of Finance's position. The economic result will always be affected by the change in reserve status. The question is whether or not. to what extent this change will be fiscally acceptable, which is clearly defined by our amendment. The change in status is the difference between the initial and final status of the given item for the given tax period. It is therefore necessary to make clear that the tax deductible expenditure is a change in the book-by-book stock in the case of life reserves and, in the case of non-life reserves, the accounting change is replaced by the value calculated on the basis of the difference between the initial and final stocks of the reserves according to the solvency ll established. Finally, the Ministry notes that the adoption of the amendment will cause the expected tax revenue to not be achieved. Yes, the Treasury is probably right about that. We don't have any reservations about this here. [[9.40 hours]] And now allow me to respond to some of the Minister's claims, because unfortunately, we did not have the opportunity to do so at second reading, because the Minister's reservations about our proposals, if any. she made arguments after the debate was closed, so I would just like to respond. [[The secretary responds from the rapporteur's desk.]] Yes, of course, in the Committee on Budgets, but we could also repeat this here for Members, so that they know how we respond to some of the Minister's claims. The Minister's statement, which she said, says that insurance companies tax themselves as much as they want. Well, you can't. Because if that were the case, I guess it would have been found out, and it would have been fined. As insurance undertakings are directly required to report insurance-related liabilities as technical provisions. Management only sets a long-term level of caution. Another argument that the Minister repeated that insurance companies could prepare for this amendment. There was nothing to be prepared for. Accounting principles, the opinion of auditors, and also the Czech National Bank, cannot be changed from year to year, and insurance companies must comply with their approved rules when making and dissolving reserves. This is best demonstrated by the fact that insurance companies did not start reducing technical reserves, although according to the logic of the Ministry of Finance they had. We recorded some comments on the subcommittee, from the mouth of representatives of the Czech National Bank, and the insurance company also confirmed that the Czech National Bank demanded that the insurance companies should have reserves of 40 percent higher. Reserves, that's something that doesn't just lie on accounts, cash, but insurance companies invest them in long-term products just within the security and stability of each insurance undertaking. If that is not the case, Madam Secretary - because the Czech National Bank has yet to say, and the insurance companies have also stated that if the insurance companies fail to comply with what the Czech National Bank has recommended, there is a risk of administrative proceedings for insurance companies. So as for the argument that insurance companies could prepare for this amendment, according to the insurance companies and the Czech National Bank, it is a little different. And I would ask the Minister if she could still comment on this fact, so that we can be clear about what it was like. Insurance companies, stated by the Minister, have an advantage over other entrepreneurs. And here I must say that this is not the case. It's the other way around. Insurance undertakings must use accounting procedures specifically designed for insurance undertakings. According to these procedures, the technical provisions must also charge items that other firms charge as a time distinction, which is always tax-recognizable in ordinary companies. After possible adoption of the bill, they will be disadvantaged against other sectors. And among other things, insurance companies, of course, created reserves and counted on these reserves, calculated for the long term, but did not expect a bill like this to happen when they suddenly get those reserves taxed. Well, of course, the reason that insurance companies argue and we can argue with them, because we identify with them that once the rules change during the game, it is completely wrong for long-term products. And, of course, experts say that insurance can be expensive, there may also be less advantageous insurance policies. In short, insurance companies will transfer their - in quotation marks - losses in the form of taxation that the Ministry of Finance is preparing to their clients. That was our statement on some of the remarks made by the Minister, which could not be responded to during the hearing of the law. Of course, we have other statements, but I want to give other colleagues an opportunity, so I would sum up that the taxation of the technical reserves of insurance companies is very disadvantageous. It is disadvantageous not only for insurance companies, but above all it will be disadvantageous for their clients, for citizens, and as I have already said, it is precisely for senior citizens who have long-term savings in the interests and minds of the future and want to insure themselves in case of any risk. Mr President, then you can speak through the President, if necessary in the debate, in response to my - [[Nacher]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u7	Please, Madame, leave the meeting to me, I have it under control here, and the Members will surely sign up if they want to perform. You don't have to run the meeting for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u8	Yes, I am sorry, Mr President. It's just that Mr Nacher is yelling at me here, so I just can't hear him, and I'm sorry I can't hear his reservations that it might be a fruitful discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u9	To be balanced - yes, Members speak to each other on a microphone. So I'm calling on everyone to comment on the microphone so that it's recorded, and you haven't shouted at yourself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Now, let me make a general statement on behalf of the Mayors' Club and independent of the tax package. I repeat again, the bill has some wording and ends up being a bill in connection with raising public budgets' revenue. And we personally named it in connection with how to pull money out of taxpayers' pockets. The government promised that it would not raise taxes, and here is an example that it does not respect this and that it increases taxes. At first reading, we had the opportunity to watch a very long speech by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health about the need to combat addiction, so gambling, alcohol and cigarettes must be taxed. Taxation of vices is natural. However, by raising taxes, it certainly does not lead to a fall in smoking less, less drinking or less playing because it is an addiction. And we all know that if someone is addicted to cigarettes, alcohol, or gambling, they simply and well will continue to do so, even if it is more taxed, and that makes it worse, because of course we know the consequences from families, the consequences really affect the lives of many families. So at first glance, there is no objection to this increase. However, in the speeches made by the Minister and the Minister for Health, it was said that it was important to combat addiction and, above all, to work on prevention. That's also true. I can't agree with that. Of course, if you look at the draft state budget, what will you find out? You will find that the draft state budget for prevention will be 10 percent less money than this year. And then the arguments that have been made here are wrong for me. If the government meant it, it would definitely increase the funds for prevention. [[9.50 hours]] Perhaps we still need to mention how it is with the tax of gambling. Experts say that gambling taxation needs to be graduated. For example, higher taxation of the most risky gambling. And if you look at the bill, what do you find? You will find that there is an increase in lotteries, lottery games, at odds. For lotteries from 23 per cent to 30 per cent, for odds from 23 per cent to 25 per cent and for the most harmful gambling, for slot machines, which have the most obvious harmful social effects, there remains taxation at 35 per cent. We were blamed on the Committee on Budgets, I think the opposition as a whole, that we are trapped by lobbyists, that lobbyists' tentacles circled around us, that they wrapped us up. And then I have to ask, Madam Secretary, I was a little sorry to hear that argument. Because I don't want to use the argument that it could still have been a little bit of the government and the Treasury. Because why is it taxed the most, or is the percentage increased in lottery games and odds where the danger is not so great? First of all. Experts say that this is one of the biggest mistakes made by the Ministry of Finance in the tax package. And so I don't want to argue as much as the Minister did - was there also some lobbyist tentacles? However, in RIA it is noted that the gambling segment in the form of automatons can also withstand a higher tax burden, in the form of 38 per cent, without affecting their revenues. We will therefore support the amendment tabled by Mr Dolejš and colleague Onderka, where the taxation of automata is currently increasing to 38%. If we were to admit that the Ministry of Finance would admit that the reason for the tax package, in addition to the fact that it wants to combat addiction, is also economic benefits, and I think that the government has the right, of course, to do so, I would assume that there will be taxation of that part of the gambling that has the largest market share, and that is just the automatons. Lotteries, for example, have a share of only 13 percent in the Czech Republic, for example 62 percent in the European Union, but the biggest, biggest segment that has the greatest social impacts is the one with the machines. Let me just remind you who doesn't know that the economic cost of gambling is CZK 16 billion, and the lotteries have a minimum share of it. And maybe just a note - how many poker addicts and how many are addicted to vending machines. So, of course, the number is probably known, and even if it wasn't known, it's obvious that poker addicts are minimal, whereas most of them are on vending machines. I don't think I'm gonna comment on the price of alcohol. There, I think, the consequences of the price increase can take place over the long term, as the number of those who burn black can rise, but it can already - I think Customs is in charge of it, so that's her thing as she takes care of it. And now I would continue with further arguments and end my speech by saying that the tax package is indeed an opportunity for the government to pull money out of taxpayers' pockets. One of those who cannot defend themselves, those who must go to the cadastral and would have to pay an increased fee for a deposit in the cadastral. And then, of course, he pulls money out of those who are addicted to alcohol, gambling, and cigarettes. Of course, you can argue that this is their fault, but one addict simply and well buys cigarettes, alcohol, and gambling will continue to play. Among other things, the government is pulling money out of taxpayers' pockets in the form of taxation of domestic boiler rooms. X years ago, there was such a tendency to be more gas-fired, that it was ecological. So housing houses - the owners' community started buying these boiler rooms. And suddenly during... again during the game, the rules change. So we wanted it to drown with gas, make it greener, and now we're gonna make it even more expensive. And that's wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to support our amendments. I think the arguments made here were justified. We will still be able to comment on how we will vote on individual amendments just before the vote, although it is clear that we will support the removal of apartment pots from this taxation. We will also support the proposals made by fellow pirát on winning taxation concerning poker and the like. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to hearing some of my questions. I would be incredibly interested in whether the Czech National Bank really required higher reserves and therefore it was not possible to reduce those reserves by insurance companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u11	Now I'll read the apology. Member Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes from 10.00 for family reasons until the end of the meeting day. Furthermore, with the replacement vote card number 16, Mr Skopeček and the replacement vote card number 17 shall vote Mr Klaus. Mr Patrik Nacher has now made a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, you have the floor. And Mr. Jan Hrnčíř will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I will therefore respond, and I apologise to the honourable Member, I am otherwise generally a silent Member, I am almost not visible behind the bench, but I am interested in the sentence that the Member of the previous speaker gave in defending insurance companies. I'd quite like to explain to her that she's gonna save clients in insurance companies. I wonder where the clients in the insurance companies will save up, what product and how Mrs Kovářová thought it. Because up until now, I thought insurance companies had a completely different assignment than savings. Well, if she does, I don't know if she's listening to me right now, she can explain it to me. I like to learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u13	Mrs Věra Kovářová reports on the factual point. Please, you have the floor. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Ambassador, now I know what you meant. Of course the statement about the savings wasn't right. I meant that if you have life insurance and there is no insurance event in the sense that you are disabled or otherwise, then of course, and you will live to the age when your life insurance ends, then you have some payout after the end of the life insurance that corresponds to the amount you put in there, plus the profits that insurance companies promise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u15	So now Mr Patrik Nacher will respond to the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the explanation, I expected. So you're thinking about investment life insurance. In that case, it's almost a separate seminar where we can talk about it. I don't think it's good for insurance companies to open this place because it's not one of those products where insurance companies can brag about it. For your information, what I have last data, the average duration of investment life insurance is six years, however long-term the product is designed, i.e. for decades. It means that what Mrs Kovářová described here is not really like this. Something else is risky insurance, that's how it works. But the way it works is that when there's a performance, there's a performance, when there's no performance, it's obviously the income of an insurance company. What we're talking about with investment life insurance after that is that if the client doesn't get out early, he gets the so-called. The ransom, or sales, is far from reaching what he has saved there. Google it, now there's trouble. In other words, saving myself wouldn't involve me in insurance at all. It's a bear service to insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u17	So Mrs Věra Kovářová will respond to the factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u18	You are right, Mr Member, that this would deserve a seminar, through Mr President, I would like you to take it and send out an invitation. I think it's really a big discussion. About what you were talking about, that the length is on average six years, there we would have to look into the past, I think there has been an adjustment and a tightening of the conditions, when there have often been a change in those contracts, and I think that has been adjusted. So I have to say, including my parents, I think, and my husband, that we are completely out of control of this average time because we have persisted. And what you've accused me of talking about saving, you've talked about it yourself. It was often represented as a savings account. However, it is certain that, of course, you will not get the full amount you pay because the amount you pay is part of the insurance just in case of the crisis conditions such as sickness, disability, etc. I think that's all there is to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u19	That is how Mr Patrik Nacher will react. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u20	No, then me and the lady will talk outside, we'll go out. [[to an incomprehensible remark from the diaper]] I just wanted to say that it's really more complicated than that. Even the Czech National Bank, as I recall, has banned selling this product as savings. The name is really misleading. That means it would be good to educate. Something else is risk insurance, that's what we're talking about, against death, disability, permanent consequences, and something else is investment. It's all in one here. But we'll talk later. I won't hold up. I'm happy to hold a conference on this subject, which has some tax advantage at the moment, and we're going to talk about what the state should invest in in these matters, if it's investment life insurance, virtually. taxpayers, or they're other products that I think are more meaningful when you've opened it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u21	That is how Mrs Věra Kovářová will react. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u22	Just a little while, Mr. Ambassador. I think you made that very clear. In this case, education is needed. And I think that is your concern, through Mr President, because your books are widely known.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u23	I now call for Mr Jan Hrnčíř's speech and for the preparation of Mr Václav Klaus. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to briefly comment on the 509 press. The Government's draft law amending certain tax laws in connection with the increase in public budget revenues is in the House's press No. 509, we can't support it. Because, despite the promise of this government in the program statement that it will not increase taxes, this government bill literally plunders people's wallets. On the contrary, we in the SPD want to make life cheaper for people and leave more money in their wallets. That is why we have proposed an increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer and the discounts on the spouse under the Income Tax Act. This increase will help particularly low-income working citizens in a significant way. The Ministry of Finance rejected this proposal and the coalition YES, ČSSD and KSČM kicked the budget committee off the table. It also swept away our other proposals to help active people, such as raising the amount for the exemption of occasional income, which would strengthen the financial situation of low-income families or pensioners who, through occasional sales, improve their life situation. We also proposed a reduction in income tax for small companies, as in neighbouring Slovakia. It also swept away this proposal of the coalition YES, ČSSD and KSČM on the budget committee. We therefore refuse to participate in the damage to citizens of the Czech Republic, and we will not support this act of brutally increasing taxes to all citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u25	So now I call on Mr Václav Klaus to speak... Now I've got a real one, so let's put some space on the actual one first. Mr. Ambassador, just a moment, please. And Mrs Kateřina Valachová, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u26	It will be very brief, my colleague Klaus will certainly not be delayed with his standard contribution any longer. I would just like to point out that we have a minority government - the ANO movement and social democracy, which is tolerated under certain conditions by colleagues and colleagues from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. Just to remind us how it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u27	So now I call on Mr Václav Klaus to speak and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will prepare himself. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't come here to stall. The fact that we don't support this law, I've already said, that's why I wouldn't go to the talking room. On the other hand, I honor some of the memoirs who say that every day the House does not accept the law is a holiday for the citizens. This is really true. And the second thing that taxes aren't supposed to go up is also true. So I don't mind the opposition obstruction today, or I consider it legitimate. I want to say one thing about this, namely that the Tricolore movement will not support this law, but it will support one amendment, and I think it is the G2 of Mr Veselý, trying to straighten out the ratio between odds and lottery. I really believe that exchange rate bets have already been taxed a few percentage points more than the average in the European Union, whereas the lotteries are on the other hand a little lower, and in particular it is a different product. There's a certainty of winning the organizing entity in many countries. It's a state lottery, or somewhere the state leaves it to the operator, and it's more or less taxing the whole thing to put it on culture and sport. With those odds, it may actually come down to the edge of the market, and when it falls, those people immediately go abroad, on black betting, etc., you just make something out of something again. For example, I personally like odds, I'm a mathematician, I enjoy the numbers. Don't bet those akovs out there in those villages, that's far more disadvantageous mathematically than that one game. And the vast majority of those betting people are ordinary citizens, who are more excited about watching sports results this weekend, that maybe something worked out a little bit and something didn't work out. To tax it in this way, as originally proposed by the Ministry, is, in my view, beyond the brink, and therefore we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u29	Now I'll read the apology. Mr Pavel Jelínek apologizes from today's meeting from 11 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons. So now I call on Mr Vojtěch Munzar to speak and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues, hello, Madam Secretary, hello, Minister. Thank you for the floor. I've already spoken here at the proper meeting last time, and I must say I'm a little pleased that an ANO colleague turned to me to repeat my speech here. I have to say, I've been messing with the idea for a while, but I'm not going to do it, I'm not going to evaluate the package as a whole here anymore, for example, but let me repeat a few thesissies, because I was interrupted at the defence of my VAT amendment at some point in the beginning, and I don't want to say it from the outset, so let me. Thank you. So only the basic thesis on the tax package. If we really should believe you, Madam Secretary, your arguments mean that you are making these proposals mainly in order to limit any negative behavior associated with, for example, gambling, tobacco or alcohol, then you should have submitted a tax-neutral solution, thereby fulfilling the government's own programming statement. And you had de facto many ways of ensuring tax neutrality. You could have adequately reduced other taxes. You could focus, for example, on income taxes or, for example, on the taxation of work that we have one of the highest in Europe, you could reduce some property taxes, you could reduce percentage rates, or you could focus on a discount on the taxpayer. Indeed, the possibilities, the fan of possibilities, were very long indeed. They're de facto unaccounted for. And if you weren't sure for yourself, Madam Secretary, what is most appropriate, about 50 amendments today are tabled to the tax package, when most of them focus on reducing other taxes, and many of them offered you tax neutrality by simple calculations. All you had to do was choose the fans that the opposition is offering you to choose the ones that would suit you. But the result - any tax cuts have been rejected. As regards fiscal neutrality and the promise not to raise taxes in the programming declaration, in this case, the opposition paradoxically follows the government's programming statement more than the government coalition itself. But since you didn't do anything about it, you didn't offer any tax neutrality, so your arguments about the tax package can't really be taken seriously, and there's only one of them - raising taxes. I must say that most of the proposals we have put forward have been marked on the Committee on Budgets by the date that they are proposals, the so-called wild riders. I must say that, therefore, to collect the tax proposals that you have submitted in the tax package from Aš de facto to Tatras, perhaps today you could say from Aš to Beskydů, from the fees for an increased proposal for a deposit to excise taxes, taxing insurance reserves into one boiler, and making it such a goulash tax increase, that is not really a conceptual and systemic approach. Plus, you put this proposal at the very last minute. I said here last time that you resigned to a real fiscal policy, to the effects of government action on the economy, to the secondary impacts on the economy of your proposals. For example, if you reduce some taxes, this will positively reflect on private consumption and investment, and thus positively on the growth of income from indirect taxes. Indeed, you only approach the state budget from an accounting point of view, and from the point of view it is to give-a-dal and you have narrowed fiscal policy to just one question - how much more money will you squeeze out of people. At the same time, you're building a budget that we were discussing two days ago on unapproved income. I don't think that's a competent approach to the state budget. If you still have something unapproved, a proper farmer cannot build on it the most important law of the Czech Republic for 2020, and that is the state budget. It is very convenient in our discussion that, for example, in our proposal to abolish property acquisition tax, you require a tax-neutral solution directly, and you call our proposal budgetaryly irresponsible, but you forget tax neutrality when increasing taxes. So you only use the tax neutrality argument if someone wants to lower taxes, but this argument doesn't apply to you in raising taxes at once. And I have to say, with this tax package, you claim to be such a spy - the resources are and lie in taxpayers' pockets. I'm sure I'll get to the real estate tax in some other performance, maybe today, maybe Wednesday, or maybe November, we'll see in the very defense of my next proposal. Today I want to defend my proposal to increase the limit for mandatory VAT registration. As I was saying, I was interrupted during my performance, so I would like to repeat some of the thesis. But by the time I get to it, I might want to explain here why our performances have been so detailed lately. Because, unfortunately, there has been no debate with the Minister here at plenary lately. The Minister always lets the general debate take place, then he will speak at the end of the debate, where he merely glots the speech of us, the other Members, and we who do not have the right to speak, no longer have the right to speak. That is why we must design our speeches in such a way that we can respond in advance to what we think the Minister might say. And since there are really many of these options, we prefer to explain in detail all the reasons and respond to the potential glossy of the Minister. Madam Secretary is smiling about it, but look at the budget meeting yesterday. The Minister allowed the debate to take place, spoke again after the discussion, at the end, with the words - I quote: "I sat here in a corner today and listened. " But your role, Madam Secretary, is not sitting in a corner. It is good that you listen to us, but you should discuss it with the Members. And I'm very sorry that you don't de facto do that. I think this has been a sad shift since last year, when you actually discussed with us, it has often been hard discussions, but from my point of view, it has been fair and fair, from which, in the end, several good proposals came out, on which we finally agreed, such as an increase in the limit for the application of tax spending flats for businessmen. And I am very sorry for this shift and the change in tactics from a debate on glossing. If you were discussing with us and not just glossing, perhaps we would not have to deal with every aspect of our proposals in such detail. Unfortunately, in this tactic, I feel such an aftertaste in the Chamber of Deputies, and we can also see it on your tweet, which you published after our last meeting and which you have communicated to the public how much it costs for the Chamber of Deputies' meeting day. And I must say that I personally mind this tweet far more than quoting some offensive emails, because this tweet only attacks low instincts, some people's anger, and only strengthens distrust of democracy. And I also see a certain aftertaste in the Chamber of Deputies, and I, Madam Secretary, am very sorry. I want to stress that the Government, and therefore you too, are responsible from the Constitution for your work to the Chamber of Deputies, not the other way around. I understand that this may work differently with the Coalition Members; they are responsible for their decisions here to the Minister, but, fortunately, this does not apply to the whole of the Chamber of Deputies. And we, Madam Secretary, also do not count how much the days and hours of the Chamber of Deputies have cost you an unconstitutional proposal to tax church restitution. Although many of you knew it was unconstitutional, many of you lightly raised your hand for it, because we relied on how the Constitutional Court would decide and that the Constitutional Court would drop it. [[10.20 hours]] If we begin with the arguments you have made to the Chamber of Deputies, Madam Secretary, then such a battle will not have democratic winners. Only extremist sentiments in society will be strengthened. And my request to you, Madam Secretary, even if you are not satisfied with the outcome or course of the House's negotiations is that you actually discuss with us and not give similar tweets that attack the Chamber of Deputies. This is what I needed to say for a very brief introduction, and I am now finally coming to my amendment to increase the limit for voluntary VAT registration. I was interrupted last time. And starting only where I left off, then my performance wouldn't make any sense to you. Therefore, allow me to repeat a few thesissies from my speech, which I will add to other arguments. I was talking last time about the fact that the increasing bureaucratic and administrative burden in business is what particularly discourages people from doing business. And these are the very active people who are filling the state budget on the income side, without them, the entire state finances would collapse like a house of cards. Yet the state is throwing them under their feet and bureaucracy in business is constantly growing, and thanks to this increasing bureaucracy and administrative burden, time and financial costs for entrepreneurs are increasing. The tax administration is then the highest carrier of this bureaucratic burden. The Czech tax system is one of the most complex in the European Union. I noticed when I watched what the secretary said publicly that she tweeted some comparisons from the American company Tax Foundation. She even said that this company evaluated positively low income taxation and clear labour taxation in the Czech Republic. This tweet was even referred to by the Prime Minister on social networks. It is a škoda, Madam Secretary, that you also do not tweet professionally recognized international studies, which unfortunately the positive image of the Czech tax system does not see so positively. And in order not to be mistaken, I'm going to repeat the results of some of these professional studies. In a study by BDO and universities from German Paderborn and Munich, the Czech Republic occupied the 80th, 85th place of 143 analyzed countries in global comparison. Italy, Greece and Croatia have had worse results within the European Union. According to another study, which is internationally recognised, the World Bank Doing Business study in 2019, the Czech Republic occupied up to 40th place in the tax payment indicator, where when I refer to VAT, for which I want to change the parameters of compulsory registration, the taxpayer must spend 102 hours per year to fulfil his tax obligations in relation to VAT. For social security, it takes 75 hours a year, for income tax 53 hours a year. According to a study by PricewaterhouseCoopers in 2017, the time needed to fulfil tax obligations in the Czech Republic was the seventh highest within the European 28th. Overall, the average time load in the Czech Republic was calculated at 230 hours, which is almost 58 hours more than the average load of the European 28. And why are we proposing to increase the limit for voluntary VAT registration from one to two million crowns? Because VAT registration is a significant leap in the administrative obligations of the entrepreneur. This is precisely the moment when it exceeds the turnover for compulsory VAT registration and it has been the same for 15 years at the level of one million crowns. At this point, there begins the need for the taxpayer to keep tax records of payments received and issued from payers and VAT payers, must de facto lead to almost new control reports. The original effort was to offer the smallest people the opportunity to do business without the VAT registration requirement precisely so that the smallest ones would not be burdened by the tax administration. And over the past 15 years, when the border didn't move, there was an increase in price levels, inflation, and this has made the turnover go beyond the original intention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u31	I'm gonna ask you to calm down. The Member wishes me to settle the peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u32	I must stress that we are not talking about profit, but we are talking about turnover. With inflation, entrepreneurs may gain more in sales, but at the same time their costs are constantly rising, and all of this shifts their turnover to the limit of one million crowns, and the one million crowns today have a different de facto value than they did 15 years ago when it was set. And Madam Secretary, imagine a construction businessman who still has the same amount of orders, but every year spends more money on costs, materials, petrol, etc. His expenses are growing, and he has to increase the price of his services because of that, so he's also growing income. And that's why it's pushing him to make that one million crowns. [[Over?]] But over the past 15 years, it has not only happened that, due to the inflation of more businessmen, it is overcoming the limit of one million, but also that under the VAT scheme itself, there has been an increase in the administrative burden and costs associated with the fulfilment of administrative obligations towards the State. So what really means to an entrepreneur is such a VAT registration. The current wording of the Act defines the turnover limit for compulsory registration to one million in the last 12 months, which may lead, by the way, to paradoxical situations where an entrepreneur in an attempt, for example, to clear his company from commitments or to implement restructuring, sells part of the company or reduces stocks of material in stock to obtain better cash flow, thereby exceeding the fixed limit in the short term. This immediately falls under the VAT regime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u33	Once again, the Member asks me to set things straight so that he can concentrate on his performance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u34	The person required to register will thus automatically become a payer in the monthly tax period for at least three years. It is only after this period that it may request a transition to a quarterly tax period, provided that its turnover does not exceed CZK 10 million. Of course, the monthly deadline is far more demanding administratively and costly than the quarter. I, Madam Secretary, will give you an example of a company which is engaged in construction assembly, which exceeded its turnover due, for example, to one single contract, because, as a sub-contractor for the reconstruction of the heating system of the apartment building, it exceeded the turnover of 700 thousand and, thanks to one contract, it skipped one million and it meant the obligation to register for VAT. Unfortunately, the compulsory registration of VAT had to make its services more expensive, and thus, paradoxically, it lost part of its contracts in the future because it became uncompetitive in this case. Registration for VAT also brings increased costs for companies. A company that becomes a payer must keep a tax record as well as a non-repayer, but, in the case of a payer, it must keep that record regularly every month, which in most cases entails either employing or hiring an accountant or an accounting firm on the basis of a contract. When I turned to accounting firms, the cost, just so you know, colleagues, for such a company that exceeds, even by ten crowns, the turnover of one million, means about CZK 20,000 for tax records per year, to keep tax records, every item, every month of inspection reports, etc. I would like to point out that the mandatory registration with you... Sorry, I might have misjudged, CZK 20,000 a year. I'm sorry. [[10.30 hours]] I would like to point out that the mandatory registration entails potential restrictions by the State, a higher frequency of checks, a higher risk of unintentional error in the submission of the deadline and a fine resulting from the inspection report. Because, yes, there was a checkup a few years ago. This was a dramatic increase in the administrative burden for VAT payers. Because the inspection reports didn't just come as an aid to the state, but as an instrument of control with gallows deadlines and fines accompanying non-compliance with the inspection report. And all of this fits in with the concert that the Ministry of Finance, under the leadership of the ANO movement, has been creating over the long term. Entrepreneurs want to de facto make such bureaucratic robots, where any action next door is immediately punished. These steps create an atmosphere of intolerance against minor administrative errors. Let's take a look at the time of the inspection report. Twenty-five days after the end of the calendar month for a legal person and within the time limit for filing a tax return for a natural person. And the deadline cannot be extended. And now it starts. Five days. Only five days for subsequent inspection reports if the payer finds, after the deadline for submitting the inspection report, that he has provided incorrect or incomplete data in this inspection report. Five days. Only five days to submit a replacement inspection report if the taxpayer is invited by the Financial Authority. Five days. Just five days to serve... to amend or supplement or confirm, where appropriate, data on the basic challenges of the Financial Authority. And five working days, just five days - now don't imagine a big company, what it means to her, a large holding with a large accounting department, there is not such a problem, but imagine a small businessman in the construction sector, which slightly exceeds the limit of one million crowns. Imagine that it works on itself and has the only external accountant where there is no representativeness. And imagine that such a businessman will run out of the financial authority's call to confirm or correct the data in the inspection report within five working days. Now imagine that the businessman is sick and the accountant is on vacation, or they're both on vacation, or they're both sick. Don't you find that five-day deadline for the smallest really gallows? I am talking about this on purpose because I am also asking you to support my next amendment, which I propose to amend this short period of five days, five working days, to 15 working days. A pity on the side of the state wouldn't have happened. The state would collect its taxes. It would only help many businessmen from unnecessary, often stressful situations and create a more friendly business environment. We would need to create a friendly business environment in our country, because so far the last few years have been a rather hostile, intolerant business environment, and the strictness of state power has increased. And it's obvious, and it's documented by the fines that are about the state's inspection report, which says, "Dear businessman, you've remembered yourself, and you've filed an additional check report without a call?" Fine of a thousand crowns pursuant to § 101h para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Value Added Tax Act. But we're good to you. It's only a thousand crowns. Have you forgotten, we had to challenge you? Fine of 10 thousand crowns according to § 101h para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b). You have not filed a 30 thousand fine in accordance with § 101 h para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the law. You didn't file a check report within the time limit? Fine of 50 thousand according to § 101h para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d). You've filed a check report, but you haven't corrected or changed the data we have doubts about? Fine up to CZK 50,000 pursuant to § 101h para. 2. And we're still such nice and friendly Financial Administration. God forbid we should have a bad night's sleep and start thinking about you, dear businessman, that you're wasting your time in tax management. That would be a fine of up to 500,000 crowns. Up to half a million according to § 101h para. 3. This is the atmosphere you have created in the business environment. When I personally proposed a reduction in some of these fines in past tax packages as well as in the discussion of the EET, you rejected my proposals recently. I wanted to show you, ladies and gentlemen, what businessmen are actually falling into if they exceed the turnover for compulsory VAT registration. And as I've told you before, there are more and more of them because of inflation. According to data from the tax entities register Financial administrations have grown since 2004 in order to achieve a turnover of 1 million out of 42 971 to 115 673. This is more than a 2,5-fold increase in the number of such tax entities justified by the amount of turnover over the period of validity of the current amount of its limit. Those are the reasons, some of the reasons we're proposing to raise the threshold, the limit for mandatory VAT registration, to $2 million. The aim of our amendment is to reduce bureaucracy, which makes business in the Czech Republic difficult and also to reduce the costs of entrepreneurs. We will help entrepreneurs not only save their own money, which they have to pay for, for example. to my accountants. We will save them the nerves associated with extremely short periods and brutal fines resulting from the duty to check reports. And especially by doing so, we'll save their time and their nerves. We believe that by adopting this amendment, the Government can live up to its own declarations in the programming declaration when it promises - I quote - that "the government will take further steps to minimise the administrative burden on entrepreneurs." And I have to say that I may be sorry that the Ministry of Finance is always taking a more formal approach to our proposals and not discussing the substance of the matter, but rather discussing some legislative and formal obstacles, such as in this case, when it argued by the European Union. I must emphasise here that the increase in the VAT limit is in line with the EU's objectives for small enterprises, as the Commission Communication also states to Green Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, in which it calls on Member States to take into account the specific conditions of small and medium-sized enterprises when creating legislation and to simplify the existing regulatory environment. Despite this, the Ministry of Finance insists on disagreeing with this amendment. It is very surprising for me, I must say, because, on the one hand, the Ministry insists on maintaining the limit of CZK 1 million, and thus wants as many entrepreneurs as possible to be in the VAT regime. On the other hand, it creates problems and complicates life for those entrepreneurs who want to become voluntarily VAT payers. And we have reports from many entrepreneurs, from many branches of business from different places of the Republic, that voluntary registration Financial administration significantly complicates and blocks. It often makes senseless demands for applicants and throws sticks at them. Just a few years ago, it was basically a formal request and formal approval, and the situation has changed a lot lately. The financial authorities consistently require evidence of existing economic activity and other detailed information beyond mandatory registration data. In addition to this communication, the tax authorities often demand the applicant's business partners. In addition, we have reports that the requirements are not standardised, so in practice every financial authority requires something different. The businessman does not have much chance of defending this procedure. The entire registration process for voluntary VAT registration is designed to make an entrepreneur a potential criminal first, only after his lengthy proof that his intention is really clean and that he wants to do business in accordance with the law will clear him. It is often so that the tax office will request something, the entrepreneur will do it, and then the tax office will remember that it should ask for more and more documents. [[10.40 hours]] It also complicates, Madam Secretary, that the taxpayers do not understand why the tax office requires detailed information from them. The financial authorities do not explain, simply demand, so the taxpayers do not know what the information required is for and how the Financial Administration will deal with it. You can see that this is a very unreasonable approach. I do not understand the Ministry of Finance, so if it wants as many entrepreneurs as possible to be registered in VAT, why it complicates life for those who want to become voluntary VAT payers. If he doesn't want to, then why is he blocking the increase in registration, respectively. an increase in that limit? We will address this issue on the subcommittee on the business environment next week, the very voluntary registration. That's for your information. The Ministry of Finance gives two reasons for its disagreement. I have already partially discussed the first one, but I will tell you the basic contours, because I am very sorry that the main argument of the Ministry of Finance is disagreement because of European Union legislation and common European regulation, because from my point of view this argument is pure alibism. In fact, there is a real chance of negotiating a different line than the Czech Republic has today. There are several precedents. I was setting an example of Slovakia here last time. I will no longer read the individual references to paragraphs and the like, but I would like to tell you that the European Council's decisions show guidance on how to proceed, which shows the possibility for Member States to negotiate a VAT registration threshold of up to 100 thousand. Our $2 million proposal will fit richly. In the same way, we have proposed to shift efficiency by six months so that the Ministry of Finance has sufficient time to process and send and negotiate applications in the European institutions. The process of approval of Slovakia lasted five months, so half a year's delay in efficiency is sufficient from our point of view. I must point out that I have already said that the European Union itself considers the application of the increased VAT exemption threshold to be an appropriate measure to simplify the VAT system for small enterprises on the grounds that the exemption of these undertakings from the many VAT-related obligations under the current scheme would result in a significant reduction in the burden on undertakings eligible for this scheme. Therefore, we should discuss this proposal in substance, and there should be relevant arguments here for its rejection by the Ministry of Finance. There is no doubt that this proposal has many positives. As I said last time here, the Ministry of Finance's arguments show that whoever wants to look for ways and whoever doesn't want to look for reasons. From my point of view, it is only a matter of our will, our taste and our negotiating abilities, virtually. the negotiating capabilities of our representatives. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, that the Treasury didn't show that taste and will. I would very much like to hear the relevant arguments as to why the Ministry of Finance does not really want this. The argument remains second to which the Ministry of Finance argues, and that is the impact on the state budget. And he's not tall. Compared to the high positive impact on the business environment, the impact argument in the state budget cannot withstand. I will no longer describe here as the last calculation methods, but our calculations and calculations of the Ministry of Finance intersect somewhere in the range of conservative 3.5 to 5 billion. directly into the state budget. I'm saying it's conservative at the top. In fact, it would be even less, ladies and gentlemen, because many of the existing payers would remain voluntarily in VAT mode when they already have their business set up, their business. Our proposal is aimed rather at those tradesmen who are approaching the limit of 1 mile. The Czech koruna and inflation will soon overcome it, so the impact on the state budget can be even smaller than the billions mentioned. Anyway, it is in the amount of CZK 1 billion, which we are moving somewhere at 0.2 % to 0.3 % of the total revenue of the state budget. The revenue of the state budget is projected to rise by 113 billion year on year. If I did not count - to be fair - the revenue from European funds, it is somewhere at the limit of 95 billion, which is many times more than the direct impact of our proposal on the state budget. Why do I say direct? Indeed, the Ministry of Finance ignores the overall fiscal effects on the economy and the multiplier effects and the secondary positive effects on state budget revenues. This is a typical example. The money from the economy is not going anywhere, but entrepreneurs will use it in private consumption, in private investment for the development of their business. And it can be assumed that in the medium term, these funds will be returned to the state budget in other taxes and other payments, because entrepreneurs will not sew up the money in pillows at home, but will buy and invest more. I reckon, in the medium term, you can conservatively estimate the return of one third of this money to other taxes. So measure the price, ladies and gentlemen, which will cost the state budget in the short term, with a positive effect on reducing bureaucracy, developing business, developing private consumption and investment, and many more stable foundations for their business. It will help the smallest entrepreneurs, and it will help the economy in general. Our proposal to increase the limit for voluntary registration of VAT from CZK 1 to CZK 2 million clearly leads to a reduction in bureaucracy and associated business costs, and I stress that at a very low price for public finances. Together, we have the opportunity to meet one of the priorities of the government, which is actually covered by all parties in the House. That is why I am asking you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u35	I thank the honourable Member for his speech. We have two factual points ahead, first Mr Jiří Bláha and then Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. Mr Jiří Bláha's point of view now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond to one thing. We're talking about a million crowns of business or business turnover here, but we have to realize that it's some 83,000 a month and mostly 6,944 crowns a day. If you think about this amount, you'll find that we need a minimum of invoices for this turnover, a minimum of what you have to prove to the Financial Authority. I can certainly agree with the Member that we have to reduce bureaucracy, because bureaucracy is crazy for entrepreneurs, especially for small ones, but at that point, let us focus on matters related to work safety, environment, fire protection, employment policy, revisions, subsidies, but perhaps one of the things that will take far more than billing solutions is the book of rides. You have to do that every day. This means that if a businessman is going somewhere, he's going to his business, so he has to write down every mile he's done what he was doing, why was he there, because when he gets checked out, he can ask, "Why did you go to Přerov when you're from Liberec?". The moment you can't prove it, they'll cross it out and bye. So, for me, a far more complex matter than whether I have to do a check report or not to do a check report is that I have to record some sort of travel book, because really, in turning 1 million, the invoices and stuff around the entry are hugely low. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for keeping time with my colleague Bláh. He also made a point of fact, of course, of his colleagues Munzar and Stanjura. Now a colleague of Mr Kohoutek with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. Good morning, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, colleagues. Today is October 25th. All entrepreneurs know what this means - the date of submission of the inspection report and the date of filing of the tax return, i.e. the inspection report. I don't see Mr. Munzar now, yes, he's here. Through the President, Mr Munzar, do you know what this is? Do you all know what this is? [[He's pointing.]] That's my quarter check. And, Mr Munzar, through Mr President, I make a little bit more turnover than 80 grand a month. So stop with the demagogy that the control report is some huge burden for ordinary businessmen or businessmen. [[10.50 hours]] Every VAT payer, I assume he has an accountant, and every accountant can make a check report within his software program in connection with the fact that he is preparing tax returns on VAT taxes for that entrepreneur. So, in my opinion, a control report is a thing that works perfectly, and I really don't think it's such a big deal for those common and small entrepreneurs to do that check report. Not to mention, as my colleague Bláha said, if a small, small businessman is one who has a million crowns a year, it is about 80 to 90 thousand a month. That check report is made on over 10,000 payments. How much is this businessman gonna make for the quarter payments? They're units of pieces. So really control reports really aren't such a big deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u39	I thank Mr Kohoutek and we are now continuing with Mr Vojtěch Munzar's factual remark, then Mr Stanjura and Mr Kobza. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u40	Thank you. It surprises me - I have been measuring regimes here when someone is not paying VAT and how his administration will grow. And he'll grow, you can't talk me out of it, you can't talk businessmen out of it, either, that whoever falls into the VAT regime will grow into tax administration, no matter what, my colleague, that I understand that this may not be such a problem for you, but for some businessman who works in construction, he's not accustomed to paperwork like someone in the office, so it can really be a problem for him. And because of these people, I was talking about it because we're talking about it -- you guys are listing sums here -- but we're talking about turnover, we're not talking about profit. So to speak correctly, we're talking about turnover. And indeed for those people by increasing their cost of purchasing material, by having to increase prices, to cost purchase material, to transport etc., that they must increase them, so that they automatically grow turnover and thus automatically fall under the VAT regime. So if your proposal or your position is that as many entrepreneurs as possible be in the VAT regime, then please let the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance say it in their remarks and not hide in those arguments behind the European Union. But let's have some real business. Thank you for the remark, I have a different opinion than you do. I do not think that we really need to force the smallest ones to be in the VAT regime, and we should move this line. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u41	Well, thank you for keeping the time to make a point. Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, also with a factual remark. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u42	Thank you, I will respond to the two speeches that have been made. First, Mr. Mr. Bláha. So when we're talking about small businessmen, they, if they have a maximum of three vehicles - we're talking about small, three tops - and they decide to pay off the fare on the passenger car, you know that, so they don't have to keep any book of rides. A small businessman who's got 15 cars to run a business doesn't look like a whole lot of change to me. But I agree, suggest - you've had the Ministry of Finance for six years - propose to cancel this stupid duty, and we will definitely support it. I totally agree. A member of the ANO movement - now I'm sorry, I lost my name - he says... Not Kohoutek I didn't know him, but now I wasn't sure who was performing. So he says, "What's the argument that the little ones have administration?" I'm much bigger than that, and I don't have a problem with that. Well, then you denied being a small businessman. And that's what the administration is. If you accidentally export something, look what else you have to fill out after individual customers. For example, only in Slovakia, I live close to the Slovak Republic, many of our small entrepreneurs provide services or goods in Poland and according to the individual IČO it must count and state that they exported for CZK 1,120 for IČO XY in Slovakia and for CZK 1,300 for other IČO. Speaking of the $10,000 limit, it's completely illogical, including the tax, because you usually give the base and 10,000. [[unintelligible]] Plus, it's not fixed by law, it's just a decree from the Treasury Department. If we wanted to help small businessmen, we could raise that amount to $50,000 without tax. Don't tell me that carousel scams are done in small businesses with 10,000 invoices, including VAT. So let's talk about the real impact on small businessmen. Convince the Treasury Secretary to raise the mandatory limit with his decree, and then you'll be right that the invoices will be very few or maybe none of those small and small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u43	Mr President, the time for a point of fact has come to an end. Now, Mr Jiří Kobza's factual remark, then Mr Jiří Bláha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Everyone here is talking about small businessmen, so let me say my thing as a small businessman. The fact is that control reports for small companies really are a great burden. The fact of the matter is that our colleague wrote something in the wrong box and we were fined at the rate of monthly turnover. And basically, all those who cover themselves with small businessmen around here, so I doubt they know what it means to be a small businessman. This means that you have to be a Renaissance person, you have to control everything, you have to control the craft, you have to control marketing, you have to control fire regulations, building regulations, traffic regulations, you have to control all accounting, constantly follow the new decrees that spew on you Financial Administration, Ministry of Finance etc. And you have to do it all on the smallest possible team, because as a small businessman, you do it in two, in three, in four people. So please, nicely, I would appeal to you to actually, when you're talking about a small business, think about what it really means. And I have to say that all the steps that have been taken so far have certainly not been aimed at making small entrepreneurs live better, on the contrary, so that, as far as possible, these entrepreneurs will shut it down and go to work for support. Because the real support for small business would be to make a flat-rate tax for small businessmen at a reasonable rate, not 7,000 a month, or how much I've seen the proposal, but I don't know, 10, 20 grand a year, and that should put an end to the administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, and your time for a point of fact has come to an end, Mr. Ambassador. [[Member Kobza: Thank you for your warning, Mr President, thank you.]] Now, Mr Jiří Bláha's point of fact, and perhaps we will continue with the speech by fellow Ferjenčík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond once more because we are talking about things that are essential. If I'm a small businessman, you can write that out of 99 percent, if I want to keep a limit of one million, I'm not buying any material over me in any way. All these little businessmen do it: buy your stuff, I'll do it to you, because at that point, it wouldn't fit into a million. Just take - do you think an entrepreneur will do business so that he has less than normal employment? In a normal job, today's salary is 25,000 net, which is some 50,000 gross. We're already at the turnover level of the businessman in a month that's going to do within one million. So no businessman has any problems with the fact that the material gets expensive, that he gets up, that he goes from one line to another, because he does it clearly -- buy the material, I'll tell you where, and I'll do the job for you. That's how it works in that business up to one million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before we continue with Mr Ferjenčík's speech, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. She apologizes from 9:00 to 9:30 because of the visit of Dr. Markéta Adamová. Furthermore, Mr Vlastimil Válek's apology from 10:30 to 14:00 for work reasons, and Dominik Feri apologizes for the whole day for working reasons. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, a colleague of Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will briefly comment on the debate on small business that has taken place here in the context of factual remarks. There I would like to point out that I wish that entrepreneurs who have no employees would not need an accountant. I think that this should be the effort of our tax administration, our state, to ensure that a person who does not have an employee does not really need an accountant, even if he is a VAT payer. So I take it that Mr. Kohoutek's argument is that he feels that everyone has an accountant, so it doesn't bother them, but I disagree. I think the state should allow it to do business without an accountant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u49	I will cut you off and ask the House for peace! If you're discussing things other than the 509, please be in the foyer. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u50	Thank you, Mr President. So that's one thing. The second thing is that I very much support this proposal by Mr Munzar to raise the limit. In general, there is a problem of fixed amounts in the laws, which then lose interest in inflation, so we just have a million that already weighs, like, 700 thousand from the time it was introduced, and 15 years of continuous decline in the space of the smallest entrepreneurs to make a reasonable living and stay in a non-bureocratic regime without VAT. I think it's very reasonable to raise it again. I believe that we could negotiate this in the European Union if the government really tried to do so. So much for this debate. And now, more generally, to the House's press, 509. I'm not going to stay here, but given that citizens are watching this hearing, I'm just going to briefly summarize the pirát' position on this proposal. Pirates believe that the taxation of work in the Czech Republic is extremely high, and therefore, if the government increases taxes, primarily excise taxes, with which we should not have a priori problem in terms of cigarettes and alcohol, it should take advantage of this opportunity, when the revenues of the state budget increase one time, to reduce labour taxation again. Just give the people the taxes you collect now. Besides, it doesn't even make sense when the Ministry of Health argues that it's about health, it's about dissuading people from buying the hard alcohol, etc., so in that case it's logical to let people buy the products of unloaded excise duty just by reducing their labor tax. We designed two options. Increase the discount on the taxpayer by CZK 5,000 and increase the discount on the taxpayer by CZK 2,000. I think both of these proposals are very constructive. It is also a proposal that could please social democracy and KSČM, because the least income employees benefit the most from it. And it is precisely the increase in the taxpayer's discount that has exactly the same logic as the increase in excise duties. The significance of the time discount is falling due to inflation, so let's increase it. If this is true of excise duty, why is this not true of the basic discount on the taxpayer? Unfortunately, the YES movement simply wants to keep the money in the state budget and not return it to people, even though the collection of personal income tax grows by tens of billions of crowns each year. Therefore, I focus on the material problems of the various parts of the proposal. Probably the most eye-beating is the method of taxing insurance reserves, where the government is going to tax insurance companies as well as insurance reserves, which the insurance companies are ordered to hold the Czech National Bank. It just seems absurd for the Czech National Bank to make insurance companies hold reserves at a certain amount, there is even some minimum within the European Union, which is not enough for the Czech National Bank, and for the Ministry of Finance to come forward and say: the reserves are too large, we must tax you. That logic just seems totally crazy to me. ANO colleagues often argue that insurance companies are completely unique in that no one else has technical reserves taxed in this way or virtually. Untaxed, however, it must be said that insurance companies are unique in this way of business. They're working with the risk right now, and those reserves are for those insurance events. So compared to the factories, as my colleague Juříček likes to do through the President, I find it very unfortunate. That's one big problem. We have a big problem with how gambling taxation is taken, where everything increases except the most harmful type of gambling. That means, the government keeps the slot machines, it increases everything else, it gets on our heads again. We do not agree to increase the fees for deposit in the land register, we do not agree with the price of heating in apartments, in apartment houses, if you have a gas boiler room within the Esvéječka. It's already been announced that it will change, at least some shift of the side towards it. We believe that our amendments will go through, which will improve the conditions of poker players so that they can play poker under the same conditions as other European Union citizens, as well as home-cooked beer. It's more like little things. Since the government is not going to support our proposals to reduce labour taxation, we will certainly not support the law as a whole. So much for the pirát for this proposal. I think we all know in the hall that the press is not going to be able to discuss today, and at the same time, unfortunately, this press is blocking the discussion of a fundamental standard - an increase in parental contribution. Since it's not going to happen today, I suggest we interrupt this meeting until the end of the 35th meeting, and so that we can get back to the proper meeting and get to the increase in parental allowance. I appeal, above all, to my colleagues on the left to support this proposal, because I think it is unnecessary for us to spend three hours here by saying rational arguments against this press, and we will not be able to do anything. I think it would be a good idea to have a parent with a consensus throughout the House, and then we can go back to the tax package, which is also on the agenda for the proper meeting. So please support this proposal. I ask for support for the predictability of laws for parents on parental leave and for those who are preparing for it, and above all, I appeal to colleagues on the left not to tie these two prints together. The basic argument is - taxing work will bring about CZK 20 billion extra budget next year. If you're not going to cut it down, at least pay the parent's salary and you don't have to raise taxes for it. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u51	He was a colleague of Ferjenčík's with the opinion of the Pirate Club. He made a procedural motion to suspend this meeting. I take it you are acting on behalf of the President of the Club of Deputies under the Rules of Procedure. Yes? [[Yes.]] As much as I don't have it in writing, I trust you. I checked you out, I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. About the motion to interrupt this meeting, if I understand correctly, until this item is discussed at the 35th meeting. Yes? [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Until the end of the 35th meeting. Okay. That's what we're gonna decide in the number three vote I started, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 3 of the 160 present was 73, against 77. The motion was denied. We will continue, with a factual remark from Minister Zaorálek. But I don't see him, so his application is failing. We continue with the speech submitted by Mr Jan Skopeček. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador. Once again, before you start talking, I will ask for peace, and any debates on a subject other than the press 509, in principle in the foyer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u52	Thank you very much. I'll let the colleagues who came to the vote leave. I am a benevolence myself, and I will use the absence of Madam Secretary to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u53	I'll cut you off, Mr. Ambassador. I am given that there has been no sanitary break and the Minister has been here since the beginning, so at her request I granted her. I think it's solid. I don't think it's entirely an obligation for her to be here, but there are other ministers, her presence here has been permanent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u54	I certainly do, and I'm not questioning it either, and I'm saying in advance that I'm a benevolence alone. And when our colleagues accuse us of obstruction, if I were to use it, at this point, we are not acting and waiting for the Minister. But because, as I say, I'm a benevolence myself, I don't mind and I respect that, and I'm happy to perform, even if the secretary doesn't hear it. After all, there may be an opportunity to repeat it to her sometime when she sits here at the voting table. Thank you for the floor. I would also like to say my opinion on the package itself, but also on the amendments that I am making. However, I must begin by resisting rhetoric, by obstructing. We here - Mr President, I can only ask, it is difficult to speak, there is a noise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u55	Let's do it again!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u56	Thank you very much. It's better now. I'd like to retreat because we'd be doing any obstruction here as an ODS. If I count correctly, we've been talking about a tax package for about two hours since this morning. At the previous hearing, it was 70 minutes, and we have already been accused of building a government coalition, with a number of our own opposition proposals in the Chamber of Deputies lying here for more than a year without getting into this meeting. And these are, of course, things that are important to the citizens of the Czech Republic, because they are proposals to reduce taxes, simplify the tax system and, thanks to the government coalition that surrounds opposition proposals, we have not yet got there. And by the time we have a tax package to which the Minister is in a hurry, after hours and tens of minutes of argument, the opposition is being accused of obstruction. I'm very much against it. The reason you use this rhetoric is clear. You want to overshadow and beat the incompetence and incompetence of Secretary Schillerová and her Ministry of Finance. Because how else can we evaluate the state where we approved the basic figures a few days ago, the basic balance of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, one of the most important laws at all, which counts on the revenue that is also due from taxes, which the Minister proposes to increase in this package, which we are discussing a few days after we have already approved the budget? I think this is not good news about the quality of the work of the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. I think that the right, responsible, competent finance minister would first come up with the legislation he needs to be able to establish the state budget faithfully, responsibly. The Minister would have arrived on time with this package so that he could be subjected to a standard democratic parliamentary debate. So that it can be discussed, so that all amendments made to this law can be considered. We would deal with them here in the normal time frame and then the Minister would know what additional tax revenues he can expect in the state budget, which he cannot, and accordingly would prepare the state budget. We're in the opposite situation. The Minister will draw up a budget based on virtual numbers, unapproved legislation, prepare here and present a budget that simply does not correspond to reality, and then try quickly and very quickly to approve additional legislation that is necessary to at least make the budget work in basic elementary figures. If this isn't a demonstration of the incompetence and incompetence of the Treasury Secretary, I don't know what. I think that the state budget is an important law that it is to be discussed as it was written, so it is to end, and not that legislation is to be passed at the last moment, from which the state budget approved is already based. We've been talking here long and discussing the budget. I identified him because of the deficit and because of his poor structure as a scumbag. But what's going on with the tax package is simply a sklendrian. It is slendrian that a few days after we approve the budget, we approve taxes, tax legislation, and increased taxes to fill this already approved budget. As far as the opposition is concerned, I think it is our holy right against this package to perform hours here, because my colleagues and I in the right part of the political spectrum have been elected voters who do not want high taxes that do not want a complex tax system. The fact that you've been voted by voters who get their pockets pulled out of more and more taxes is your holy right to meet them, to increase their taxes, to complicate their tax system further. But we have different voters. We have voters who think that taxes are already on record and that they should not continue to increase. We have voters who vote for us to simplify the tax system and reduce taxes. And we are not going to defend these voters for five minutes to do some formal rhetorical exercise at the counter, but we are going to defend our voters and their money, not to say that until the body is torn apart, but I will say that we will defend as much as possible in order to prevent this legislation from convincing you with factual arguments that the amount of the tax burden is indeed at record level and that there is no point in raising the tax further. We are doing this with the hope that we will convince your voters who, for example, fell for the YES movement on his promises not to raise taxes. Remember the rhetoric of Prime Minister Babiš. Remember the rhetoric of the Minister of Finance, for example, when approving electronic sales records. At the time, they argued and threatened you and the other Members that you had to approve the EET because if you did not approve the EET, it would be necessary to increase taxes. If you approve the EET, it will be possible to reduce taxes. It's been a few months, a couple of years, and we have an EET, and we have a package here that's trying to raise taxes. So we are also trying to convince the Yes voters that this party set up in the elections, promised them that they would not raise taxes, would not complicate the tax environment, and they are doing the exact opposite at the moment. And even though it already has a record-high tax burden, it still wants to increase taxes. I think that the voters of YES have seen that they will no longer trust this political party, because there has been no crisis that would force the ANO movement to change its programming priorities, to come up with some sudden spending, so I believe that for the second time, the ANO voters have made promises that taxes will not be increased, they will not fall, and they will turn away from the ANO movement in the next elections. The package that - well, Prime Minister, I wouldn't laugh so much, the voters know. [[Watermelon]] Voters see that you're raising taxes, they see that you promised the exact opposite, now you're laughing in their eyes. We are discussing legislation that increases taxes. You laugh at these people for spending more money out of their wallets. I don't think that's funny. I think we should rather look at what inefficient expenses we have and try to cut them off. After all, even the right hand offers you cooperation and offers you room to solve these costs and taxes do not have to increase. [[11.20 hours]] The package here was marked by many adjectives. The Minister and the Minister argued with the Minister of Health - and the first sentence was that it was an addiction package. That it's a package to reduce alcohol consumption, cigarettes, and try to turn people away from gambling. Of course it's not true, just look at the name of the law. In that very name, the law says that its aim is to fill public budgets with additional money. Explicitly, the government here in the very name of the law admits that it wants to increase taxes, that it wants to get additional funds into the state budget and that it is not about fighting addiction. The second argument, why the opening question of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health does not apply, that he is trying to fight addiction, is the fact that the package is to bring CZK 20 billion extra into the state budget. If you look at how much this higher collection is supposed to be from the very increase in revenue from these very things, such as alcohol, cigarettes and tobacco, you will find that half of the total additional income for the state budgets to be 20 billion is to come from the taxation of the so-called technical reserves of insurance companies. I would like to ask both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance to explain to me when the taxation of insurance companies' technical reserves increases, when we touch insurance companies' reserves, how this will result in a reduction in dependence on alcohol, cigarettes and gambling. Which is the dominant part of this law. From this measure, the dominant part of the increased funds is to be directed to the State budget. I really haven't understood yet, and I ask the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance to explain to me how the technical reserves and demotivation of insurance companies create reserves, as this will lead to a reduction in dependence on alcohol, tobacco and gambling. I also do not fully understand this when increasing the administrative fee for the deposit in the real estate register, which increases by 100 percent. I asked the Minister to show me the time series of inflation, which would show that over the past few years inflation has risen by increasing the administrative fee by 100 percent. And I don't know what impact it has on the reduction in alcohol and excise duties and alcohol addictions. Clearly, the rhetoric was merely a marketing decoy. It was an effort to get some positive points in the media and for voters who say yes, so that's the fair government that fights addiction. But when the listener looks into the bowels of the law, he finds very quickly that the cigarettes and alcohol are not the dominant issue there, but that he will probably have to pay extra for the deposit of the land register or pay a higher insurance policy for his insurance contracts, because the Minister, having collected the reserve fund of national property, wants to collect the reserves of insurance companies that make them beyond mandatory regulation and thus contribute to greater stability of the insurance system. [[Fund]] I think it is not a good way for the Czech Republic to choose things such as reserves and reserves of insurance companies. Speaking of insurance companies, and the Czech Republic also has one incomparable competitive advantage towards Western countries, and this is a healthy banking sector and a healthy financial sector, which includes insurance companies, I think that we should take care of this competitive advantage and not disrupt it by choosing another fund where she finds money for redistribution and for such important things as the fare discounts that cost billions a year for the state budget. The package is not a fight against addiction. The package is an expensive package. It will simply cost people life in the Czech Republic, and it will not only cost people who drink, smoke or play gambling, but it will make people's lives more expensive even when they may be building new homes and looking for every crown, because it is clear that housing prices have moved up at an incredible pace in recent years. We are all discussing how we would need to liberalize construction legislation, how it would be necessary to facilitate construction activities so that housing and housing supply is greater, and at that point instead of helping them by the state, for example, by abolishing the real estate tax, which our club is proposing as an amendment to this package, so not only does the Minister say no to tax reductions, not to help young families when they buy expensive housing, not to facilitate the start-up of young families into life. On the other hand, she wants to make life even more difficult for them at the start. In addition to having expensive housing, wanting to regulate their mortgages, it makes it even more expensive for them to have a tiny little thing and stupidity like the cost of putting them into the real estate register. So the auction isn't just about people, like I said, who drink alcohol or smoke cigarettes, but also people who are responsible and have insurances, so they might, probably, if they get away with taxing the technical provisions, increase the insurances, and those, like I said, what they're getting, for example, they're going to have to give another thousand grand crowns. I do not understand why this government goes so against the interests of normal people and wants to make their lives more expensive, at a time when inflation in the Czech Republic is moving near the upper limit of the tolerance band of the Czech National Bank. I've been looking at the latest data, inflation is about 2.7 percent over the last month. We are approaching the 3% limit edge that the Czech National Bank tolerates. The Czech National Bank has a target of 2% inflation, unfortunately we have higher inflation in the last month - and what will the Minister do in this situation? The Minister is saying no, 2.7 is not enough, we will make life even more expensive for these people, we want the price level to grow even more than 3%, and we will set the excise duties to make these products more expensive, so we will fool these people and increase the administrative fees to overcome the 3% limit that the Czech National Bank has chosen as a tolerance zone. I think it's the wrong way. I think that when we have really higher inflation, which, after all, brings extra money to the Minister, because when we pay the value added tax, which counts the percentage of the price of the product, the Minister automatically brings extra money into the state budget. The growth itself, which is above average at present, brings additional revenues to the Minister alone, because consumers simply pay higher taxes on this percentage of VAT due to higher prices. But the secretary says no, no, no, I think the state is thin, it's efficient, it's small, we need to strengthen it, and it adds and collects more and more taxes. I don't think so. I think, as I said here in the budget debate, that the state is a hack that's gaining more and more pounds. That he might need some kind of reduction diet. That he needed to drain the fat. And I think that fat-- we all know what it is-- that they're extra civil servants, which, thanks to this government, we have $10,000 extra. That it's unnecessary expenses, some benefits that go to those people who don't deserve them at all. But the secretary says no, no, no, we're gonna add some extra pounds to that fat stash of meat, and come on, nice citizens, fold up. We want to redistribute even more, we are not satisfied with the economic growth, which guarantees us tens of billions of extra crowns each year. And I'm still very reserved. If you look at the state budget, next year the Minister will have CZK 113 billion extra to redistribute thanks to economic growth. By the time this package was not accepted, she would have deducted about 20 billion and would have had only less than 90 billion crowns to redistribute. Well, that's a terrible savings, isn't it? That's really, that's being the finance minister, so I'm gonna rip my hair off if I didn't happen to have 90 billion extra per year to redistribute, only 90 billion, and he wanted it by making people's lives even more expensive than 20 billion more. [[11.30 hours]] I think that the Minister of Finance could manage effectively with CZK 90 billion in addition, that he could save something out of the 90 billion, so that he would not have to propose deficit budgets at a time of growth. Unfortunately, we have the government we have. The Minister has decided that he will not take the state budget seriously, that he will let it pass, that he will not do anything structural with it, and that he will focus only on choosing as much as possible and redistributing as much stupid things as possible as student fare. Of course, we want to go the other way, we want to reduce taxes, we don't want to allow such a sklendrian to work here, that taxes will be approved only after the state budget has been approved, even though the state budget is counting on that money. We think that in times of higher inflation people need to be cheaper. We therefore come up with several amendments. I will present roughly three amendments. The one I would like to draw your attention to is the repeated increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer, which we once presented here with fellow pirát during the discussion of other tax legislation. At that time, Ferjenčík and I used the argument of higher inflation and growth in real wages and tried to explain to the Minister that the basic discount on the taxpayer had not changed since 2008. Since 2008, it has been at a level of less than 25,000. We tried to convince her that both real wage growth and minimum wage growth, but inflation over that time also recorded relatively significant figures, and that this significantly reduced the real level of the basic tax item. Another average wage was in 2008, another average wage is in 2019, but the basic discount on the taxpayer is still the same. Of course, there is a factual increase in the marginal tax rate facing individuals' income tax payers. The decline occurs in two channels. First, of course, the share of basic wages or basic income, which is subject to an increased effective rate, and, of course, rising inflation further reduces the fair value of nominally unchanged basic discounts. Not only does the increase in the average wage lead to the relative importance of the discount with regard to rising incomes of the population, income is subject to a higher tax base, but there is also a real reduction in the level of the basic discount itself by inflation. We, my colleague Ferjenčík, were thus arguing, even if we had calculated it, so we failed with the Minister in discussing the previous tax legislation, did not take the argument of rising inflation and rising real wages seriously, and this amendment, which would immediately bring extra money into people's wallets every month, killed here during the discussion of previous tax legislation. But we had no idea with Mr. Ferjenčík that the Minister would borrow our argument, that he would marry it, and that he would rewrite it into the tax package he's coming with today. The only change that occurred compared to us with my colleague Ferjenčík is that the Minister used the argument in the opposite direction and used it only in excise taxes and argued that the increased taxes and the increased real wages would, of course, reduce the relative amount of excise taxes, and that it is therefore necessary to increase them. On the one hand, we were delighted that she was using our argument, that she had inspired herself, we quickly started to enter into that amendment of the law, into the proposed points, and we hoped that this argument, which is valid, would also be used by the Minister in such things as years of constant basic discount on the taxpayer or such as years of constant limit - the limit for registration to pay the value added tax, because those did not change longer than excise duties changed. However, unfortunately, we did not find this matter in the finance secretary prepared by the amendment to the law. Thus, the Minister's argument of higher real wages is suitable for higher inflation when it can increase taxes, where it will mean more revenue for the state budget for it, but if it should consistently apply this logical argument to such things as the basic discount on the taxpayer or the limit to register entrepreneurs to pay VAT, the Minister is deaf to that argument, he does not hear and keeps his argument and uses it only if it suits him. And it only comes in handy when it means a further increase in taxes, another increase in life, and more revenue for the state budget. Another thing that, even if I admit that it is necessary to fight that addiction, and even if I admit that it is necessary to update those excise taxes, increase according to inflation, is not the simple primitive logic of increasing excise duties on alcohol or tobacco or gambling, that it automatically leads people to start drinking less, start smoking less, and start playing less gambling. I don't think that's how the world really works, and every economist will tell you that, especially for products like cigarettes, alcohol, or gambling, so-called. non-elastic demand for these products. The non-elastic demand in Czech means that if we increase the price of cigarettes by 10 %, liter alcohol by 10 % and if it becomes more expensive to the final consumer, he does not respond to it by the same relative decrease in consumption of this product. For him cigarettes and alcohol are more expensive, he will try to reduce the consumption at least a little bit, but he will never reduce it by as much as the price of alcohol or cigarettes has been increased. Well, what happens? At a time when a person who can't forgive himself for whatever reason, whether more or less cigarettes and alcohol, and who has to pay a higher price per unit of alcohol or cigarettes, will, of course, be left with a smaller portion of his disposable income for other products, for products that we would like to support. So we, on the other hand, by increasing alcohol and cigarettes in such a jumping way, can contribute to not improving the situation of these people, not improving the situation in crisis social groups, but making the situation worse, because people who do not forgive alcohol and cigarettes simply pay more for them and will have less money, for example. On the hobbies of their children, on healthy nutrition, on sports, on lunches in schools. I am also in committee discussions, and immediately after the Ministry of Finance has come up with this intention, colleagues from the Budget Committee will confirm it to me, so I strongly appealed to the Ministry of Finance to do at least some elementary calculation, at least some elementary consideration of how, especially in those socially risky groups, those people will behave after we make their lives very much more expensive, because in short, whether we like it or not, they consume products that we would like to see lower consumption. One of the other amendments I tabled was to increase the excise duty rate on alcohol, for many reasons. One reason is that I'm afraid of the unelasticity of demand, which I think will lead us to deepen the bad situation in these endangered social groups. But there are more reasons. Also because alcohol as a kind of alcohol or spirit as a kind of alcohol is already burdened disproportionately compared to other species such as beer, wine. When we compare how heavy beer is when we compare how much wine is burdened with taxes, and when we compare the spirits, they clearly lead the spirits. [[11.40 hours]] Also, the collection of excise duty on alcohol - spirits account for 59 percent, or 59 percent of what the state collects on excise duty on alcohol, goes directly from the consumption of alcohol to other items such as beer and wine, of which they are supposed to become much less money, even though it has to be underlined that the consumption of beer is much greater than the consumption of spirits, even though wine is at similar levels as spirits, so much less taxes are paid. So we have spirits that are already more heavily burdened than other types of alcohol today, they are already carrying out excise duties on alcohol from the dominant part, even though consumption is lower than for beer and wine, and we are burdening them relatively more than those two items. I don't think the right amount of increase has really been chosen. If this were actually approved, we will get to the level of Austria in excise duty, for example, even though it is quite clear to us that the income level of our neighbours is at a completely different level, the net income is roughly twice as high as in the Czech Republic, and yet they will have a lower rate after the increase. I think it's not normal that this will damage our distillery industry and that it will not lead to any reduction in addiction in the finals, but that it will deepen social pathological phenomena in crisis social groups. The last amendment, where I would ask you to support it, I think it is not a policy on which we would not have to agree, is the attempt to exempt certificates and language examinations from VAT tax after graduating from language courses, and it is also the exemption of children from VAT when they buy any language course. I think, and we all agree that for a country where exports are so important to us on economic performance, when we are small countries and we are forced and pushed into international cooperation, we should support language education. If you look, and I am sure that my colleagues in the fields of education, education, will confirm that the language competences of our fellow citizens are not at the best values in international comparison, that we are still unable to teach children perfectly two foreign languages, which seem to be the necessary equipment for our children to succeed and succeed in a very hard and competitive world. I therefore suggested that we free language tests, certificates from VAT, and that we allow young children, just as adults are using it today, to study languages in courses that will not be subject to VAT. I think this thing that won't cost the state budget that much money is worth it. I am not saying that this will reverse the bad situation where language competences in the Czech Republic are not at the highest level, but I think that this is one of the steps in which we can motivate our fellow citizens and our children to apply for language courses and to have the ambition to take language exams and to complement their language competences. My colleagues will undoubtedly present further amendments. I would ask you very much to take them seriously, to really think about them. Not all the intentions that the Treasury has written into the law will be fulfilled. I didn't even talk about the fact that, of course, people can react so that they would want to avoid any tax increases by going into the grey economy, in the worst case, to the black economy to the black market. We all know, and we all remember what the alcohol affair has caused, what it means, when we have high taxes to motivate people to burn their own booze, to make it in a bit of a corner. We all know that even in gambling, business entities that operate in it can adapt very quickly. We remember the physical slot machines that today can be logged in very easily on the Internet, start playing it for example on a server that is registered abroad. Perhaps there is an even higher risk of gambling, and the state will also lose additional revenue, because the gamble will simply want to avoid it. After all, when you look at the collection just from gambling after the first package that gambled, you find that certain types of gambling have seen a decline in revenue to the state budget, it was obvious that we are already moving on the other so-called forbidden side of the Lafferův křivka and that any further increase will lead to less revenue from the state budget and that we are more motivated by the black part of the economy to take on those people who are no longer up to it, and I think that the social consequences are much more serious than that some revenue from the state budget is going to fall. So please don't cost people their lives, they already have 2.7 because of inflation, not expensive, but they're still getting expensive. I don't think now's the time to add and make their lives even more expensive. Economic growth alone is driving the price level higher, so please let us not help it by approving taxes that will continue to make life more expensive. Please consider whether it is really worth taking from young families who buy their first homes and get every crown, because they no longer receive a 100% mortgage and real estate prices are generally rising throughout the Republic, so let us not complicate their lives, that we will increase their fee, which they must put on the cadaster, and let us not increase it, every crown is good for them. I also beg you not to test here what the financial sector or insurance sector can carry by touching the reserves they make. I think that we should be glad that they make reserves beyond mandatory legislative regulation, and we should not raise this risk with these measures. I guess that's it for me. Please, let's reject this price package. You won't get hurt, from year to year, you'll have 113 billion extra to redistribute next year, but only 93 in quotation marks. I think that the extra CZK 93 billion was so lucky that few governments could redistribute that much extra money. Try to be a little bit more in control, at least try to be a little less modest, even though the word to lower 90 billion extra is something like oxymoron, it doesn't really fit. Please try to think a little bit about what really makes sense to finance from a state that doesn't, and I'm sure you'll find that the $20 billion isn't worth going to the risks I was talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. That was Mr. Jan Skopeček. His performance from the region brought two factual points, Mrs Kalátová and Member Jaroslav Faltýnek. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good almost noon to all of you. In the last vote, I voted against, and I have a vote in favour of, it's the information for the log, I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. Now, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek with a factual remark, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning. I would like to respond to a colleague Skopeček yours. Yes, I was laughing. I didn't laugh at the taxpayers, I laughed at you. But then when I thought about it, I have to apologize. I was not laughing at you, Mr colleague, through Mr President, I was laughing at the fact that there is actually only one ODS matador here in the House, who remembers a balanced budget - he doesn't sit with us right now, that was in 1995, it's Marek Benda. That was the last balanced budget of the ODS government. And, you know, the interesting thing is that the ODS has genes, at least that's my opinion that if there's an election campaign, he promises to cut taxes. When it rules, it always increases taxes, and when it is in opposition, it always reduces or proposes to reduce taxes. [[11.50 hours]] And it's just that because Mr Skopeček is still a young boy and he can't remember what his colleagues have pushed through here, I'll remind him of it through the President. Since 2010 increase of personal tax by CZK 1,200 per year - so-called Flood Stokoruna. Furthermore, the withholding tax of 15 per cent of the interest on the construction savings. Furthermore, taxation of pensions for pensioners with total income above the triple average wage and cancellation of income tax reductions for all working pensioners. Next, Mr. Skopeček talks about building savings. They introduced...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u61	I'm sorry, in that case... [[Messenger. Let's drop the clock. - Fun.]] No, Mr. Chairman, it's my fault, and I have to take your word for it because I haven't turned on the stopwatch. [[Messenger. - Okay.]] [[Again from the diaper: But it can with priority rights.]] Well, in that case...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u62	May I? I'll finish it, it'll be quick. Mr. Stanjura, he remembers because he was in that government -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u63	No, no, no! Mr. Chairman Stanjura is right. I gave you my word on a point of fact, even though at that point you could have signed up with a priority right, you didn't do that. Don't be mad at me, it's my duty to correct my mistake by -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u64	Can I have priority rights, then?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u65	No, no, no. If you would like to sign up with a priority right, of course, Mr President, you can, but in that case, once Mr Skopeček and Benda's factual remarks have been exhausted. Then, Mr Stanjura's colleague is the first to be logged in properly after factual remarks, then Miroslav Kalousek. Both, although they have priority rights, without priority rights. So in that case, if you're applying with priority rights, then after you've exhausted your factual remarks. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Skopeček. You have your word. I'm measuring time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u66	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for considering me as a young boy. I confess that if an ANO fellow Member had said so, I would have been more pleased than when it came from the President, but there is nothing that can be done. I'll take that as a positive message. Mr colleague, you are remembering here one period of the functioning of civil democrats, even the period hit by the Euro-American global crisis and when fiscal policy had to respond very quickly to the falling revenues of the state budget. I wasn't really here then. I don't think the mix of fiscal policy was optimal. If I had been there, I would have chosen otherwise, but it is a little unfair here to criticize and tell the ODS that it raised taxes at a time when it was part of some kind of stabilization package that she responded to the crisis. After all, many of the measures we came up with were limited in time. What have you done with them? You guys canceled the time limit and increased your taxes all the time! We've only been counting on him for a time of crisis, so why are you lecturing us here? You're accusing us of introducing a limited period of time, and then you're going to cancel it, and you're going to charge people high taxes all the time, and you're going to blame us for reacting in some way during the economic crisis? Fortunately, you were also in a traditional political party. You're lucky you didn't change that. You have raised taxes both in social democracy and in the YES movement!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u67	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give my word on Marek Benda's factual remark, I'll read two apologies. From today's meeting from 13:00 he apologizes to the end of the meeting day Pavla Golasowská and Mr. Špičák cancels his apology between 10:00 and 13:00. Now, Mr Marek Benda's factual remark, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared for the factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u68	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, you know well that I do very little about taxes, budgets and other things. After all, I don't pretend to understand this at all, and I only act in situations where I consider them to be in some way incompatible with the Constitution or with other regulations. But since President Faltýnek has already taken me to his mouth here through the President, I would just like to point out that between 1998 and 2006, social democracy ruled. The current President and then his successors, whom he himself chose, who you're applauding here, have cut, if you remember correctly the sentences of Mr Sobotka, who was then chairman of your coalition government, the sentences of how resources are here and, as everything is fine, in years of growth, as well as today the movement is doing YES, the hundreds of billion-dollar deficits - well, today the deficits are a little smaller - and the result was that at the moment we boarded, it was very, very difficult. Yet the Topolánkův government, and here they are again, and I quote only what is being said here in the House, I do not claim that I understand how the left walks here and cries out that the biggest downside of public budgets was the packages imposed by the Topolánkův government in 2007 and 2008. So let's not say we were just raising taxes. Yes, we have raised taxes in a situation where, after these completely impeccable years of eating, there has been an economic crisis. I'm very worried that when we take turns after those two years, you'll be able to hold out there, that it will be very similar, that we'll be back in a crisis situation, and your incredibly generous budgets will have to be cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Václav Klaus, I will read another apology, Mr Dvořák, between 12 o'clock and the end of the day. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, it's before lunch, it's the weekend, so I just wanted to calm it down a little bit and decide you're here in this argument. To tell you the truth, Mr. Faltýnek is right that the ODS has raised taxes compared to its promises, and now he is in opposition and wants to reduce them. That's why he's where he is. But on the other hand, it's also very true that you're just raising taxes. So you can shake hands, make up and relax. I said when I ran, I wouldn't support any law that increases taxes, and I would support all laws that reduce them. So far, we're holding it, and that's why we're not going to support this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Stanjura's factual comment, then a colleague Benešík and Plzák, with factual remarks. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u72	Well, just to remind you. Václav Klaus obtained a mandate in our colours with our electoral program. He's pretending he wasn't, but he was. Many of us remember that. About what President Faltýnek said, how the ODS has always raised taxes. [[Nesroz. note messenger. Falty.]] It's okay, I'll just respond to what you said and then eventually to what you're gonna say. It's okay. I put you first, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking forward to the debate. Consider corporate tax, for example. By the time you were a socialist and ruled socialist governments, corporate tax, for example, was in 1999, I don't know which Prime Minister, whether it was Špidla, Gross or Paroubek, or before - or Zeman. It was Miloš Zeman, yes! Miloš Zeman, whom you so admire and support, so the corporation tax was 35 percent and the Social Democrat Jaroslav Faltýnek agreed and was thrilled because it was the leftist policy, and it is true. That was left-wing politics. Then the right-wing government started in 2006 and reduced the tax to 24 percent in 2007, to 21 percent in 2008, to 20 percent in 2009 and to 19 percent in 2010. That is still true. [[12.00 hours]] By 16 percentage points, we reduced the tax against the rule of the Socialists Jaroslav Faltýnek. And he calls it raising taxes. Well, for me, it's not even... You don't need a math degree for that, we don't have to argue about that, it's a tough debate. Simple math is enough for that. During the period of socialist Jaroslav Faltýnek 35 percent tax rate, ODS passed 19 percent corporate tax rate. Increase or decrease? Everyone do the math. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Ondřej Benešík's factual comment, then Mr Plzák and Mr Munzar's colleague, with factual remarks. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u74	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. Of course, I personally and KDU-ČSL have many fundamental reservations about this submitted press for logical reasons. The reasons are here, and they are discussed in detail. But I would like to stop at one thing that Mr Jan Skopeček specifically mentioned, and that is language education. In this package, his taxation or cancellation of teaching appears. I think it is a very bad step in a situation where the Czech Republic is not standing well in this respect, and knowledge of foreign languages is one of the essential conditions for competitiveness in today's globalised world. So let's think about it, and I'll just be happy if even the discussion of the tax package where this is proposed will lead to a discussion on how to improve language amenities in the Czech Republic. Because this is really a strategic matter that's a little neglected. We are truly world premieres in the number of strategies we develop and write down to improve this situation. But the improvement, 30 years after we opened up to the world, is very slow, very little, and it is necessary to add a lot in this. And I don't think increasing these services is a good start.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u75	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Pavel Plzák, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Very fast. I applied to the comment because I was touched by the word of my colleague Klaus, who is not here, who said that we are just raising taxes. I think a lot of taxes have fallen during our reign. And I would ask the Minister if Klaus could introduce, or her officials, such a small summary that all taxes have decreased during our reign, if that is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u77	I thank my colleague Plzák for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. And if the Minister is applying, with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura is the first to sign up. I haven't given you my word yet, colleague. I know it's your turn. And with priority rights, Mr. Faltýnek, Okamura... Serious enough, after a colleague of Munzar. Now you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I just have a little point to make to President Faltýnek through you. For example, the list also forgot that the ODS abolished de facto the inheritance and donation tax between direct relatives because a zero rate of tax was fixed. And if there was a YES in the government then, the Minister would have written to me again on this proposal the same reaction that she wrote to me on the proposal to abolish the real estate tax, that it was a non-constructive proposal, and that it was budgetaryly irresponsible. So it's a good thing we've been to the government, and we've been able to cancel that tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u79	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, with a factual remark from the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In response to Mr. Plzák, I've got it in my head, all the numbers. So, in the past and in this government, we've all reduced taxes in total - the table is already being printed somewhere - by 98,8 billion. And now it will come into effect in connection with the amendment to the Electronic Sales Recording Act, which includes an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, by another 3.4 billion, so we are somewhere over 100 billion, which we could afford thanks to the fact that we simply chose them better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u81	There. One more point in fact, my colleague Stanjura's point. Then priority rights, Mr Faltýnek and colleague Tomio Okamura. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u82	I don't want to argue about the numbers, because the Treasury is always overestimating their estimates, underestimating ours, but even if the Secretary was right, by canceling the super gross wage, you took 21 billion. per year. Six times twenty is 120 billion. So with one measure alone, you increased our employees' taxes mainly from dependent activity by 120 billion. 120 minus 90, because even if you were right, you still raised taxes by almost 30 billion. Moreover, cumulative sums over several periods actually make no sense in the real debate. If we want to talk about what brings about changes in laws, it can't be a dynamic change, but it has to be static. And we have to compare it two years in a row, where the influence is obvious. Then other influences such as inflation, employment rates, and unemployment are added, and these data are simply distorted. So for the debate to be correct, we say, "We are resisting what President Faltýnek said, that we were just increasing." Unfortunately, we've even raised the taxes. We admit it. Sometimes we called it a mistake, that's all true. But we have also significantly reduced taxes. And if I add up a plus or a minus, we're definitely a plus. Remember, President Faltýnek, you were the Social Democrat at the time, that was screaming: Mirek Topolánek's tax backpack left the taxpayers and companies 80 billion. Every year! The entire socialist left and communists shouted for years. That was a tax cut. We left the money to the natural and legal persons. 80 billion. per year. So what are you criticizing us for? So be precise, tell me, this is where you cut, this is where you raised, we like the increase, we kept it! We're criticizing him, but we like the money! So we pretend we had nothing to do with it, but we kept the money. Then it's a fair debate. The moment you say, and only the election vows. We promised our voters we wouldn't rule with you. Many didn't believe us. We're not ruling with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. Mr Josef Hájek's point of fact. And then priority rights, as I reported, Jaroslav Faltýnek and Tomio Okamura. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u84	Mr President, I expected my colleague Luzar to come forward and remember privatization here. How many hundreds of billions ended up in tax havens and accounts of various former politicians. Soon we will be discussing, perhaps next month, or this month, the privatisation of OKD and there we will also learn about at least 65 billion that have been stolen. This week the President spoke here, and you may have remembered that he mentioned one number, that only this year, or virtually. in the next year's budget, the Czech Republic will pay 27 billion for the solar tunnel. 27 billion! And I'm not counting the distribution costs. In 20 years it will be almost one trillion crowns! We're arguing about the dimes in this dimension, and here, thanks to the ODS and the inactivity of you, one trillion crowns! Shame on us. Everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u85	There. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr Jiří Bláha and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared to make a point of order. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u86	I can promise Mr Hájek and others, every time you tell a lie that the ODS is behind a solar tunnel, we're gonna fight back every time. It's up to you. I was watching yesterday and the day before yesterday when the law was passed. Do you know when, Mr Hájek, through the Vice-President? [[Member of Hájek from the bench: 2009.]] No, you have the wrong idea, 2009! 2005! Where the ODS was in opposition at the time. How did the ODS Members vote on the bill? Everyone against it! Well, at least please study it! But if you want to beat us over the head, I've read the list of the criminal reports you gave, there are your coalition partner's politicians for a long time. Am I wrong? You rule with them. You're pressing charges against them. And you blame us? There's no logic in that! So please study this and don't lie about some solar tunnel. We warned about it! And it was the government of social democracy that pushed for it. Well, look at the vote, I'll bring it here next time, and I'll read it by the names of who was pros and cons! Including the so-called an amendment which allegedly made this worse. I'll also tell you who loaded it and who voted for it. It's a good thing we have the records. [[12.10 hours]] Mr Hájek seems to have approved in 2009. Four years later. Do you know how long ODS ruled in 2009? In that calendar year? Two months! Two months. Then the administrative government of Jan Fischer joined and halted the prepared action against this ill-considered law and the ill-considered effects of this bill. So I'm asking you all and I'm asking you nicely, if you're going to talk about a solar tunnel, name the MPs and the political parties that supported it. Let's start with that. I think that's a legitimate criticism. And if you find the ODS policy there, we'll take that part by the number of votes ourselves, but I'm telling you, you won't find it there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u87	Now, with Mr Jiří Bláha's factual remark, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. I still have a third application, Mr. Josef Hájek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm still hearing tax cuts in the ODS government, and I'm not surprised as an entrepreneur, but also as a citizen. If we're going to explain this to these people, then if VAT went up from 5% to 15% for your governments, then what was it? It was that by 10 percent we made people's life costs more expensive every day. Absolutely clear. If you say we've reduced some contributions to companies, then look at how much they collect from those companies and how much they collect on VAT. It's only because you didn't know how to collect taxes from companies, so you made it more expensive for ordinary people. So name it what it is, and that's just how it works. We are now lowering food prices, food prices, because it is decreasing in restaurants from 15 to 10, or from 21 to 15, now from 15 to 10. So that's what we do for ordinary citizens. Because it's an immediate effect. You're going to buy food and you're not going to have it more expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u89	Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Josef Hájek, will be prepared. So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I also have a point of fact on Mr Hájek by your means, even though President Stanjura has already said so. That's when someone confuses concepts and impressions. You're trying to create the impression that the ODS is responsible for everything here, even for the laws they voted against. You're even trying to create an impression when I take it in general that it's because you chose to be the closest and most loyal partner of the Communist. There's only one thing I want to say to you. We also suffer from these billions, but count how long you've been in government, and I want to ask you what you've done to keep these billions out of the state budget. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u91	Mr Josef Hájek, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and then Mr Havlíček. So please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u92	I won't hold up. You're right, it was the law of 2005. But I'm sorry that you didn't really use the space, because you already knew about the risk that the costs invested by investors for the construction of photovoltaic power plants would return to them a hundredfold in 2007, 2008, 2009. The fact that this was allowed to happen to Fischerův's government, which somehow let it go unresponsive, is, I think, the prosecution not only of the ODS, I apologize, but of all the political entities that were here in the Chamber of Deputies, and that it would actually cost the taxpayers one trillion crowns. No one's gonna take that away from us, and we're really gonna pay back another x-year for politicians to fail here. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u93	The chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura will now perform with the facts and the Minister Havlíček will prepare himself. These are the last facts so far, so after them with priority rights would finally come to the chairman of the club ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek. [[He's turning to Stanjuru.]] You've got the facts. So you're making it available, so the minister will come forward. And I'm supposed to cancel your de facto so far? [[You can't hear the answer.]] Okay. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I'd take the liberty of entering the solarium discussion. The point is not at all what happened in 2005. In principle, the law is useless to torpedo. The idea of tanning wasn't bad at all. Supporting solar energy is normal. The problem that occurred between 2006 and around 2010 was because it started to appear not only in the Czech Republic, but especially in other European countries, it was Spain, it was Hungary, it was France that it was just starting to go in the wrong direction, that solar panels were starting to go extremely down and that prices that started to set were just starting to collapse and that it was starting to get into a completely different plane. This means that it has been quite obvious and it has already been observed that we are in a critical situation in other European countries. And nothing was done in those years. The truth is that nothing has been done again in 2009, 2010 and it has been approved. But it is not possible to get out of the whole chain of problems of 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 to 2010, that everything was bad in 2005, then three years fought for a better tomorrow, and in 2010 and 2011 it all fell apart. All those who stood with the government between 2005 and 2010 are to blame for paying one billion crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u95	Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u96	[[He's going back to the microphone.]] Sorry, one trillion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u97	The minister mentioned six long years. We ruled for 25 months at the time. I was just counting. Let's get the signals out of the surrounding countries, try to show me the signals in the January, February or 2007 period press. I don't think they were. But I didn't do central politics, not energy, so I could be wrong. So let's be fair. The YES movement has ruled for six years and nothing has been done about it. We ruled in the incriminate period of 25 months, I think the signals could have been about the second half of that period, I'm not saying that they weren't, but I say that Topolánkův's government has prepared certain measures, the government inherited them from Jan Fischer, who threw them in the trash. I agree that everything did not come about just in 2005. But if you add the wrong law - I used the analogy in another debate with the minister about the pyromaniac. Pyroman sets a fire and then criticizes the volunteer fire brigade that they arrived a minute later. This is very often the logic of ODS criticism in the story of solar energy support. And I think with the pyromaniac and the volunteer fire brigade, we'd say it doesn't exactly match the responsibility of whoever arrived a minute later than the one who set the fire. But I'm ready at another point for a more detailed debate. We want to map it, not file criminal charges, to talk about the political responsibility of the actions taken at the time. Of course, when we're all ten years more experienced, we have it easier on those politicians who made the decisions at the time. But we're ready for this debate. If it's not about impressions -- you approved it, you supported it -- but it's about facts. And if part of our responsibility shows up there, we will certainly accept it. But we have to admit that after 2010, we had the courage to at least try to correct it with significant taxation. We have reduced support for further years according to size, we have increased substantially the price for exempting from the soil pool for lavatories that we have never supported, so our governments have taken enough action against. But those who pushed for it bear the greatest responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u98	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Leo Luzar, so far, the last application. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this debate has stirred up into areas that I very much like, and these are so-called. solar barons. I'm really enjoying the fact that there's data being transferred here, and they're putting it under the impression that no one's actually to blame. But there is an independent regulatory office here, and his then director, Josef Fiřt, could certainly interpret it. As early as 2008, when he began to sound alarms about what was happening in this area and who he was and who he convinced that action had to be taken. At the time there were politicians - I will not name them here, if this investigation really happens, I will be very, very happy - so they talked about making up or making up their own soup. [[12.20 hours]] Yes, everything could have been. But the Spanish example, which is mentioned and which was already in Europe that there was simply radical changes in the economy of this business, should have been a warning. That then there were changes in governments and Fischerův's government sort of threw it away, so, paradoxically, the ODS sided with the solar system when it blocked the preparation of changes. And that's also documented in the basis of the materials that are related to this material. But it really isn't a discussion who get what you have in the past. Let's see, I wouldn't be at all opposed to the parallel of a possible investigation committee within the solar barons, and look at it really, how who then decided and voted. Perhaps this company would also be interested to know where the billions are actually ending and who was at the beginning of this problem and how it was going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u100	Now, yes, one de facto. So, Mr Jakub Janda and the chairman of the ANO club, Jaroslav Faltýnek, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u101	Thank you for the floor. I am only here to respond to Mr Luzar through you. Who was at the beginning of the problem - at the beginning of the problem was KSČM. I will read it here: the original proposal was proposed on 13 November 2003 by the Government of Vladimír Špidla and in the Chamber of Deputies for him, in addition to the parties to the coalition, the ČSSD, the KDU-ČSL and the Union of Freedom, voted on 23 February 2005 as well as the KSČM. She was against the ODS. So who was, Mr Luzar, through Mr President, at the beginning of the problem? It was you, too, communists. And you forget too fast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u102	One more point in fact, Mr Leo Luzar. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u103	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker with your permission. Yes, in the beginning there were Members who supported the development of solar energy. Yes, they did, because at the time, the intention was that the tanning products should be small, they should spread and support. This isn't where we talked about what happened after that. Even a good law can be abused and even under a good law we can sign as communists and we signed under it. The problem was further development and abuse. And when you quote it here, I would also like to quote, "Let's hurry slowly. There can't be a dispute about stalling. The Ministry of Industry originally assumed intervention in 2010. However, the ODS had a problem with such speed, its legislators forgot the earlier doubts about renewable resources. Instead, they showed a remarkable concern that a sudden change would not harm their ongoing investment projects, primarily ČEZ's plans." That's a quote from the period press. There is no point in convincing ourselves here about how it was and who it was, but I warn you that it is simply a big problem of Czech politics, and let us admit, let us talk about how we should also stand up to it and not use it, for example, to discuss the tax package as an argument. But it really wants to pour some pure wine and tell yourself how the whole case of tanning is going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u104	Such a factual remark by the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura club, so far a single application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u105	For Mr Luzar, by your means. I think it's really different to quote from the House of Deputies' Steno Protocol plus the results of the vote and the period press. I'm kind of wondering if it was a Hello newspaper or who wrote it. It's probably from the period press, but I think the Steno Protocol and the record of the vote in the Chamber of Deputies are worth much more. Find me that limitation in the original 2005 law, e.g. On rooftops or small performances and quote those 2005 paragraphs when you apologize for being just for the little ones. In my opinion and my knowledge - I can be mistaken - there was no such thing. That someone thought that, well, that's possible, I can't rule that out, but there was no size limitation, and I think it wasn't until after 2010, when the size was limited to support. So you can't apologize to the fact that it was for the little ones back then, and then it took advantage. There was no restriction, and those who voted in favour have a much greater responsibility than those who were against it at the time. Well, that's logical, there's nothing wrong with it, nothing weird about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u106	So now Mr Leo Luzar has a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u107	I owe a quote to the diary. It was through you to a colleague Stanjur, I owe him the information, then the time journal Economi iToday, which he published. There are more articles from that time. So Hello's newspaper was also writing about it then, of course, but in order to avoid the accusation that I quote from my own sources, it was ekonom idnes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u108	Now, with priority right, the chairman of the club of the ANO movement Jaroslav Faltýnek will perform, and the next one is me in order afterwards. And then Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u109	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It is a good thing that we are still discussing the issue of taxation. Anyway, I looked into Wikipedia, because there's still a debate about who was in charge, so just to read it to you, how it actually happened. It's information for all of us. ODS is the Czech liberally conservative right-wing party of government in 1992-1996, 1996-1997, for the third time from autumn 2006 to spring 2009 and again from July 2010 to July 2013. That's on the ODS official website. Now, if I may, I'd like to finish my performance, as I had the factual remark, when I just wanted to revive all of us's memory, as it was when the ODS ruled in terms of tax increases. I ended up introducing a 50 percent tax on construction savings aid, increased the toll for passenger cars from 1,200 to 1,500 and tolls for freight wagons for a quarter. And now there's a road sign, I feel like there's still 1,500, right? That's right, isn't it? The toll is higher. Rate of tax on cigarettes and tobacco, for drivers running on gas from 1. 1. 2012 tax on compressed natural gas of CZK 500 per tonne has been introduced, the lower rate of VAT from 10 to 14 per cent for food, medicines, heat, water, transport, books and other items has already been raised. Furthermore, a 32 per cent tax was introduced on emission allowances in the production of heat and electricity. Furthermore, on 7 November 2012, a further increase in VAT from 14 to 15 per cent at the lower rate and from 20 to 21 per cent at the upper rate. Children's diapers were placed at a higher rate and thus increased their taxation from 14 to 21 percent. They approved - this is interesting - an increase in the real estate transfer tax from 3 to 4 per cent, they approved the abolition of tax reductions for businessmen and an increase in personal income tax from 15 to 22 per cent and for people with income above four times the average of the cancellation of the ceiling for payment of health insurance. Those are the facts. And the last point on my part, as a rare colleague here said - I don't know who he was anymore, I think colleague Skopeček - that we are cutting hundreds of billion-dollar deficits at a time of economic growth, so it is exactly the opposite. At a time of economic growth, when GDP growth was 2-3 %, you were cutting hundreds of millions of deficits. Unfortunately, I don't have the graph here, but on some closer occasion, and this debate is definitely going to continue in the next few days, so I'm going to prepare for it because I'm not an economist, I'm a farmer, so I'm going to pull out the graphs and we can discuss it here. You're still referring to the crisis that was, was, was, but the deficits were mowed back in the years when there was economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u110	Now, I have two factual points here, Mr. MP... [[Mr. Faltynek is returning to the rhetorical site.]] Yes, please, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u111	I'm still sorry, Mr. Stanjura's reaction. Yes, Jaroslav Faltýnek, and we all know that, has been a member of social democracy for 20 years. And I'm very fond of remembering that time. I'm kind of proud of it, and I appreciate it. So I'm glad that sometimes it reminds me that it sounds in that public space, that I've been a member of social democracy for 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u112	With a factual remark now two entries, so the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club and Mr. Jiří Bláha will prepare himself. Mr. Chairman, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u113	I'm glad I pleased President Faltýnek, I didn't mean it critically, as a matter of fact. That confirms my proverb, which I like to say. Once on the left, always on the left. It's okay. But the facts that Mr. Faltýnek said. Yes, that's right. I think he said exactly, we ruled when you count it, as Andrej Babiš says, ODS didn't rule here for 30 years, unfortunately, but much less. The intervals were absolutely accurate. Perhaps if you counted the government's actions of your former party and today your new party with your former party, it's certainly a longer period. But that's not the point. You read the measures we took in the context of the crisis correctly, but you forgot to say the important thing. It's been three years. And you guys have longed, it's been six years longer. If we're responsible for these three years of tax increases, and I'm applying for that, that's just a fact, that's how we raised it, just like you read it. It was supposed to end at 1. 1. 2015. So we have 33 percent responsibility, and you have 67. So we pushed for it for 2013, 2014, 2015 and you pushed for it for 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and so far you are not going to change any of this in this parliamentary term. Yes, we raised excise taxes and reduced income taxes. We think that the state has more appreciation for activity, that means less taxing it, and if it needs tax revenue and needs tax revenue security, defense, we don't have to say that, so it's much fairer to tax the consumption, not the activity. That's our political opinion, that's how we acted. So, yes, we've increased some of the excise taxes, among other things VAT, virtually. indirect taxes, not consumer taxes, indirect taxes, but we have reduced direct taxes. This is in line with our political agenda, it is not a bad thing and in those years we have actually done it, as President Faltýnek said. [[Time!]] [[Time!]] [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u114	I beg you, one final point of fact. Member Jiří Bláha. I apologize for saying that time three times, I have already been brought to the attention of other Members of Parliament on the drag. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add, I am glad that we have returned to the taxes and bureaucratic burdens that are most talked about here. And I just want to add, now Mr. Stanjura tells us that they were the ones that raised excise taxes most, so direct taxes to all citizens, but they and the bureaucracy were the ones that moved the most. When I started my business 30 years ago, I didn't have to do anything. But it's been coming since 1992. You have a business license, and you've been doing business for two years, we don't really care that you're doing it right and employing people. You're not trained in the field, so you can't do business. Get yourself a responsible person, and she can guarantee you you can do business. And this goes on and on. Safety of work, environment, fire protection, employment policy and so on and so on. Every day a new paper, or every year a new paper, every year dozens of new papers have grown and the bureaucracy that remains to this day has grown. And believe it, if I mess up something, it's so hard to fix and come back. So for the next 30 years, we're going to fix what's been done mostly under the governments of the past few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u116	Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Marek Benda, will now prepare for Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Two facts so far. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u117	I must honestly admit that it is a gift for the opposition when someone acts as Mr. Government Member, Mr. Mr. Bláha. Really. I mean it quite frankly, it is a gift for the opposition. Because if you're right, why does your government, for example, propose to regulate tightening up the conditions for real estate brokers? Why didn't you enforce the YES movement so that such a law wouldn't pass the government at all? Who liberalized the trade law for the great scream of the left, who exactly want what you were talking about? I'm not saying it's not true, but look at the years it was created, when we ruled and when your loyal coalition partners ruled, the socialists. We have significantly reduced the number of tied trades in favour of the free. Yes, there are still meaningless claims, just as you said, some responsible representatives. You haven't suggested anything in six years. Nothing at all. By the time this term is over, it'll be almost 50-50, years of ODS in government, and years of YES in government. The difference will be dramatically small. It'll almost be even. And you've been talking for six years, Mr. Bláha, two years to confess, and what did he do? Did you bring some kind of MP bill that would make it easier so that, for example, when the owner is a company, he wouldn't have to look for those responsible representatives? I'll tell you. He hasn't submitted anything. Every time he comes - I'm sorry, you pretend you're the only one who does business in the Republic that you're the only one who understands the problems of small businessmen. Believe me, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u118	Now one more point of fact, Mr Marek Benda. Then I should prepare myself with the priority right, and then Minister Schillerová is still interested in speaking. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u119	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I was also provoked by Mr Bláha because I am a memoir of those years and I remember the times when bureaucracy was increasing and in which years it decreased. Václav Kalus, older when he was Prime Minister and when the Minister brought him a bill that had more than 50 paragraphs, he gave it to them, those Vodičk, Dyb, Kočárník, and he told everyone if you can't write it in 50 paragraphs, so don't come here with it at all. This is how it was ruled between 1992 and 1998. Then came your President Miloš Zeman, whom you have so applauded here. And you'll remember Minister Grygar, who was dating those two huge bags of paper, and how the Prime Minister at the time bragged about how fat laws were passed. I know that this was partly related to the fact that we joined the European Union and that, of course, a number of regulations had to be harmonised. But these are the years 1998 to 2006 and, in particular, 2002 to 2006, when there was a dramatic increase in bureaucracy in this country. When the Civil Service laws first came up. All untouchable. Then it took another ten years, when it was possible to accept it in any way, so that the state budgets would not go crazy, and that was exactly the time when each thing needed a stamp, everyone had to be guarded, we still need to say goodbye to those free 1990s that led to the great chaos, as your Prime Minister likes and often says.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u120	I now have three factual points here, so I will recapitulate this so that many Members can prepare themselves. Mr Jiří Bláha, Mr Vojtěch Munzar and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u121	I would also like to thank you, through Mr President Stanjur, for the drop record, because at the beginning I went around you all with proposals that we could make for entrepreneurs and normal citizens in terms of business, in terms of tax burdens, in terms of bureaucracy, and to this day I remember the words of Mr Stanjura, who told me Mr Blá, we are not here to help you with anything, but to delay it as much as possible. And if you asked about the MIT, you would ask about other ministries who go around today and every day and try to do something for entrepreneurs, change perhaps just the wrong control activities of our institutions, map all things, reduce administrative burdens, so you would find that every day I try to lobby for entrepreneurs and for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u122	Mr Vojtěch Munzar will now appear, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u123	Thank you. I still want to respond back to my colleague Luzar through you. It took me a while to find it in the archives of the House, which concerns the law on the promotion of renewable energy sources. It was press 529 at the time, and my colleague Luzar here said that the communists thought that it only covered small projects and that only small projects would be supported by it. If you look at the press and the law, Section 3 clearly said it was for everyone, including the large devices. There was only a limitation, an exception that did not apply, and these were large-power hydropower plants. All others, including large solar power plants, were covered by this law. Well, I don't know where my colleague Luzar got the impression that it should only apply to small projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u124	So far, the last application, chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura's de facto club. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u125	It is very difficult to react when Mr Bláha interprets our actions to six eyes, I was there alone, he had a lovely assistant with him, if I remember correctly. I didn't say anything like that, but I don't have a recording device in my office to prove you're not telling the truth. I told you, the headlines, the headlines are that Mr. Bláha brought me an A4 where he was, for example. We'll reduce bureaucracy. [[unintelligible]] [[Unintelligible.]] Absolutely. But I told him something else. A major reduction in bureaucracy cannot be written from opposition benches. We don't have dozens of lawyers and legislators like the various ministries. And logically. No opposition ever has such legislative options. Yes, from the opposition it is not difficult to write a proposal to change the income tax rate of natural persons. But from the opposition, it is impossible to write a new law on personal income tax. Just impossible. We are aware of this, which is why our proposals that go are relatively modest, because we do not want to make legislative mistakes there and we are aware that without the teams of lawyers we are unable to prepare this legislatively well. A political debate about the content of this law is something else. So I didn't say anything like that. But really, and I'm not gonna change that just because you falsely accused me, I'm not gonna record meetings that I'm talking about, for example. with government MPs. Why would I do that? But it is extremely incorrect for a microphone after two years to interpret a hearing with only three people. I have no way of defending myself except to say to the microphone, "You're not telling the truth, Mr. Blá."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u126	I'll take my place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u127	The Vice-President Okamura is now registered with priority rights, then the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, the government's tax package is supposedly partly motivated by the government's concern for our health. And he's supposed to be good for him. That's nonsense, and the truth is the other way around. Government proposals for tax changes are very unhealthy and will endanger both the health of citizens and the health of insurance companies and the health of our economy. The SPD will not support the government's proposed tax increases and I will explain exactly why. On Tuesday, consulting company McKinsey published a report warning that a third of the world's banks would probably not survive a serious weakening of the economy and should therefore radically change their business model. Even the greatest layman understands that if there is an emergency, the one who has savings is better off than the one who drowns in debt. In the financial sector, such savings are called a financial reserve. Today, the government is going to push insurance companies to reduce these reserves at the time of the coming economic crisis and to take profits in the form of dividends from the Czech Republic. A normal mortal doesn't understand. Nor do economists, bankers, and other financial market experts understand. The government of the movement YES, ČSSD and KSČM prepared this proposal without taking into account the comments of the Czech National Bank, the Czech Association of Insurance Companies, economists and other experts. All these institutions stress the unsystematicness and danger of this sector tax, especially in the impact on insurance clients, namely our citizens. According to experts, the Ministry of Finance, under the direction of Minister Alena Schillerová, essentially decided to punish the sector tax with long-term caution for insurance companies. They have created technical reserves for decades to be able to cover all, even unexpected, client claims in the future. The Minister of Finance argues that insurance companies optimize taxes by making reserves. Yes, but what's wrong with this case when the current system favors making reserves before making profits? And it is still better for us when money is in the Czech Republic as a reserve for a possible crisis than when they go somewhere in the Cayman Islands. The government also quite unacceptably proposes to increase citizens by 100 percent of the deposit fee in the real estate register. At the same time, the cadastral officials are being paid from taxes, so I'm missing what other charges. So the government can keep citizens from harassing officials? I don't know anyone who goes to the authorities without having to. If someone buys a property, which is actually one of the forms of savings again, it is a form of reserve for the worse times that citizens stabilize their social situation, and the state punishes them for it. The state's commendable efforts to care for itself are making it more expensive. It's an antisystem step again. And it doesn't matter how little it supposedly brings to the state. What matters is how much it takes from a citizen and what state gives him a message. You didn't make money and buy real estate? Then pay the fine! This is an appalling policy of this government of the ANO, CSSD and KSČM movement in crystalline submission. Rub the decent, working people to the max. The government also proposes higher taxation of gambling. And we're not even applauding it, and I'm going to explain why. In other people's misfortune, the state should not parasite, and any dangerous gamble that causes addiction, that is video terminals and their equivalents on the Internet, should ban! So it's not that we're against higher taxation, we're in favour of gambling, we want to ban it! I have repeatedly made proposals here to ban slot machines and their internet equivalents. That's the proposal we're proposing. Expert studies have shown more than once that gambling revenues are several times lower than the costs to become the damage that gambling causes to people. When proposing changes, Minister Schillerová of the ANO movement liked that the Czech Republic was one of the countries with a low black market share of cigarettes and alcohol. This has decided to change completely illogically by increasing the already high taxation of tobacco and alcohol. I would recommend to the Minister to visit the country pub and, if necessary, where the pub government destroyed its EET, some local firehouse or other place where people meet. Because the pub isn't there anymore, it's already gone. She would find that the number of people who no longer smoke cigarettes, but tobacco, multiplied. And that there's a rocket increase in people who smoke smuggled cigarettes and smuggled tobacco. Mostly from Ukraine. Is it the healthier model? For the lungs and the state register? I'm asking. Here you see the amateurism of government proposals in practice. I know the government doesn't have time for this for some unknown reason, but you just have to enter the term "home-burner" into the search engine and discover a growing market for distillation devices. This does not mean that the black market for alcohol would decline, but vice versa, that it is still growing despite the fact that domestic burning outside the official brandy is illegal. It's the least I can do. But high alcohol taxation is really a motive for professional criminals, who then threaten the health and lives of people under the influence of illegal alcohol. That's a much bigger problem. It's not like I'm bagging illegal burning. I point out that the real problem is even bigger. [[12.50 hours]] I hope you still remember the so-called. an alcohol or methanol affair. In September 2012, a series of methanol poisoning occurred in the Czech Republic and Poland. By 29 January 2013, 47 citizens of the Czech Republic, three citizens of the Republic of Poland, and dozens of others were hospitalized, with many suffering permanent visual damage. However, this figure was not definitive because the amount of poisonous methane was still circulating among humans. Therefore, even after the main wave of poisoning, new victims continued to appear. And the culprit wasn't just alcohol frauds; the equivalent of the culprit was a state that, by high taxation, motivates these impostors more and more to circumvent the law. It's not surprising for economists. On the contrary, unfortunately, it is completely logical. The world-famous Lafferův curve, named after American economist Arthur Laffer, depicts the hypothetical dependence of the total amount of taxes levied on the level of taxation. Laffer says high taxes have a negative impact on economic growth because they weaken people's motivation to work, increase tax evasion and cause capital to escape from the country. End of quote. Yes, it's a proven and verified principle for decades. Yet most governments throughout Europe ignore him and make the same mistake over and over again. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, a good government does not know by giving more, but by stealing less from citizens. Do not cost citizens their lives, and you do not have to deal with citizens in need. The YES movement promised not to raise taxes, we all remember, and the Prime Minister even promised a balanced budget. None of these promises are happening. The opposite is happening. It was a lie. On the contrary, taxes are still increasing, and as you know, the tax quota is also increasing. And it's continuous. I'm sorry, fellow Members, but not only to me, but to a large number of citizens, this seems like a big election scam. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u129	Thank you, too. The Minister has withdrawn his right of priority, but there is a factual remark from Mr Nacher, and then President Stanjura will be prepared properly for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Now I've listened carefully to Vice-President Okamura, if he's listening to me now, and I've seen such illogicalness in what he said, so I'm gonna have to draw attention to that illogicality, just like I did this morning with the investment life insurance. He said that the negative externalities of the slot machines are far above the taxation, which is why it needs to be banned. Okay, that's legitimate, some opinion. At the same time, on another subject, which is the taxation of alcohol, I would also remind you that alcohol and its consumption carry some negative externalities, which, in my opinion, and I do not have the numbers here now, because I did not know we were going to talk about it, exceeds the yield, so in that logic Mr Okamura should also want prohibition in that case, it is also to prohibit alcohol from being consistent. But either they pay one or they pay the other. This means, if it exceeds the negative externality of something, we're either essentially taxing it, totally or completely forbidding it. But then in that speech, Mr. Colleague, you also contradicted yourself in saying that there is a need for something... that there is a higher amount of the black one, the one outside the market, but the same will apply to the various halls and these matters. Just when there's prohibition, something goes off, it goes off the grid. And that's true of both alcohol and slot machines. So I would just ask for consistency in the contribution, whether it's gambling, alcohol and all this stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u131	So now I don't have another application for de facto, so with priority rights I'll ask the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura club, but I'll read one apology before you come. From 1:00 p.m. to the end of the day, Mrs Matušovská apologizes for personal reasons. Mr President, you have unlimited room in the general debate under the Rules of Procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So I didn't sign up with priority rights, but I let go of all priority rights. I have applied properly to the debate. [[You're right.]] But it's my turn, so it doesn't really matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u133	You're right. You waited patiently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u134	I have to say that this time my speech to the tax package will be longer than usual, so I've been preparing what I'm going to try to convince you to at least modify it if you don't reject it, which would be the best thing to do, will have a chance in the first vote. When we get to him, we will vote against this press. And it would be great news that the House has largely agreed that taxes will not increase, and the Finance Minister said, I will deal with it, and I think we wouldn't have to worry about whether it's going to happen on January 1st, because it wouldn't apply at all. [[If I heard?]] But I also prepared the structure of the performance. I divided it into ten chapters. It's possible that one of you might not be interested in a specific chapter. Well, I'll tell you ten chapters, it'll be a long shot. Once again, I believe that at least one chapter will interest you. First chapter. I want to address, surprisingly, the government's programming statement and somewhat surprisingly the overall tax burden in the Czech Republic. In the second part of my performance, I will show you the real obstruction in the House, which means that for over a year now our excellent proposal to abolish a super-gross wage has been here, and I will try to convince you to discuss it urgently. On the third point, I will address what we consider to be the biggest mistake in the draft tax package, the 509, and this is the proposal to tax the technical reserves of insurance companies. I'll do the fourth block gambling. I've got a sub-chapter I called the účtenkovka. Maybe I'd go to the bathroom so I don't go the way I did the plan. I read today that we have a player who is able to send 11,000 receipts a month to the receipt. It wasn't me, it was the press. That means 350 receipts a day, which means one in four minutes day and night without sleep. And I didn't know that because I don't care about gambling. In the terms of the receipt is that in one day you can send only one receipt from one trader. So the secretary is so motivated by our citizens that the particular citizen is able to visit 350 different shops every day, get a receipt in each and send it to the draw. You find it funny, but that's actually 11,000 purchases a month, and I don't think that's healthy. And some of the voters of the ANO movement wrote to me why I call the Accountant a gambling game when there is no deposit. My argument is yes, the deposit is not there, but there is no doubt that addiction arises here. I don't know anyone in my neighborhood who would do 11,000 purchases a month. And I read that once there were even 12,000 purchases. When the reporters asked the Treasury what they were going to do about it, they said nothing, we're glad the citizens are interested in the Billing. So maybe the Minister increases the consumption of the population and VAT, I don't know, but I think it's pathological to have 350 receipts a day. And no one can talk me out of it. Maybe once a year, I don't know, 350 stores visit in one day anyway, I don't know. And that's still public holidays. Now imagine that it will come out more every day when it's a public holiday, when it's closed, or there's a limited number of open shops. But let's go to the programme statement of the Czech Government. It's a June 2018 document. I downloaded the file from vlada.cz if you are interested. I think the government MPs read it every morning so they know exactly what they're supposed to do in the House. And I am not going to read it whole, of course, just focusing on that part of the government's programming statement, which concerns the tax package, the House's Press 509. That means, from the 44 pages, I'm going to be dealing with just four sides, and in fact only four paragraphs from these four sides. I will always read to you what the government committed to last June. I didn't compare it to the first Babiš government, but I don't think there were that many changes. Maybe you guys threw in that cancellation period, which I think is the only one, otherwise it was a lot like that. [[13.00 hours]] We promote a stable and predictable tax environment. - That's what the ODS supports. I want to say good news for the government, we also support a stable and predictable tax environment. But now the key phrase is and I want to ask you how you meant it then or today: Changes in the system of tax laws will be implemented only by a few aggregate amendments - which is true - with sufficient delay in effectiveness. - Let's focus on this sentence sideways: with sufficient delay in effectiveness. Today's October 25th, we're doing about five and a quarter hours in third reading, including last week's, so we can't talk about obstruction yet. And even if it goes through today, let's model an example that doesn't happen, I think many of us like adult fairy tales, so Monday it goes to the Senate, Monday it doesn't, it's a public holiday, Tuesday or October 30, very likely the Senate will return it around 28-29. November, under the Rules of Procedure Act, we must have the press at least ten days before we discuss it. If everything goes perfectly and we approve today, we'll get to it sometime around 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th December, definitely in that week. Now let's imagine that after a few times the opposition's appearance, the government's majority will declare it, famously, win the majority, clap their hands, then go to Mr. President. Even if the President signed it on the same day, even though he has fifteen days to do it, but let's say the next day he signs it, according to the government's programming statement 13 or 14 days before a major change in many tax laws, there is sufficient delay in effectiveness. It's too bad you didn't put a maximum of 14 days in parentheses. Because it's really on interpretation, everyone under it imagines something different. Sufficient delay in effectiveness. I would expect - and let us not be strict - a period between three and six months, ideally six months, that this would have been approved sometime in the middle of the year, and it has been true since the New Year. I think if the tax changes weren't so significant, three months would be enough to adapt. Because there's a lot of talking about how this bookkeeping is a piece of cake, the accountant doesn't do anything anyway, he's just clicking on the software and he's doing it all on his own, right, check report, VAT, nothing's a problem if you have accounting software. It's not quite that simple, try you who have ever said it, try to charge sometimes, I highly recommend, I think then you will speak with more respect about this profession. The software also has to change sometimes, imagine. Those software companies have to respond to legislative changes, they have to test it. So it's not a matter of days to make the system work. However, the financial authority can then come up with at least three years' delay, i.e. the tax office may come sometime in December 2022 or January 2023 and penalize entrepreneurs that in January 2020 e.g. Something was wrong with the bill, a tax receipt or something like that. [[to be said 2002, 2003]] I'm sure it's not enough to delay efficiency... The first paragraph I quoted to you from the government's programming statement, in which the government objectively failed. Or, Madam Secretary, do you think that 14 days before the first January, if, ideally - and this is not the ideal case - if this were to pass, is sufficient time? I don't think so. In the next paragraph, you yourself approved: We will cancel the super gross wage on personal income tax and propose a new reduced rate of 19 percent of the gross wage. - It's the third time, it was in Sobotkův's government, in Andrej Babiš I and in Andrej Babiš II. The Roman numerals were supplied by the Czech government's website, not by me, just so we know, that's how those governments number when you look at the web. Madam Secretary - I don't know if it was a year ago, but many months ago, she said there was no political will to make it work. So if I come out of the assumption that the parties that form a government coalition and together create a government programming statement that is public, which can control not only the opposition, but, in particular, the voters that agree with it, if the government parties agree to it, we have exactly 93 Members of the Chamber of Deputies. Let's model the unlikely case that the Communists would vote against the government. We can't rule it out, they didn't sign the coalition treaty, they only have a contract with the ANO movement, as our colleagues from social democracy call us - we had nothing to do with it, the ANO movement entered into the contract with them. And I guess it's true. In that case, the government would lack 8 votes to enforce this item in the programming declaration. Responsiblely I say, there are 23 of them here. This is already being put together - and we are not the only ones - when I get to the next points, you will find that a colleague, Mrs Langšádlová, from another parliamentary club has actually proposed what is contained in the government's programming statement - so there is at least a constitutional majority here to approve it. Yes, of course, we're proposing a different rate. We're proposing a rate of 15, not 19, after the abolition of a super-gross wage, that's true, we don't agree with the government most of the time. But for us, a small tax reduction is better than no tax reduction. So it's not that there's either going to be a tax cut on our terms, it's going to be at point 2 of my act where I'm going to try to convince you. Even if it doesn't pass, we are ready to support the abolition of the supergross wage at the rate of 19 percent, which actually means a reduction in the income tax rate by about 1.1 percent. If you convert it from that supergross wage of 15 percent, you get about 20.1 percent of the gross wage of today's... Where is the implementation of this item in the Government's programming declaration? Nothing in six years. So this is the second paragraph of the Government's programming statement concerning the tax package and what is not in it, even though the government has committed itself to it. On the same page number 5 of the programming statement is the last paragraph, which is not bad, could be ambitious, but if the government no longer wants to reduce taxes as a whole, at least I would appreciate that on paper it says: we respect the principle of fiscal neutrality. I understand that tax neutrality is equal to zero if I make changes to the tax system. Neutral. And we can have a debate about which political party wants to raise which taxes and compensate it by reducing other taxes, or rather. On the contrary. The Minister says repeatedly: if there is no tax package, I will not have additional revenue for the state budget. The government, knowingly, didn't do anything on those two points. He's deliberately violating his own programming statement here. And the Minister of Trade and Industry in the television debate will say without scruples: our government does not raise taxes. - And I say to him, what are we going to discuss on Friday? - Well, that's a tax package. But I insist we don't raise taxes. I'm gonna grab that glove. If we throw out all the articles on tax increases from this proposal, I'll say: the Minister was right, there is no tax increases, and then we can support it too... I'm afraid that's not how it was meant that only a government official was afraid to admit color on the air and say: we raise taxes, we increase the rate of redistribution... I can still get to the overall rate of redistribution. I think that for all mayors, mayors, deputy mayors, municipal representatives, for all chieftains, deputy generals, regional representatives is without doubt a favorable or promising paragraph of the Government's programming declaration on page 7: We will start a debate on the change in the budgetary determination of taxes so as to take account of the number of seniors living in the various municipalities in order to encourage municipalities to increase the quality of services intended for this group of residents as part of the distribution of tax revenue, which forms part of the municipal budget. - That's a paragraph that deserves support. The question is, we're halfway through the term. I do not rule out the opening of the debate. And if that was meant to start a debate and do nothing, then the government Members can make a fuss that this paragraph or this item of the Government's programming declaration is fulfilled. I'm afraid it isn't. None of the Mayors of the ODS I know has any information that the debate with the municipalities, the mayors, the regions, the captains are about to begin. However, even here the mayors and the chieftains sit, so we can ask them if the government is communicating with them any change in the budgetary determination of taxes. [[13.10 hours]] And the last point I chose from the government's programming statement, which is closely related to the press, is the last paragraph on page 7 of this statement, which I will read to you: we will carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the application of new regulation - I really must say that the official language is amazing, in quotes amazing, because those quotes aren't heard in the screen recording, I wouldn't want anyone to think that if they read the screen recording that I mean it - a comprehensive evaluation of the application of the new regulation. I think that the phrase is in itself telling how a normal world exists and then an official world. I don't know anyone who would put those five words together like that in a normal life. Unfortunately, I know a lot of bureaucrats who usually put them together like this and put them in their reason messages. But so well, let's take the government at its word, the government wanted to carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the application of the new regulation of gambling adopted in 2016 and on the basis of the acquired knowledge we may propose changes that will ensure effective regulation and management of gambling tax, especially Internet betting. In another press, I asked the Minister what happened to the players' register. That's when I got the answer that he was either ready or a public contract was announced. [[The Treasury Secretary is talking off the mic from the newsstand's desk.]] That was a long time ago, but it's not working yet. The register of players doesn't work three years later. So the register of players doesn't work, so the government couldn't carry out any comprehensive evaluation of the application of the new regulation, because if the government did a comprehensive evaluation of the application of the new regulation, it's definitely part of the explanatory statement. It is only after this evaluation that the government itself says: eventually we will propose changes. Let us look at the House's 509 press. No evaluation, no debate over applications and benefits or minuses of the new gambling law, and yet the government is proposing to change the taxes on gambling. And I will not repeat the words that some previous speakers said at the beginning of today about how, in our opinion, the government has wrongly chosen sectors where it wants to raise taxes and where it does not. And the last sentence, I would say, is really smiling in light of what we consider to be the greatest threat to this House press: we will support the development of the financial market and strengthen its resilience. - Our dear government strengthens the resilience of the financial market by subsequently taxing it. Well, what do you call strengthening resistance? The government is doing the exact opposite of what she promised. So I have selected from the programming statement five tasks that the government itself has given itself in the area of taxation and on which the ANO movement and the Social Democrats agreed, otherwise they would not have signed such a programming statement. And maybe the ANO movement agreed with the Communist Party, I really don't know. Three of the five things the government does exactly the opposite and didn't touch two. This is the real state of the evaluation of these five tasks of the Government's programming declaration. Who doesn't believe me, let him find it, it's really on the website of the Czech government vlada.cz . Some of the colleagues have already talked about it, and that is the overall tax burden. The Minister here spoke in today's debate and said: we have collectively reduced taxes by 93 billion. How much, Madam Secretary? [[Once again, the Treasury Secretary is speaking off the microphone from the newsletter's desk.]] I'm sorry, I didn't mean to take your $5 billion. 98, no, 93. 98,8 + 3.4, which is 102.2. Including this year or next year, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u135	Members shall, according to the Rules of Procedure, speak to each other on a microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u136	I am speaking to the Minister, Mr Vice-President, who is not a Member yet, as far as I know. So once I asked the secretary to do it, she said to me, but I can talk to you directly. What isn't can be, so you have to try running, then we'll see. 98,8, we've reduced taxes. And I'm gonna take a look-- you've been saying cumulatively since 2005, right? Compiled tax quota according to the Ministry of Finance material, notebook B. 2014 did not make any changes in the law because they have just come to the government, but well. [[The Minister of Finance has repeatedly spoken off the microphone from the rapporteur's desk.]] And I hear that in 2014, it's not your fault that Rusnok did it when we criticized the 2014 budget, but so be it. It gets worse. The longer the season, the smaller the annual savings. And then how do we explain, and I have to come out of the data since 2015, because since 2014, the Ministry of Finance hasn't provided us with the data. Book B of the Green Components of the draft state budget, page 10, Table No. 8 development of the tax quota according to the budget composition in the Czech Republic for 2015, 2016, 2017 - 2018 is a fact logically - and for 2019 and 2020 is a prerequisite according to the state budget. So in 2015, the combined tax quota was 32,6 %, in 2016 33,6 %, in 2017 34,2 %, in 2018 35,0 % - this is all a fact - this year it is an estimate, logically, we do not have a closed financial year, 35,2 %, and next year an estimate by the Ministry of Finance of 35.9 %. In other words, the combined tax quota will increase by 3.3 % in six years from 2015 to 2020 according to the Ministry of Finance figures, which is more than 10 percent. By 10% you increase the rate of redistribution in the Czech Republic in just six years. Those are the numbers that convince you that you can fence words here, that you've reduced taxes. Some certainly do, I will not dispute that, but in sum you have increased the compound tax quota by more than 3% over six years, which is more than 10 percent of the increase in redistribution. I remind you of the Ministry of Finance material, not the opposition. There's a table number right below. 9, which talks about tax revenues in billions of crowns. These days, we're having a gunfight or a political dispute as to whether we should first discuss a problem-free increase in the parental contribution on which there is agreement or, first, tax changes in the tax package. This is a legitimate political conflict. The argument used by the government majority says: we need to approve the tax package first, because it has an impact on the state budget and we have already drawn the figures from the tax package into the draft state budget - which is partly true. When I look at Table No. 9 and I'll look at the last line of this table, so there's a digital tax. The contribution to the state budget in 2020 is 2.1 billion. Crowns. Do we have a digital tax in the tax package? We don't. We are able to, you are able to vote in favour of the budget, even though you do not have an approved law to add 2.1 billion.? Yes. I see no difference in whether you will vote on the state budget if you do not have a legislative approval of minus 2, or minus 12 - 1,609 billion. expenditure. [[13.20 hours]] One percent is approximately 16 billion. Let's leave the big numbers and focus on the fractions. Do you know anyone who would have a big problem giving up one percent less? I'm not saying a problem, I'm saying a big problem one percent less. We may find a few of these, but it's certainly not a case of state and state budget. So the debate about not being able to vote on raising parental income because other taxes are not being raised is dishonest. 113 billion. The government estimates that it will have higher tax collection - or higher income, tax collection is about 50 billion, higher revenue in the state budget next year. If we had the tax package, and I think about 10 billion. is planned for 2020, if we crossed it out, it wasn't there, the ideal condition, so poor government will only have plus 103 billion. against last year. You can't really write that, it's a draft budget! Nobody can really mean that, and I'm sure the secretary wouldn't say that if she was 10 billion. less available that it would not write a draft budget. By the way, in June, Madam Secretary, you were 20 billion. less. Then over the summer, you raised the revenue by 20 billion. So the original government proposal, which was discussed by the government and which the Social Democratic Ministers did not support, is true, so he was counting on spending 20 billion. higher than those in this draft budget. I just want to document it, and I don't want to have that debate about the legitimacy of which expenses, etc., I just want to document that on the 10 billion. It is not worth the draft state budget next year, nor is it worth the vote to increase the parental contribution, because it will certainly turn out positively in the Chamber of Deputies. I would say that the Chamber of Deputies in 98, perhaps even more than a percentage of the votes, will approve the proposal to increase the parental contribution. So it seems pointless to delay it, but I think we've found a solution that could be approved by next Friday at the latest. When we look at the other numbers and compare the draft budget, respectively. approved budget for 2019, available, at least us from the opposition, only numbers as of 30. 9. from the budget committee, we have the numbers to 19. 10th, so we can see how tax revenues are developing this year. Not only tax revenue, but now I'm talking about tax revenue. I think, Madam Secretary, although I said last year that the revenue is estimated realistically, if you recall our debate that I said so, I just don't think so this year about the draft budget. I think you're too optimistic about some taxes or levies, and that's the 20 summer billion. I understand that you can't just put it in the sum that you have to, but that's gonna judge us over time. [[Nesroz.]] We can say that next year in October, whether the tax revenue in the next year is being implemented according to the plan, the approved budget, or not. However, the key message is that in six years, the combined tax quota increased by 3.3 %, which is more than 10 percent of the distribution - redistribution. Redistributing. Sorry about the slip. Redistribution - more. Now I want to focus, and that's a block of one of my performances behind us, and now I want to focus on point two, and that's the proposal to cancel a super gross wage. I will say once again in the programme statement that the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, the first government of Andrej Babiš, and the second government of Andrej Babiš. Nothing. Nothing at all. I would expect either the government to cut it out of its programming statement, because it will say: we have come to the conclusion that we do not actually want to do it, and it will somehow justify it and it will not be there. Or the Minister's statement is that there is no political support for this. Then my logical question is, Madam Secretary - who doesn't give political support to abolishing a super-gross wage? Is it a majority or a minority in the Chamber of Deputies? If it is a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, I understand that, such a proposal could be tabled, but it would probably not have a chance of success. In my estimate, there is a majority, even without the Social Democrats, without those who signed the abolition of the super-gross wage in the government's programming statement. There is a safe majority, a safe majority! that could approve it, and at least 1.1 percentage point reduce personal income tax. Like I said earlier, it's not an ideal condition, but it's better than nothing. And we would support such a proposal. I would like to draw your attention to House Press 254. Compare the numbers - there in 509 parentheses - third reading, here we have the print 254 - no reading yet. We have it at first reading somewhere in that long list of items of parliamentary proposals. This press 8 was delivered to the MPs. 8. 2018. That's a pretty good thing to remember. So it's been more than 14 months since we've been helping the government and suggesting that one of the government's programming statements be met. Of course, otherwise, the correct one, but if the government MEPs proposed a different rate at second reading, not 15 or 19, as I have already announced, we would also support that. I'm not gonna read you those paragraphs, everyone can find that, but since you didn't give us a chance to discuss this bill, we tried last Friday, and I have to admit, Madam Secretary, it's an effective obstruction - 14 months of not letting the law go. It's really effective, and we have a lot to learn. Imagine that we would discuss this bill in the third reading of 14 months. That would be great, because it wouldn't actually apply to the 2020 tax year or 2021. We do not plan to discuss this press in the third reading of 14 months. Just so that, if we're going to be someone, and I'm not saying blame, obstruction is a standard part of the House of Deputies meeting. Sometimes it's used by a government majority, more often by a minority. Logically obstructions and tools are for the protection of minorities, so I don't see anything wrong with it, so if someone is in opposition is doing obstruction, or sometimes I say that the government is doing obstruction, then we're assessing our appearance in the Chamber of Deputies in some way. But everything is within the law and everything is within the practice and we who have experienced both sides of governance, that is, when you are part of the coalition or part of the opposition, you know that the instruments are to be balanced as far as possible, because the unilateral advantage of the majority or minority does not do well. And so criticized, let me just remind you, a limited time for third reading. You say, you abuse it, only ten hours a week, that's what you do, so let me just remind you that the government of social democracy, which at the time had a majority of one vote, was able to concentrate those votes into specific voting hours. I think that's quite a logical thought. I can't hold or I can, but very hard the whole week of the meeting, the fragile majority of one vote in the vote to push the point, the elimination of the point, the assignment of the point, etc. And the ODS was against that time, which was in opposition. The majority of the government put it that way. And as it happens sometimes, the instrument of a political duel from the Chamber of Deputies, which was supposed to serve the government's majority, the majority thought that it would simplify their lives, practice showed that the instrument was better suited to opposition than to the government's majority. This is merely a reminder of all possible considerations about the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, when we are relatively conservative, because we are trying to assess this from both sides, and it is possible that the proposal that at the moment seems advantageous to the opposition will in practice be advantageous to the government majority and vice versa. [[13.30 hours]] There. Let us go to the Parliamentary Press 254 of 8 August. At 8.37 hours, you all received it. I would like to introduce you to the very principles of this proposal, which, by the way, the principles of this proposal are contained in one of the amendments. Now I'm not aware if I said those ten chapters at the beginning. I don't think so, so I'll read them to you quickly first. We're in chapter two. First, the government's declaration was a general tax burden. In the second House print 254, in the third award of technical provisions, gambling, electromobility, tobacco tax, cadastral fee, gas tax, amendments, comments and opinions of our club, summary and conclusion. So we're at point 2. And I would like to introduce you to the main principles and the reasons why we filed this press 14 months ago. We want your support. We even want to support the amendment, which is part of the press, which is modified. However, I maintain that principle. [[Noise in the left side of the hall.]] According to legislative rules, every bill must contain an explanatory note...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u137	Ambassador, I understand. And I'll ask my colleagues. I think it's... Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u138	Thank you. We solved the nonverbal communications. Thank you for understanding. So according to the legislative rules, every bill must contain an explanatory memorandum, a general and a special part. I'm gonna skip, I'm gonna say, the paragraphs, I'm gonna skip the special part, and I'm gonna pass out, I'm gonna quote incorporation into the existing version of the law. All of this can be traced online. Part of the general part of the explanatory memorandum must be, and so does our press, the assessment of the legal situation in force, the main principles of the proposed legislation and the necessity of the proposed legislation. I would say that, in general, a weakness, and now I will say all the parliamentary proposals, all the bills, is that it is very often forgotten the necessity of the proposed legal standard. Then we'll get into this fight, those specific sections, like, five or six, a day or two. And we forget to debate the first one whether this proposed legislation is necessary. So this proposed legislation is really necessary, I can assure you, now I'm going to give you the facts. The draft law aims to abolish the institute called. supergross wages and replace it with a simpler system of one gross wage tax rate of 15 per cent. As a result, the growth of net employees' wages will mean an average of 7 percent, simplification and clarification of the tax system in the field of income tax. Employee with a gross wage of 30,000 a month - we have to tolerate the fact that the material is old year and a half, which means it's lower than the average wage today, so we're talking about employees with about 4,000. lower income than average wage. A staff member with a gross monthly salary of 30 grand will pay CZK 1 530 less against the current situation after the adoption of such a bill on income tax per month, which represents a savings per year, or a tax reduction of CZK 18 360. On the one hand, it is a public budget outage of this amount. On the other hand, it is income that remains an active person who earns the CZK 30,000 a month. The same proposal, which differs only from the amount of the tax rate, contained a government bill amending certain tax laws, currently House print number 206. You see how old it is. Madam Secretary, if we remember, that's last year's tax package, I'd say. This was also the bill that changed taxes in various areas, House press 206. Let's do it again. Madam Secretary hasn't been able to record what I'm talking about. The same proposal, i.e. the proposal to abolish the supergross wage, which differs only from the tax rate - we have fifteen, proposed nineteen - contained a government bill amending some tax laws, it was House print number 206, last year's tax package in the version that was sent to the interdepartmental commentary procedure on February 2, 2018, I have here the reference number. This means that the Ministry of Finance proposed the abolition of the supergross wage institute and a new rate of 19 percent in last year's tax package. By the way, we will vote on a similar proposal at the same rate in the third reading of the House's 509 press. It must be admitted that at that time the government ruled without the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, so it had no secured majority in the Chamber of Deputies. This part of the amendment, however, was removed from the government bill during the commentary procedure, although the programme statement by the Government of Andrej Babiš the Roman one - I added - contains a commitment: we will cancel the super gross wage on personal income tax. I do not fully understand this now, because it was the monochrome government of the ANO movement that promised it, and yet in an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, where there was not a single social democrat, they changed it and dismissed it from the proposal. The same thing she had in her programming statement, as I already said in Bohuslav Sobotka's government. [[Discussion at the newsstand.]] Mr. Ambassador, it's really not pleasant. Try to get out sometime, try speaking in the Chamber of Deputies through the President, I will do the same to you. You'll see that it's really not pleasant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u139	So, Mr. Ambassador, do you want me to set you straight, or is that enough? [[- No, you don't.]] Okay. Please continue. And I'm asking my colleagues to stay calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u140	Perhaps you could tell the rapporteur to keep insulting remarks. Maybe it would be nice if I didn't have to say it. I'm not really curious about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u141	I understand that. Unfortunately, I can't hear it here, so I can't comment. [[Mr Stanjura: Be glad you didn't hear, Mr Vice-President. Be glad.]] I guess I'm glad you did, too. However, I would ask that we communicate with each other, speakers, through a microphone, not through notes or shouting off the record. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u142	Thank you. The concept of a supergross wage was introduced in order to raise employees' awareness of the employer's total cost of paying wages. This goal has been met. It is possible to return to the simpler concept of gross wage taxation. Now I'm going to recite to you not from our explanatory report, but from the Treasury material. From the time Minister Schillerová was there, so she didn't inherit the material, the material was produced by her office at the time of her operation. And we identify with it. Then we're still criticizing the secretary or the ministry. We identify with it. I am now quoting this to you: With effect from the 2008 tax period, Act No. 261/2017 on the stabilisation of public budgets, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the Act on the stabilisation of public budgets - for President Faltýnek, this is the Topolánek backpack, which is a significant tax reduction of 80 billion. per year. On the basis of the law, a uniform rate of personal income tax is applied, 15 per cent for both so-called "natural persons'. the general tax base, as well as in the case of the tax base collected by deduction at the special tax rate. For example, if we wanted to imagine something under it, if the owner paid his share of the profit, it was taxed by 15 percent as a tax levied by a deduction. The adjustment to this single rate was accompanied by other changes, such as the change in the tax base on dependent activities, the base of the supergross wage and, in the case of business taxpayers, the income tax of natural persons by introducing the tax non-appreciation of compulsory social and health insurance premiums. The sub-base for dependent activity income is then income from dependent activity increased by an amount corresponding to the social security premium and contribution to the state employment policy and the general health insurance premium, which the employer is obliged to pay for his employees under other legislation. - I'm still quoting the Treasury material. [[13.40 hours]] This so-called compulsory insurance employer increases income from dependent activities, which are included in the tax base collected by deduction according to the special tax rate or from which an advance is paid under Section 38h of the Income Tax Act. For a taxpayer with income from a separate activity, expenditure on compulsory social and health insurance is excluded from tax expenditure. With effect from the 2013 tax period - originally only until 2015, I follow up on our debate, who increased taxes and who extended it, the period - writes the Ministry of Finance - by Act No. 500/2000 Coll. as amended, Section 16a of the Income Tax Act introduced a solidarity increase in personal income tax of 7 per cent of the excess income. The tax shall be increased if, during the relevant tax period, the sum of income attributable to the dependent activity tax sub-base is the gross income, not the supergross wage, and the separate activity tax sub-base exceeds 48 times the average wage during this tax period. - You know, the average wage is actually published monthly, or it's determined monthly, we're talking monthly average wage, the 48 times that can evoke someone that it's a person who takes 48 times more a month, so just for explanation, it's a person who takes four times as much as the average wage. It is then burdened with the solidarity mark-up. Not the one who's 48 times more. I guess there aren't many of them. Similarly, for a taxpayer with income from dependent activity on the social security ceiling, a solidarity tax increase of 7 per cent of the excess income under Section 38ha of the Income Tax Act applies. In addition, the Ministry of Finance suggests and writes: In the Income Tax Act it is proposed to abolish the concept of a so-called supergross wage and to determine that the basis of income tax on dependent activities will be gross wage, that is...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u143	I understand. There's been a lot of noise. I will ask for peace in the hall so that the Member may proceed. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u144	In the Income Tax Act, the Ministry of Finance is proposing to abolish the concept of the so-called supergross wage and to establish that the basis of income tax on dependent activities will be gross wages, i.e. taxable income from dependent activities. It is also proposed to abolish the so-called solidarity tax increase and the solidarity tax increase for the advance. In other words, last February, the Minister and her office proposed not only to cancel the super gross wage and to replace it with 19 percent, in which we differ, they even proposed to cancel the solidarity premium. I'm in. That's a great suggestion, Madam Secretary. Too bad you're not pushing him anymore. You have political support for that, and you have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies for that, and although I have not been able to consult with our senators, I am sure that the majority would also be found in the Chamber of Deputies, that is in the Senate. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance, not the opposition ODS, continues: Request for cancellation so called. Supergross wages and a solidarity tax increase result from the government's programming statement by Andrej Babiš - that's what I put there, so I just identified the Prime Minister who was in office at the time. The concept of the so-called supergross wage makes it very difficult to determine the tax base for taxpayers on income from dependent activity and is referred to as discriminatory because the tax burden on these taxpayers is higher than the tax burden on other taxpayers. - It's such a complicated sentence. I'll try to explain it. If anyone has an income of 30 grand. Gross monthly, and we stay with the amount we use in the explanatory memorandum, that's 360 thousand. CZK per year, but the tax base will not be 360 thousand. CZK, but 360 thousand. times 1.34, respectively. This year it will be 1.338, and of which 15 per cent tax is paid after counting the deductible item to the taxpayer and other deductible items. Let us forget these for simplification and for interpretation of this example and for affirming the view of the Ministry of Finance that this can be discriminatory. Then it's a self-governing self-governing machine that's going to receive 360 thousand. CZK per year, that means just as the employee's gross income and his personal income tax will be 15 percent of the 360 thousand, and not of the amount of about 480 thousand. These were the arguments put forward by the Ministry of Finance in February 2018 in the draft law and sent to the comment procedure. I might be interested, Madam Secretary, in retrospect, that you will know, or your office will know, which ministries managed by ministers for the ANO movement were opposed, because there was no one else in that government other than ministers nominated by the YES movement. In terms of comparison with tax systems - the Ministry of Finance writes - in terms of comparison with tax systems of other European Union countries and beyond, this is a non-standard procedure for determining the tax base, as there are significant differences between domestic social security insurance, public health insurance insurance and foreign legal insurance systems. Similarly inappropriate and non-standard is a solidarity tax increase. We have made our work a little easier, there is no reason not to admit it, and we have used our explanatory report as the main arguments material and arguments of the Ministry of Finance. So I completely don't understand the fact that it's been blocked for 14 months, we're in agreement with the secretary, with her office, and we can't even get it to the first reading. What makes us different is an estimate of the impact on the state budget. We think if our proposal went over that overall impact on public budgets - that sounds so ugly, doesn't it? - a negative impact on public budgets. So let me say this positively: the citizens would be left with 55 billion. more. That's the same thing when we say: there's going to be a budget cut of 55 billion. I mean, what interests the citizens more? The first or second sentence? They're both true. My colleagues and I are leaning towards saying that the citizens will remain 55 billion. more if our bill passes. And the Treasury and the government don't think so, and they think, and that's good news for the citizens that they're left with 70 billion, not 55 billion. Now I don't know if it's criticism or commendation. Then I'll introduce you to the government's position. I don't really know whether it's critical or commendable. I think it's good news for taxpayers. We were a little more conservative, we don't want to argue, we don't have so many officials, we don't have the supercomputers, the experience, the models, but okay, if it were 70 billion, we'd just be happy. Now let's argue about how many of these 55 billion. or 70 billion. comes another way to the state budget. We think that it can be up to 20 billion, with it being compensated by increased VAT collection, excise taxes and also higher income tax collection. We can have a debate about that, we don't have to agree. But if we let our taxpayers have 70 billion. Every year, we'd be almost as good as in 2008, when they left them 80 billion. CZK a year. Of course, the truth is, and this is what the government points out, but we also point out in the bill that income tax is a shared tax, and when we talk about 55 billion. or 70 billion, which would remain to citizens, the less would not only have a state budget, about 70 percent, I say grossly, from that amount, about 9 percent would have less regions, and the rest would have fewer municipalities and cities. As with every bill, this proposal has been submitted to the Parliamentary Institute to examine whether it is in line with European legislation, we have the House press. Conclusion - I will not read you the detailed conclusion: the bill does not conflict with the law of the European Union. [[13.50 hours]] On this issue, 254/0, from which I quoted part of you, the government adopted the position we have in the Houses of the Press 254/1. I smiled. Because you know when the government took that position? September 4th, but not this year, but last year. So the government has discussed this draft law on 4 September 2018 and has surprisingly adopted a disagreeable position for us, especially for the following reasons. The beginning is quite promising for the opposition. The government writes in its opinion: the government considers the abolition of the so-called Supergross wages for a positive step towards simplifying the system of taxation of income from dependent activities, and the principle of this adjustment is also contained in the government's programming declaration. - That's what I'm talking about. So the government itself considers this proposal, which is also part of the 509 press as one of the amendments, to be a positive step towards simplification. And the government is against me for petty reasons, and I will read them to you, and we can assess on one bowl of those scales the simplification of the tax system, savings, tax reductions for all employees, and on the other hand, the reasons I am now quoting to you, which outweighed the positive effects of the government: "The proposal lacks the necessary adjustment of the basic rate of personal income tax to eliminate the budgetary effects of the proposed adjustment." That's not missing, that's our political opinion, we want to cut taxes. So it's not an omission or a mistake, it's a different political view of how high taxes are supposed to be especially for our employees. And then the government is right to write, and I've already quoted here that according to the government's programming statement, the rate is to be 19 percent of the gross wage. The second thing that the government is accusing our bill is: a solidarity tax increase is abolished in the bill without reservations. - That's true, that's also part of our program, and it's even in line with the opinion of the Minister and the Ministry of Finance of February 2018. It was canceled there, too, without a refund. The government expects the introduction of a second tax zone of a personal income tax rate of 23 % - this is indeed in line with the government's programming declaration. However, it is not a lack of this law, it is actually a political dispute about whether we have only one or two rates and how high they are to be. The proposal does not contain an adjustment to the tax burden on the taxpayers of the income tax on natural persons with income from dependent activity and the income from separate activities following the necessary increase in the basic rate of tax, e.g. the possibility of applying part of the premiums paid. - In this case, don't get mad at me, I think her office was preparing this position when it comes to a tax proposal. You're missing something in that bill that can't be there. You want to raise the basic rate to 19, that means businessmen from 15 to 19, and you say right, if we give 19 employees and businessmen, we have to compensate the businessmen for 4 percent. But in our proposal there is no increase to 19, so if you didn't mean that the businessmen should have less than 15, we weren't so brave, but if it were a reservation of government towards this proposal, I'm sure it was. Do we understand what the problem is? If we raise the basic rate, I'd lower taxes on the employees, but at the same time I'd raise them to the tradesmen if the basic rate on the gross wage was 19. And we really don't want that. So that's actually not what's missing from the proposal, because our proposal doesn't increase trade tax, as promised by the government in its programming statement. And the last indent, which then all of a sudden has the numbering of paragraphs on the other hand, blames us for the legislative inaccuracies and errors, and here I have to say for the petitioner that we accept the criticisms. I was just explaining why the opposition without a team of lawyers is unable to write a legislatively purely more complex amendment to the bill. Without a doubt, these are all things that could be done as part of a second reading if there really was a will to reduce taxes on employees. Unfortunately, it exists only on paper in the government's programming statement and does not exist in reality. Then the government is arguing with us, I've already said that, about the amount of impact plus the legislative technical deficiencies that I accept. Now we can answer the question of why the government majority has been discussing this bill for more than 14 months. I don't completely understand. We agree with the government on the principle of abolition, we do not agree on the gross wage rate. In doing so, we guarantee that we would support the government's number as well. So it's a dispute, but it's not insurmountable, and it even brings voices. We have legitimately acknowledged the technical comments, so I do not understand at all what the problem is and why the government's negative position arose. We will certainly return to that in block nine of my speeches, when we will discuss the specific amendments that were read at second reading. And I'm really looking forward to hearing from the Minister about where the political will to adopt the law was lost, who in February and March 2018, who in the Yes Ministers was against this bill and why we are not able, or are not able or willing to find agreement with us, because we are prepared to change the proposal in your parameters - to reduce taxes by as much as you propose, and not us. So this is where I'd expect a fairly quick run. Moreover, the Social Democrats signed it, too, so there is no prospect of opposition from the Czech Social Democratic Party. And it's a shame, because it would be good news for taxpayers. I have such a suspicion that this year's draft state budget will be the reason for this year's budget projections, medium-term outlooks for the coming years. The idea that the Minister and the Government as a whole would have to draw up a draft budget that would be 35 by our figures or 50 billion. According to the Ministry of Finance, lower on the income side, with this money remaining to citizens, it is probably scary enough that the government is giving up its program point. So please tell me it wasn't a good idea that you wrote it three times in the government's programming statement that you were wrong, that you needed the money, that you know better than the citizens, what to do with the money, that you might send some of it back to the selected group, maybe somebody more than he actually paid. All this is possible, but do not confuse the public, but therefore the opposition in your programming statement that you want to cancel a super gross wage. You don't really want to cancel it. I don't understand this, Madam Secretary, but I'd be interested in your personal opinion, personally as Treasury Secretary, when you proposed to cancel that solidarity bonus a year and a half ago, which I appreciate and welcome if you don't push it, because it's not...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u145	Ambassador, I can hear it, too. I'd ask my colleagues to stay calm. Today we can act until 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u146	I am really interested in whether the Minister of Finance has the opinion that this needs to be canceled, and I understand that, for example, There is no consensus on this within the coalition. We all understand that, because we can imagine that it is difficult for the Social Democrats to support the abolition of the second income tax rate, or you have abandoned this opinion, which is therefore truly pleasing to me. [[14.00 hours]] I would sum up block 2 of my discussion paper to House Press 509. We will support the amendment to abolish the supergross wage, although it is not in ODS parameters. We have not tabled our own amendment in our parameters because there is a special bill here for more than 14 months. I have a request to the heads of government clubs to allow the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on days when the budget, let it be quite clear, to discuss the proposal to reduce employees' taxation at first reading, and we will get the majority support and it will go into committees and we will debate -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u147	Mr Member, the time has passed to discuss third readings, so I must interrupt you, as I must interrupt the debate on this point. Yes, I see the application. I have a few other things here, so I would like to inform you immediately that Mr Veselý is voting with the replacement card number 19 and apologizing to Mrs Krutáková, who apologizes to us from 13:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons, and Mr Lukáš Kolářík apologized at 13:14 until the end of today's meeting for family reasons. Now, please, Prime Minister Faltýnek outside the priority points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u148	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Allow me to make a procedural proposal to interrupt the meeting by Wednesday 30. 10 to 9 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u149	Yes. For the record, I'll say I closed point one so we know. Interrupted, sorry, interrupted point one, physically closed, surgically interrupted. There's a checkout request. I'll check you out. I'll also call my colleagues to the O.R. Mr Ferjenčík has no preferential right. [[Member Ferjenčík explains off the microphone.]] Please. Counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u150	I have a counterproposal for my colleague Faltýnek's proposal, if I have heard correctly. He suggested it on Wednesday 9 o'clock, I propose a counterproposal for Wednesday 11 o'clock so we can catch the parent first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u151	Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. Let me just get this straight. Mr Faltýnek proposes that this meeting be adjourned, i.e. the 36th meeting, until Wednesday 30. 10. Nine o'clock. And Mr Ferjenčík proposes an interruption within 11 hours. Counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u152	Yes. That's right. I think we can come up with a procedure for this proper meeting to be interrupted by Wednesday by 9:00 p.m. and we've had time to discuss parenting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u153	President Vondráček with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u154	I'd set it right. Of course, the proposal is voteable, but we would vote at 11 o'clock. There is no way that we would continue a meeting from 9 o'clock, because this is, as far as I know, a committee week, so there would be nothing going on between 9 and 11 o'clock. We'd only start two hours later. As far as parents are concerned, I ordered an emergency meeting on Friday 1. 11:00 p.m. Just to make sure you know what you're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-25-ps2017-036-01-001-001.u155	Yes. I thank the President for his clarification. I also thank you for reminding us that this is a committee week where we should not normally act as the House, but the House is a souvenir and can decide, of course. So if there are no other comments on this, I'm going to re-create my colleagues. I believe you have already signed up with your cards and we will vote. First, we will vote on the counter-proposal, that is, to interrupt this meeting until next Wednesday, 30. 10 to 11 o'clock. If this does not pass, we will vote on the original proposal, i.e. at 9 o'clock. Mr. Chairman Stanjura reporting? No. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the interruption by 11 o'clock. Who's against it? Thank you. The vote number 4 includes 131 Members and Members, for 47, against 80. This proposal has not been adopted. That was Mr Ferjenčík's counterproposal. And now the original proposal by President Faltýnek to interrupt the 36th meeting by Wednesday 30. 10. Nine o'clock. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 5, 132 Members and Members are registered, for 83, against 32. The motion was accepted. Therefore, in accordance with this decision of the House, I am interrupting this meeting by 30. 10. 9:00 p.m. when we will continue the adjourned debate. I would like to remind you, before I completely conclude today's meeting day, that on Monday, October 28th, there will be an open day on the premises of the House, so please empty your drawer and desk materials so that you do not lose them. Have a nice weekend.
