ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u1	291. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of eight responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. The first is the question of Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on the Senate resolution on duplication of controls. It's the House Press 482. It's an interpellation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. The discussion of this response has been suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who is present, so I welcome him among us and launch the debate. Mrs Kovářová is interested in the performance. So please. And I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u2	Dear Prime Minister. I am so glad that you have found time in your challenging program and arrived at written interpelation, and I firmly believe that you will stay for oral interpelation as well. Well, thank you for your presence. However, I must say that my dissatisfaction with your response was delivered to Members on 15 May this year, six months ago. I then intersected you on the Senate's resolution on duplication of controls, and in my interview, I said that the Senate accepted this interview 26. 5. 2016, to the House of Press 287, in which it calls on the Government to eliminate duplication of controls. This removal should be the first step before the adoption of the Government Act, which extends the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. Specifically, the Senate recommends that the Government of the Czech Republic submit a proposal to amend the Constitution concerning the extension of the powers of the Supreme Office at the same time as the proposal to remove duplicate checks on the system. I asked you, Prime Minister, how the government intends to implement this resolution, what steps you will take and whether you will be able to implement it before adopting a government amendment. In your reply, I was told that an analysis of the public funds control system, including the proposed measures, was carried out - and that was all in the reply. And in the annex, I received a system of control of public funds and an analysis of the system of control of local authorities. [[9.10 hours]] In this analysis - I assume that you agree with this - it is stated that the duplication of controls is closely linked to the fact that the local self-governing whole draws on the subsidy. The number of control bodies is higher if it is a subsidy from European Union funds. It is also noted that this is a so-called irresistible duplication. In response to this, I would just say that municipalities are dissatisfied with how many checks they participate in their municipal or municipal offices each year. This is not just about checks on subsidies. It was also reported in this analysis that the Union of Towns and Municipalities does not see reasons for dissatisfaction and claims that municipalities are rather welcome to examine their management because they do not see this primarily as a control activity but as methodological assistance. There was probably a misinterpretation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u3	Madame, I will interrupt you and ask your colleagues to be calm, possibly to transfer other meetings outside the O.R. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u4	I believe that there has probably been a misinterpretation of the expression of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, because municipalities welcome as methodological assistance checks coming from regions, not precisely checks concerning subsidies, so there is probably some discrepancy and a poor understanding, because you are talking in an analysis that controls concern only subsidy issues. There are also a number of issues that lead to the fact that municipalities can be somehow overloaded by checks. In this analysis it is stated that the reason for assessing the contribution for breach of budgetary discipline by the Financial Administration authorities may sometimes be that the subsidy providers are under-led. So I would like to hear the answer to whether there has actually been any change and improvement in the methodology for subsidy providers, because it also affects the applicants and affects the quality of their applications and, where appropriate, the entire subsidy process. It is further stated in this report that the public administrative control carried out by the Ministry of Finance is a relic and, given that the same control is carried out by the subsidy provider, it is not justified. The solution is a conceptual change consisting of the transition of the Ministry of Finance from the control of applicants and recipients of public financial support to the control of the system of providers with the exception of local authorities. Then the analysis talks about partial duplications and says that other duplications occur as a result of a partial overlap of the controlled agenda. Other checks are also listed here, which municipalities must "stop" such as control of public procurement, control of public financial support or control of compliance with the resolution of the municipal law. The analysis says that these duplications can be gradually eliminated by coordinating control bodies. In the analysis there is also an assessment of the measures resulting from the analysis. There are several laws that the government has prepared. I can only mention that this was a report on the evaluation of the system of control of local authorities or a change in the powers of the Ministry of Finance. The conceptual change should consist in the transition from the control of applicants and recipients of public financial support to the audit of the provider's system, the so-called supreme audit, the determination of the obligation of state authorities to insert information on checks into the information system of the Ministry of Finance, as well as periodic evaluation of the quality of the outputs of the audit bodies by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of documents from the NKP information system (?) in cooperation with other supervisory authorities. The analysis also says that bills have been submitted, but the Parliament of the Czech Republic has not adopted these laws. Of course, it says flow 2017. The analysis also talks about other measures that have not been implemented, but they are partial measures because the laws have not been adopted. Since the Czech, Moravian and Silesian municipalities are not against checks and, as I mentioned, some checks really consider positive with regard to the methodological leadership of the regions, however, the municipalities also note that the checks on average need to be three for one subsidy - that is the average. I also assumed that if the government was trying to implement the Senate resolution, it would put forward laws - two years ago - that had not been adopted, it would continue to do so. [[There's constant restlessness in the hall.]] I asked you, Minister, how the government intends to implement this resolution. So I would ask you to answer the question of whether the government will continue its efforts to enforce the laws that are responding to the Senate resolution. Next, I asked you what steps you would take -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u5	Madam, I will interrupt you again. This place is buzzing like a beehive. I would ask colleagues who do not want to follow the debate to move their discussions into the foyer. I'll call you to a possible vote later. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u6	The third question was whether you could make it before the government amendment was adopted. I can answer that last question myself - you won't be able to make it. This is also apparent from the draft measure that I also received from you, when the issue of control of local authorities was included in the upcoming concept of public administration development, but it is up to 2021+, i.e. in the next parliamentary term. In what you say will be implemented, there is no talk of any laws being passed, or the government would propose some laws, but it is again an analysis. I thought that the analyses had already been carried out, and that therefore the reaction should be repeated submission of bills. I'm surprised you're not going to do the checks until 2021. So I'd like to add some answers to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u7	Thank you, too. Before we continue the debate, I will introduce you to other note cards. Mr Ferjenčík apologizes to us today between 9:00 and 9:30 for personal reasons. Mr Mihola apologises between 9 and 11 o'clock and Mrs Šafránková apologises between 9 and 11 o'clock for reasons of work. Anyone else reporting for the debate? The Prime Minister will want to answer. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u8	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madame. Following the Senate resolution of 26 May 2016, we prepared an analysis of the system of control of local authorities at the Ministry of Finance. The analysis included legislative and methodological measures to eliminate duplication of controls. The Government approved the analysis on 19 April 2017 and then the analysis was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 27 April 2017. The Chamber of Deputies has still not discussed this material, which is more than two and a half years. However, measures to eliminate duplicate checks are implemented. As part of the analysis, a legislative measure was proposed which eliminated the duplicate control of the Ministry of Finance for applicants and beneficiaries of subsidies and replaced them by an audit of the provider system. The measure was part of the draft Law on the Management and Control of Public Finance, which was rejected by the Senate on 16 August 2017. Veto of the Senate The Chamber of Deputies did not vote on 5 September 2017. The determination of the precise content of the reports on the results of the financial controls contributes to unifying and making better use of the results of the checks. The Government implemented this measure by amending Decree No. 416/2004 Coll., implementing the Act on Financial Control. The amendment to the Decree was approved in December 2018. Although no duplication of control of the Ministry of Finance with applicants and recipients of subsidies has been removed in legislative terms, the Ministry of Finance has proceeded to address this duplication methodically within the framework of the planning of the control activity. When planning checks, the Ministry of Finance takes into account whether the subsidies granted in the past have been checked, such as by the subsidy provider or by the Supreme Audit Office. This procedure has been adopted in the light of the requirements of the European Union only in the case of subsidies from national sources. As a result, the Ministry of Finance has not carried out any duplicate checks on municipalities as part of the control of national subsidies since 2017. The funds provided by the European Union funds are subject to control by the audit authority of the Ministry of Finance. The municipalities are also not at risk beneficiaries in this case. In 2018, the audit authority audited only 45 municipalities out of a total of 6 258 municipalities, i.e. about 0,7 percent of all municipalities. He checked the subsidies in excess of CZK 300 million. The error rate of the municipalities was marginal - 0.16%. In addition to legislative change, the following methodological measures have also been implemented: firstly, improving the quality of control outputs and transferring incentives to the Financial Authority. Secondly, an analysis of the audit findings of the Supreme Audit Office on the direction of methodological assistance. Thirdly, the use of publicly available resources in preparation for inspection. Fourthly, processing the output of the control activity into methodological aids and realization of training. The number of controls of the financial authorities in the local government is gradually decreasing. In 2018, the financial authorities carried out only 365 checks on the local authorities compared to 2015, when 1 197 checks were carried out, or 2010 when 2 656 checks were carried out. A significant reduction in duplicate controls was made by the 2015 amendment to the budget rules, which extended the provider's competence to deal with budgetary discipline violations without the involvement of the financial authorities. On the question of whether steps will be taken before the adoption of the Government amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, I would like to refer to the measures described above. It should be noted, however, that the issue of duplicate checks concerns, in particular, small municipalities which are not to be subject to the control of the Supreme Audit Office. Therefore, the burden on municipalities by duplicate checks is not an obstacle to the extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, which, according to current proposals, should be controlled only by statutory cities. The discussion of the amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act was withdrawn from the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies and returned to committee on Tuesday, 26 November 2019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Kott also apologizes from today's meeting, from 9 to 13 o'clock for work reasons. Mrs Kovářová is interested in speaking further in the debate, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u10	Thank you, Prime Minister, for answering some of my questions. Perhaps I would stop at what you said that the analysis of duplication of controls or controls of local authorities has been here, I understand, since 2017, since April, and has not yet been discussed. Perhaps it would be worth discussing this analysis in the House. First of all. And two. You referred to me and responded to the steps that have been taken, which I welcome, of course, from the point of view of some training methodology and so on. That's what I think is important. But my question goes back to what I said in my previous speech, whether you'll still be trying to get those laws that didn't pass to the House in this parliamentary term. The four laws. And whether it would not be worth considering, i.e. if the government had an interest in responding to the Senate's resolution or to redo these laws in a way that the House could vote for them, and the same goes for the Senate. So it is my question whether you will try again in this parliamentary term to put the four drafts of laws in the House, which should eliminate duplication of checks, and whether you will support the discussion of the system of controls of local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u11	I'll ask if anyone else is joining the debate. Prime Minister, are you interested? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u12	I'd just like to respond that I assume we're dealing with a thing. That means we don't want duplicate controls. I'm gonna repeat those numbers one more time. For self-government in 2010 - 2 656 checks. I'm sure you'll remember who was in the government then. And in 2018 - 365. So that's 2,300 less checks. So I don't know if any laws are really gonna help us anymore. We're doing our best to eliminate it, and of course I can consult my colleagues on whether the four laws - and I don't know them specifically - will help us to do so, given the number of laws waiting for discussion. And I also told you here a while ago what it looks like with the Supreme Audit Office's control bill, for example, that we need. So let's see what we have on the table here. Anyway, I'll take a look at it. But the question is, I think we're really dealing with this, that it's going in the right direction - if the four laws are going to help us. Anyway, I'll check with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u13	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in a further speech in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u14	Prime Minister, thank you for this answer. So I'm going to expect you to tell me how your colleagues are going to stand up to this. I understand you don't know these laws, because it's really a very specific agenda. So I'd like you to give me a message in some way. You are right that some of the methodological guidelines that have been implemented have probably led to restrictions on controls. But I think that these laws would certainly benefit, too, and I hope that you will deal with this topic even before you mention it in the draft measure in the Concept of Public Administration Development 2021+, because it is within two to three years before you implement such measures or analyses. Anyway, thank you for your answer and I'll be waiting for the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u15	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate. If this is not the case, I will end the debate. I am now asking Mrs Věra Kovářová, as proposed by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, if any. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u16	I will not propose a resolution, because the Prime Minister has in a way answered some questions and I think he will still address the subject. So I don't think the resolution is necessary at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u17	Thank you, too. That concludes the discussion of this interpelation. We will move on to another interpelation, which is again an interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, interpelling Mrs Věra Kovářová on an empty chair at the Constitutional Court. It's House Press 595. The discussion of this response has been suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who is present, for which I thank him once again, and I am opening the debate and please Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u18	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I have interrogated you on the fact that President Zeman seems to have no problem understanding the role he plays not only in the appointment of ministers but also in constitutional judges. In my interview, I say that constitutional judge Jan Musil resigned for health reasons at the end of January of this year. So it's been a few months, almost a year, and there's still an empty chair at the Constitutional Court. For the first time, the President proposed Aleš Gerloch, a constitutional lawyer, who was rejected by the Senate. That happened in March, and still nothing. We're waiting for another President's proposal or name in vain. I believe in my intervention that this is an unnecessary weakening of the Constitutional Court, which slows down the operation of this institution, which citizens, for example, must wait longer for. I asked you how you are looking at a situation where it has taken so long to appoint a constitutional judge. And I also asked if you, as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, should remind the President that he has some responsibilities that come from the Constitution and that should not be dragged and neglected unnecessarily. In your reply, you pointed out to me what the duties of a Member in connection with the interpelations are for the government and for the Prime Minister, with the fact that we have both ministers and to interpel you in matters of your competence. You also replied that "in view of this fact that the staffing of the Constitutional Court does not belong to the Government, I cannot provide you with any relevant information on this matter'. So many quotes from your answer. I basically have to say, Prime Minister, that you are right about this. The Rules of Procedure state this. On the other hand, I think that, as Prime Minister, you should be interested, given how overloaded the Constitutional Court is - and the lack of one constitutional judge of 15 is quite a gap. It's not one in a hundred, it's one in a fifteen. Given that the Constitutional Court is overloaded and it would be good for the place of the Constitutional Judge to be supplemented, and also because you have very good relations with Mr President, I think that in an informal way you could open this subject up and ask him to consider a further proposal to appoint a Constitutional Judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u19	Thank you, and the Prime Minister will be interested in an answer, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u20	Thank you for the floor. I've already received an answer, Madame, to those laws. Here's the Deputy Minister of Finance Vyhnálek writing me that no, there's no consensus, especially with the mayor. So try, you're from the mayors, so try to convince the mayor at home. Supposedly, they don't want the laws. That's what the Deputy Minister says. So, actually, I've already done my first assignment. And if that's not the case, then, of course, I like to hear from the mayors that the deputy, I don't know, doesn't have the right position, so I'm sure I'll be dealing with it. About the Constitutional Court. Very good relations with the president. Well, you amused me. I have non-conflict relations with Mr. President. I know that our society is mostly in conflict, that someone would like it if we had conflicting relationships. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, imagine I still have a conflict of interest. It's been there for three years, almost three years there lies lex Babiš, what you invented, i.e. your guru, and the Constitutional Court hasn't decided yet. But I think the other things are making up their minds. So I'm not even allowed to comment on the Constitutional Court here at all, nor criticize it. But the fact is, it's not in my jurisdiction. I wouldn't dare talk about your duties, I'm writing about your right to interpel me in matters of my authority. It is not my responsibility, but I will ask the President how he considers it. He suggested Mr. Gerloch, he failed. The relations between the Senate and Mr. President are what they are, so I'm sure I'll ask. But you can also write to him. Maybe he'll say something about it. So I'm definitely just saying here that I'm gonna ask. It would be good for the Constitutional Court to be complete, and we'll see. Maybe the President will come up with a nomination soon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u21	Thank you. Madam Secretary is reporting for the debate - Madame, excuse me, excuse me. The honourable Member is reporting for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u22	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for not being in your jurisdiction, as Prime Minister, as you might be interested in making the Constitutional Court complete, so you will ask President Zeman what his position is and what his plans are in this matter, and, of course, I will also ask the President in writing. I have to say, just about your previous answer, or the beginning of the answer, I don't know who my guru is, because you didn't name him. So I wonder who you think is my guru. Thank you. Secondly, you say that you have had a conflict of interest that has been at the Constitutional Court for three years, or the case and the case, and that is why I think it is important that not only your affairs, but the affairs of others, mostly citizens, should be dealt with as soon as possible, and therefore it is in everyone's interest that this place be completed as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u23	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I am now asking Mrs Věra Kovářová whether she is proposing a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u24	Once again, I think there is no need to propose a resolution in this case, or the Prime Minister has promised to discuss this issue with the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u25	Thank you, too. We have also dealt with this response to interpelation and we will move on, which is an interpelation to the first Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Jan Hamáček, who is, of course, interrupted by the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. It is not present, so we will not even address it at this time and move on to further interpelation, and this is an interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, an interpelation from Mr Lubomír Volný to the Government of the Czech Republic in the case of Kauza citizen, Mr Bořek Riess and a closely related correction of the system for the authorisation of the operation and connection of small, civil for private purposes, as well as greater sources of solar and other electricity production to the distribution system. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 627. Initiating debate. The Member is present and ready, so please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, hello, ladies and gentlemen. I present today in the case of Mr Riess, which shows how long the solar mafia has had its fingers, which has unfortunately been created here in this House, unfortunately by some Members who are still in the position of Members and have the possibility to continue to influence the future of this country. Because the fingers of the solar mafia are so long that they have reached the building of the Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, when after Mr Riess had exhausted all funds within the Czech Republic in the fight against our police and judicial mafia and turned to the European Court of Human Rights, in the building of this court to rob his mail shipment, which he has precisely traced, that it has arrived in order to the court's building, the staff of the court has been properly taken over, but the competent judge has already been robbed, cut, filled with newspapers and robbed. It is quite an interesting case, which takes place in the classic media silence. I don't know if it's because our mainstream media, corporate media don't like criticism of European institutions, or if it's because those fingers of the solar mafia are interfering with our media space, which I wouldn't be surprised. And I have received an answer from you, Prime Minister, which was very technical and very legislative, but I did not resolve the situation with regard to the stolen shipment, and after consulting Mr Riess, I have sent you a dissenting opinion and I would like to ask you to answer whether the Czech Republic has an assignment to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, or at least some official person who provides quality service for our citizens and helps them, above all, in terms of fulfilling all the principles of the right to a fair trial, equality before the law, etc. Last but not least, whether such an assignee can advise our people, our citizens, how best to meet all the formal requirements of this court and aimed at a significant respect for judicial institutions, as the Czech law offices and information on the web are not in practice sufficient. We consulted three lawyers on this, and as is the bad joke, three lawyers produced five legal opinions and five different ways to proceed. The case of Mr Riess proved that an institution, perhaps the Government of the Czech Republic, should be dealt with without undue delay within the framework of the system for the delivery of complaints to citizens of the Czech Republic addressed to and to the European Court of Justice to ensure compliance with the letter secrets and the right already mentioned to the fair trial of our citizens, who are turning to the European Court of Human Rights. Probably every normal person should be completely terrified, that is, one who still believes in the principles of the rule of law and the possibility of achieving justice within the current Euro-EU justice system, when Mr Riess would document his case to him, that he lodged a complaint against the procedure of public authority in this court, only that the unsub in the building of this European court robbed this shipment and illegally influenced this trial. Mr Riess and I are therefore naturally concerned that the mafia practices of the solar barons have already intervened directly into Strasbourg. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u27	Thank you and I ask if anyone is joining the debate. The Prime Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u28	Hello again. Thank you for the opportunity to get off here. I have here the opinion of the Office of the Government Agent for the Representation of the Czech Republic to the European Court of Human Rights and it is the opinion that the European Court of Human Rights is an independent international body. The Czech Republic or any other Contracting State of the European Convention on Human Rights cannot intervene in its activities. It cannot, therefore, control its functioning, the court, and the procedure of its judges or servants of his office. The only way that the complainant can challenge the procedure of the staff of the court's office is to contact the Registrar of the court responsible for the operation of the office. Information about complaint submission is available on the website of the court, even in Czech language. No State has sent an officer to assist complainants in filing complaints. This is a matter for the Bar Associations to ensure that their members are filing a complaint on behalf of their clients. The Czech Bar Association, as I have been informed, has a member in its ranks who is ready to consult with his fellow lawyers on questions related to the filing of complaints. And if lawyers are aware that their information is not sufficient, they should require their professional chambers to provide the necessary training. So much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u29	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member in the debate, I will introduce the House with further apologies. Mr Benda apologizes to us between 11 and 13 for work reasons. Mr Kopřiva apologises between 9 and 11 o'clock for working reasons and Mr Pošvář between 9 and 11 o'clock also for working reasons. And now I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate on this point. Mr. Volný. So, please, Mr. Ambassador, if you're interested... [[The Free Member is speaking with the Prime Minister.]] Mr. Ambassador... If you do not take the floor, I will have to remove it and end the debate. Please take the floor. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr. Ambassador...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u30	I'm here. Thank you. We, in cooperation with the Prime Minister, tried to find out the name of the institution that created the document. I just wanted to quote her right here... [[Prime Minister off the microphone: it's an opinion from Mr. Schorm. Government Agent for Representation of the Czech Republic...]] Yes. Thank you. So we have to tell each other, we have an office for representation, or for human rights, which is dedicated to this court... [[Prime Minister off the microphone: within the Ministry of Justice.]] Within the Ministry of Justice, which cannot do anything with any cause or with the right to a fair trial for a citizen of the Czech Republic within that European court, because the court is independent. [[Prime Minister off the mic: I'll ask about it...]] Yes. [[9.50 hours]] So I would like to ask the Prime Minister to contact this office, because I would like to clarify its competence, if it is not another unnecessary body, which, in its essence, can do nothing, so if he acts only as a postman between the European Court of Human Rights and, for example, the Government of the Czech Republic, and yet has no competence and cannot help the citizens of the Czech Republic, so maybe he is useless. However, this case is important to me mainly because of the fact that people in this country and perhaps some of their fellow MEPs who are very pro-European realize that the fingers of the solar mafia from the Czech Republic reach the building of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I'm gonna take this information and I'm not proposing a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u31	Thank you. I'm going to ask if anyone else is applying to the debate on this interpellation. The Prime Minister is interested, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u32	I'll check it out. If we have an office there and the background is drawn up in Strasbourg, the question of the Member is justified. So I'm gonna ask you if our citizens can't use the office, what do we have it for? Logically, I agree with that, and I'll ask.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u33	Thank you. And if no one else signs up for the debate on this interview, I am ending this debate. And, as Mr Volný said, he does not propose a resolution, so this interpellation is exhausted and we will move on. Mr Vojtěch Munzar's intervention on the Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová on the current drawdown of European funds in the Czech Republic in the period 2014 to 2020. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 628. I'm opening the debate. The Member is present, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I only have a few follow-up questions about the Minister, but we all heard yesterday that she was indisposed, which is why it didn't seem fair for me to be forced to come today because of a few follow-up questions. That's why I suggested to her myself that she be absent today and that I suggest an interruption to her presence. I think it's more solid to her condition. That's why I suggest that we interrupt her until she's present at the patronage. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u35	Yes, thank you, that's a procedural question. I've already called my colleagues to the O.R. There's an application for a check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you, please sign up again with your cards before the vote. For those who are coming, I will repeat that we will have a procedural vote on the interruption of the interpelation to Mrs Klára Dostálová on the drawing of European funds into her presence. Looks like we have enough presence. So I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favor of interrupting. Who's against interruption? Thank you all. There are 75 Members in the 70 vote, for 74, against no one. So we interrupted the interpellation into the presence of the Minister. And we're going to continue with another interpellation, which is an interpellation to the Minister of Culture, Lubomír Zaorálek. Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek responded to the interview of Mr Miroslav Grebeníček on the situation in the National Gallery in Prague, the contribution organisation of the Ministry of Culture, the responsibility of former Director General Jiří Fajt for serious shortcomings and procedures affecting the National Gallery and its staff and regarding responsibility, quality and results of the control activities and procedures of the Ministry of Culture and conclusions and measures to address and overcome serious problems of the National Gallery in Prague. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 632. I am opening the debate and, please, Mr Grebeníček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have all noted the proper apology of the Minister of Culture at today's meeting, and I therefore have no choice but to ask the House to consent to the interruption of this interpelation until the presence of the Minister of Culture at our meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u37	Thank you. I've called our colleagues to the O.R. again. Again, for those who are coming. We will vote on the interruption of this interpellation to the presence of the Minister. There's no check-out request. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 71, 79 Members and Members are registered, for 73, against no one. The motion to interrupt has been accepted. I'm of the opinion that we've interrupted this interpellation in the presence of the Minister. And we'll move on, which is an interpellation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš replied to Mr Jiří Kobza's interview on nomination to the Government Council for National Minorities and its personnel composition. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 650. I am opening the debate, Mr Kobza is present, so please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, hello. The nomination of Mrs Eugenie Číhalová to the Council of the Government for National Minorities was interviewed because I was wondering how it was possible that a lady was nominated on this council, presenting her photographs when she placed wreaths on the grave of Nazi general Helmuth von Pannwitz and presented photographs of Ivan Nikitič Kononov, a colonel of Wehrmacht, who commanded a volunteer Cosssack regiment who fought on the part of Nazi Germany in the territory of the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia. To answer this interpelation, for which I thank, I would also like to know one more thing - if this lady is still a member of the Council of the Government for National Minorities, and I would also be very interested to see how her activities, where she worships the memory of Nazi criminals, were neglected during the selection procedure. I believe that the presence of this lady in such a high-ranking body is totally unacceptable, and I think it should cause a more careful consideration of all members of such advice, because it is not possible for those who have these ties to be members of the Government Council. Thank you for your answer in advance, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u39	Thank you, and the Prime Minister will answer in the debate, so please have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u40	Thank you for asking. Of course, I haven't heard from Mrs. Číhalová until this interpelation. I just want to say that he appoints members of the Council from among the representatives of individual national minorities in accordance with Art. Whereas: Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) the Statute of the Council of the Government of the Czech Republic, on the basis of a proposal from the association of members of national minorities. Most of the time, the government gets it in part of the government's agenda for information, so we're not even discussing it. That procedure for the appointment of representatives of individual national minorities is laid down in Section 6 (2) of the Act of Accession. 4 of Law No. 273/2001 Coll., on the rights of members of national minorities and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended. In accordance with the above, Mrs Eugenie Číhalová was also proposed to the Council, who, as a representative of the Russian national minority, proposed to appoint three associations of members of national minorities. Specifically, these were associations of Russian tradition, z. s., Academy of National Minorities, z. s., and KULTURUS, z. s. First of all, the Russian tradition is one of the most important associations of members of the Russian national minority whose mission is to fulfil the common interest, which is to develop the cultural and social activities of the Russian national minority on the basis of the cultural and social traditions of Russian emigratory associations in Czechoslovakia. I have for you, Mr. Ambassador, processed the expert opinion of the Military Historical Institute of Prague, which I do not want to read here because it is for a long time. If you're interested, I'd give it to you. This opinion of the Military Historical Institute of Prague concludes that the comments of victims of violent deportations take place with the participation of representatives of Russian emigrants from all over Europe, as well as Austrian politicians. There is no way that this is an action that could be described as neo-Nazi or Nazi promoting. They are not even a celebration of the war activity of Cossack troops operating under German command, but a number of innocent victims of the bipolar division of the world. If that's enough for you? [[It's not enough.]] Not enough, okay. But can I give it to you? [[Yes.]] I'd read it right now, but that's about half an hour. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u41	I thank the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Andrej Babiš. We will continue with Mr Kobza's speech. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I'd only take the liberty of reacting briefly. Thank you for your opinion and for the materials that I am very happy to study. I personally understand the presence of this lady in the Council for National Minorities as a warning precedent, because, taking into account the current migration wave and the current wave that is about to happen, it is perfectly possible that the fighters of the Islamic State and the jihadists will also become members of the Council for National Minorities, if the examination takes place in this lax way. And I must confess, putting wreaths on the grave of a Nazi general doesn't strike me as worshipping his victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u43	I thank Mr Kobza. The Prime Minister is preparing for a follow-up response. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u44	No, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sure the jihadists aren't in danger, because we don't accept any migrants, nor will we be. I just want to say that on the basis of this case, we have taken measures that everyone who is proposed by Mrs Válková is now being illustrated, and I am convinced that this will not happen again if, of course, we can trace it from any public material, that it is some controversial person. So we learned from it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. I think my colleague Kobza is satisfied. I have not heard any suggestion that he would propose a refusal of a written reply, so we can, in a procedural way, end this interview with the Prime Minister. This leaves us with the last interview of Mr Ivan Bartoš on the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová on the Report on EU Financial Corrections in the Czech Republic. Mr. Chairman Bartoš is coming. I note, Mr President, that the Vice-President of the Government is duly excused within 13 hours. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u46	Thank you for your clue, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I will merely repeat, we are somehow settling an interpellation concerning the EU Financial Corrections Report in the Czech Republic. And since Minister Schillerová is duly excused, as has been said here at the outset and now from Mr President, I would like to ask for a vote on the suspension of this questioning until Mrs Schillerová is present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u47	Thank you for the procedural proposal. Before I do that, I'm gonna run the gong so that we can eventually summon colleagues from the lobby. And I note that there has been an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Mr Dominik Feri, within 13 hours for work reasons. We will therefore now decide to suspend the consultation of Mr Ivan Bartoš on the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová in her presence. We will decide in the vote the order number 72 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 72 of 86 for 74, against no one. The motion was accepted. We have therefore interrupted this intervention in the presence of Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. That's how we've exhausted the program of today's written interventions. Because the other points of the program aren't scheduled until 11:00, so I'll thank you. I note that for today, for today's Thursday, we have completed the discussion of the answers to the written interpelation of Members, and we will continue at 11 o'clock on the agenda of our meeting, paragraph 280, the work of the Board of Auditors of the Grant Agency, and other points of the contracts at second reading. I'm interrupting the meeting by 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue our negotiations. Now we should focus on the fixed point 167, then discuss the points from the second reading block, and in the afternoon we would focus on paragraph 292, which is oral questioning. There are more to the apologies that have already been loaded. Mr Pour apologizes for today's meeting from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons; President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček apologises from 11 a.m. to 14 a.m. from today's meeting for work reasons; and Mr František Navrkal apologizes for today's meeting from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. also for work reasons. Before we proceed to discuss a fixed item, I ask whether there is an interest in a speech with a proposal to amend the approved agenda of the 39th meeting. Mr Veselý is interested in speaking. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am speaking with a proposal to change the agenda of the meeting, namely in the block of second reading - contracts. I would like to put forward a point, which is classified as point 177, House printing 341, an agreement of the EU - LAC International Foundation. It is an agreement between the EU and Latin America. It's a proposal from the Foreign Committee. I'm here as chairman of the Foreign Committee. It's a non-conflict proposal. For us, if we approve this agreement, this will not mean any legislative burden, but it will allow us to enter into a dialogue between the EU and Latin America, which is definitely our concern. Latin America is now a rapidly developing region and we had a representative of the Latin American Foundation here who asked us if we could speed up the process. So by this I dare ask the House to pre-schedule this point. It's going to be really unconflict, very short. So I believe there won't be a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u50	Yes, thank you. President Faltýnek also volunteered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, colleagues. Allow me to propose the following amendments to the agenda for the appeal meeting - and I would like to ask all of you for support - with a reference to yesterday's agreement on the Organising Committee when we agreed that next Tuesday, after the Houses of Returns, we will spend time until tonight on the opposition proposals of the various parliamentary clubs. [[Senate]] Since we've actually discussed all the third readings that we went to discuss yesterday, there's some room for us tomorrow morning. And for this reason, I would like to propose that, after paragraph 14, which is the draft law on the SAO, it is the second reading that falls to us first, it is the extension of the competence of the SAO as well as the possibility to control Czech television, so that after point 14, we include point 21, House printing 501, it is a government draft law on property valuation from the Ministry of Finance workshop, it is the first reading. In addition, paragraph 22, print 572, the Government's proposal for a law on the implementation of EU tax regulations, as well as first reading. And then item 23, House press 581, government bill on pharmaceuticals, also first reading. And as the fourth point in point 134, it is the parliamentary proposal of Helena Válková and Marek Benda and others, it is the press 466, the parliamentary bill of law on criminal proceedings. At the same time, I would like to place a new item on the agenda. It is the budget - it is at the request of the Minister of Agriculture - the budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, it is the House's press 653, and I propose that it be firmly included as item 200 in the block of points related to the agenda for the state budget for 2020, which we will discuss on Wednesday 4. 12. It is actually the last press that concerns the state budget, which has not yet been included in 2020. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-28-ps2017-039-03-001-291.u52	Thank you. Anyone else on the motion to change the agenda? He's not reporting. So we will gradually vote on which of the proposals the Chamber of Deputies will accept. First of all, we will vote on Mr Veselý's proposal to include the House press 341, paragraph 177, as the first item of the treaties today after a firmly placed point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 136 Members registered, for 111, against no one. The motion was accepted. There are now proposals made by President Faltýnek. It is - just to remind - a firm inclusion on the agenda for Friday from nine o'clock first item 14, House print 236, and then points from the block of first readings no. 21, 22, 23 and 134. Then there's a proposal for a new point, but I'd like to vote on that separately. I ask whether we can vote together on these points that I have now read - or who wants a separate vote? He doesn't, so we'll vote together. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 74, 140 Members registered, for 91, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the proposal to include a new item in the agenda - House Press 653. First of all, please, we will only vote on the inclusion of a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 75, 140 Members registered, for 109, against no one. The proposal was adopted, we included a new item in the agenda. And now we will vote on putting this House press 653 firmly on point 200 in the block of points related to the 2020 State Budget Agenda, which we will be dealing with on Wednesday 4. 12. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 140 Members registered, for 114, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. This has dealt with all the proposals for changing the agenda. [[11.10 hours]] Other apologies which I will introduce to you: Mrs Věra Adámková apologizes from 11.15 to 18.00 for reasons of work, Mr Jan Pošvář from 11.00 to 11.15 for reasons of work and from 11.50 to 13.00 for reasons of work Mr Aleš Juchelka apologizes. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] In accordance with the approved agenda for the meeting, we will first address the item before the contract block.
