ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 245 and 246 of the House prints 113 and 114/ Thursday 17. 10. we have interrupted the merged general debate on these two points. I ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken by Mr Petr Dolínek, the rapporteur of the electoral committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u2	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to inform you that, in agreement with my colleague Nacher, given that there is no vote on the rapporteur's amendment to the reports, Patrik Nacher and I agreed that I would remain as rapporteur for the 2016 reports and that my colleague would subsequently continue as rapporteur for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u3	Okay, so the rapporteur for this press is Mrs Barbora Kořanová. So we will now continue with the suspended merged general debate, where Mr Foldyna, Mr Rozner and Mr Lubomír Volný have taken the floor. [[There's noise in the room.]] I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. Mr. Foldyna has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u4	Thank you for the floor. I had a longer discussion post prepared, but after the week since last week, things have changed to some extent. It happened that the director of Czech Television did not respond to the call of his colleague Juříček to discuss the management report publicly. I am going to separate myself from the report on the activities of Czech Television, which is a subjective view of each of us, and I think that this report is not as important as the management report. What my colleague Juříček presented here was so serious that he called on the Director-General of Czech Television to hold a public debate and the director refused, even though he had called for a colleague Juříček to discuss it earlier. For me, the management report is quite problematic and the doubts that my colleague Juříček has opened with his attitude here, and a number of others are forcing me to think very much, unless something so fundamental is said here, not to support this report on the management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u5	Thank you. Mr Jiří Valenta has made a point of fact. Before the microphone comes, I will read an apology: Mrs Andra Babišová apologizes today between 15.00 and midnight for reasons of work, Mrs Věra Adámková apologizes today between 11.00 and 12.00 for reasons of work, Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologises today from 11.15 to 13.00 for reasons of work, and Mr František Navrkal for personal reasons from 9 to 13.00. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u6	Thank you for the floor. Just a very brief addition to the previous speaker, Foldyna. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now just a very brief information input in this sense and one rhetorical question. The CEO of Czech Television, Mr. Petr Dvořák, today on ČT 24 before eight o'clock, suddenly during a moderated debate on the TV programme to celebrate the 17th anniversary of November, began to suddenly talk about the approval of the Czech Television reports in the House. To my immense amazement, he said that MEPs had already admitted in public that they were attacking the Czech TV's economy because they did not like the news, but that he would defend Czech television against politicians. Well, that's very smiling. Please, can one of you tell me who told him this? Certainly no one, but in my opinion, the Director-General again and unprecedentedly abused the public media screen for his own purposes, which means strengthening the existing preserved structures on Czech television, which are connected to its non-transparable money channels, whether directly or indirectly. [[11.40 hours]] And his subliminal message to the citizens? You, concessionaires, you better shut up, or you're gonna be as ostracized as these powerful MPs. - Unfortunately for the director, the fact that today we are only trying to partially uncover the strange business management on Czech television, but not even with this charade, a useless charade, will disturb. For my part, I am going to discuss the miraculous economics of Czech Television in connection with 2017, but it will be a little longer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u7	Thank you. With a point of fact, it's reported... Not de facto? He wants to go to a debate. So we're going back to the general debate. Mr. Rozner. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will look at Czech TV as an ordinary TV viewer, who are together with us hundreds of thousands. I searched the Internet and looked at what the Czech Television said more about the Czech Television. I also came across a conference called The Role of Czech Television in our company, which was held in the upper chamber of our Parliament, i.e. the Senate. And believe me, it was truly an interesting reading for me, which offers a slightly different picture of how our public television works. The management of Czech television is clearly deficit - economist Ing said at the conference. Radek the Žádník. Until 2011, Czech Television created surpluses and has been living from 2012 onwards. When Jiří Janeček handed his successor, current director Petr Dvořák, as director of television in November 2011, Czech Television had 3.8 billion. Crowns. After six years of farming, funds in the accounts fell to 1.8 billion. Crowns. University educator, former member of the Board of Broadcasts and current member of the Board of CTK docent. Petr Žantovský spoke at the conference about the illegal activism of Czech television. Why Czech Television participates in the dehonestation and elimination of so-called. alternative or independent media? Czech Television violates the 1991 law, which obliges it to create an environment for pluralistic debate. Czech television is leading a one-sided monologue and wonders that the public's answer is distrust and escape to alternative media that allows free exchange of views. According to security analyst Jan Schneider, the expression characteristic of the production of Czech television is unbalancedness and shallowness. It is especially reflected in the so-called discussion shows by selecting guests who should represent a wide range of views, which according to Schneider does not happen. It is a pity that Czech Television is not interested in the reflection of its activities, even in the Senate - Schneider commented that none of the invited senior managers of Czech Television did not attend the conference even though they were invited. Constitutional lawyer docent. Zdeněk Koudelka criticized Pragocentrism of Czech Television at the conference. According to him, the decentralization of its broadcasting in Brno and Ostrava should also be part of the public service on television. Former longtime member and vice-chairman of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, musician and writer Petr Štěpánek spoke at the conference about the senselessness of television fees. I quote: Television fees are inefficient, irrational and antisocial, as they slowly turned into a strange degressive household tax in the flow of time. The effectiveness of their selection is problematic. The system is obsolete and, paradoxically, it pays the poorest the most in proportion to its salary. - The actual cancellation of the fees is not enough according to Štěpánek. According to him, the Czech TV needs to be slimmed down, its management subject to real public control and, above all, its coverage and publicity to open up the entire spectrum of opinion. We can or may not agree with the speakers of this conference. But there is an absolutely fundamental question: why is there no such discussion on the Czech TV screen? There are plenty of viewers who are critical of Czech television. Is it really their duty to keep their mouths and just pay? Another pain in the news Czech Television is labeling. While this is contrary to the law, which prescribes that reports and evaluation comments must be separated, journalists do not give a damn about it, so they are cheerfully labeled so that especially some politicians and some political entities are already portrayed negatively in advance. In the case of Czech Television, which lives on our mandatory fees, there is a crazy paradox that a small part of the concessionaries also finance propaganda that goes directly against their beliefs and interests. Is it so surprising that they don't want to contribute to something like this? So what good is Czech TV? To select information for those we can hear and not hear? To impose Euro-Hungarian and neo-Marxist propaganda on us? To broadcast a weirdly set consumer magazine instead of the main news? To feed us 30 years after the great velvet series from the era of real socialism? To feed our money to the scoundrels of political nonprofits? To politically correctly screw up the souls of our children as well? To be a source of sustenance for truthful boys and girls who talk to each other? We're sending 7 billion to Kavčí Mountains for this. A year? Why are we paying for something that's bad for us? From everything I have quoted here, it follows that neither Czech Television nor the Czech Television Council do their job well. Therefore, we should not approve their annual reports. However, I would conclude by saying: I may not agree with you as completely as I do with you, Mr Dvořák, the former CEO - but that cannot be said. But balanced public Czech television in its report, when Mr Hynek says - former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, even three times, so it can be said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u9	Thank you. With the replacement card number 26, Mr Skopeček will vote. Next for the debate is Mr Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to start by asking you to check your parliamentary e-mails because my colleague Mrs Ivana Nevludová sent you a short version of her speech for which she was a primitive and offensively attacked in a local parliamentary restaurant. And so, in order to ensure that you know what you are going to vote on today, we have decided to send you all a message on your e-mails, containing all the information that Mrs Nevludová made in her previous speech, including resources. So it is something that I think might be of interest through the President, in particular, to fellow pirates calling for transparency and the verification of individual data. What I will do now is I will read a very short version of this performance, during which I will refer you again to the individual specific information about how it is managed and how the activities of Czech Television are controlled. I will do this so that one day, when an investigation committee for the activities of Czech Television or an investigation committee for the privatisation of Czech Television or an investigation committee for the collapse of Czech Television, you who will still be here as Members can never tell anyone that you did not have access to the information. So now the short version. I would like to draw my attention to my colleagues, I think, from KDU-ČSL through Mr President, that if I read somewhat confusedly, it is not because I would be dyslexic, but it is because I will quote a literal transcript, and if I will ever address myself as a woman, it is not because I would be uncertain about my own gender, but because I will quote my colleague Nevludová. [[11.50 hours]] The President of the Czech Television Council, Mr Bednář, assured us who were at the seminar on the management of Czech Television that they carefully controlled the selection procedures. I will now quote his words in order to make your views known as to whether this claim is based on the truth. Quote. "Next, the arbitration panel carries out the tender checks. Each year, the Supervisory Board checks several dozen tenders, and they are selection procedures of a variety of types. It's a selection procedure for those, you might say, big orders, like tens of millions of crowns in order. But they're also so-called. small orders, and as it was explained to me, when I was a little bit wondering why such seemingly small things were sometimes controlled, it was explained to me that this is precisely what is necessary to make no impression in the institution that something is not being controlled, that when a contract is needed up to CZK 100,000, that no one will control it. Thus, this impression must never arise, and that is why there are often things in the list of activities that the Supervisory Commission does that might seem like they are something for 60 thousand. Kroner, something for 150 grand. "And there are millions of dollars." End of quote. And now I'm going to ask you, those of you who had the courage to open this message so that you and me would go after the various sources of information, and if you don't have the courage to at least keep a dignified silence for those who would like to control it. I'm quoting my colleague Nevludová. "When reading the procurement contracts or the terms of the contract won by Leading, and the qualification criteria required under the competition, I found out the following. Quote. I am glad that fellow pirát control along with me because they can check exactly according to the letter deposited links to public resources. "The supplier fulfils the qualification requirement if he has carried out at least two services of a similar nature and scope in the last five years.' - I ask for peace at the table on my right hand. Thank you. A service of a similar nature and scope means a service consisting in the management of projects implementing Helios Green modules, economy, production, orders, accounting, logistics, property and controlling for at least 200 users under a contract with a total value of at least 10 million. Kroner for every service. I am assuming that our transparent and corrupt colleagues from pirate, who have great experience with the introduction of IT technology - I will also ask for peace here in front of me, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u11	I would ask that we not disturb each other. And I have to say, it's really awkward when someone's talking in front of you and you're supposed to be giving a lecture. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u12	Thank you. I suppose that at least colleagues from pirate, who have great experience with IT, can imagine what the company has to do to have at least 200 users in a contract with a total value of at least 10 miles. Kroner for every service. This company certainly could not meet these requirements, because it could not meet these requirements when only checking the financial statements entered in the Charter Collection, when it did not show any sales from sales of goods and services in 2014, also none in 2015, in 2016 only in the amount of CZK 2,159,000, and for the years 2017 and 2018 I did not find the statements in the Charter Collection. Probably because the general meeting of the owners of the Lapčíkův family company did not take place so that these statements were sent to the Collection under the Accounting Act. The offer of Leading, which is free to download, contains information showing that the company has been in business information systems since 1993, which perfectly contradicts the accounting statements. Mr. Ing, by the way. Dušan Lapčík is a former Managing Director of Leading, s. r. o., who signed over to his wife in January 2011. And do you know who was a former member of the board of directors of Asseco Solutions, whose membership worked surprisingly until February 2011? Mr. Dusan Lapčík. At the seminar, I said it seemed like a little house to me, and I insist. We can now proceed to check further data, and I am very glad to see that it is evident that colleagues from the pirate side are interested because they are really honestly looking at the monitors of their electronic devices. According to the central register of contracts, I only tracked down one contract with this company. If the pirát find more, we'll apologize. To CZK 1,950,000 of 25. 1. 2017. According to registered partial orders that bind to this contract, this performance is already in values for 2017 - 1 734 250 CZK, for 2018 - 560 thousand. CZK 1,018 500 CZK, which amounts to a total of CZK 3, 312 750, which means that the contract is already overdrawn by CZK 1,362 750, or that means the second possibility that the contract is not different in the register, new, which is, as we all know, wrong again. I'm leaving a brief moment to check this at least suspicious, if not directly corrupt-looking case. And we can move on to the other one. It's traffic services. 25 days. 5. 2015 contract for this service was concluded with Sedop Taxi Praha, s. r. o. I ask the Minister of Culture and my colleague to check according to sent e-mail and cooperation. Thank you. You know, the teacher doesn't deny himself. The passenger is entitled to order individual services with the carrier up to a total value of 20 million. CZK without VAT aggregate for the entire duration of the contract. The contract shall be concluded for a fixed period until this limit is exhausted. 19 days. 12. However, 2016 has already been signed an amendment to this contract where the contract of carriage is terminated early on the grounds that the carrier cannot continue to provide the services required by passengers in quantity and quality. And this contract ends at 28. 2. 2017. There was therefore a new competition for the provision of these services. The price was calculated for a four-year period of less than 13 miles. And the only party to this proceeding was Halo Taxi, s. r. o., with which the contract was signed on 10. 8. 2017 for an indefinite period. The contract includes, among other things, that - and now you can control from public sources - the carrier undertakes to have at least 60 vehicles for the entire duration of the contract, of which at least 40 are mid-class vehicles and 20 are medium or premium vehicles, A6, BMW 5, Mercedes E etc. having regard to the models produced. The age of the vehicle shall not exceed six years and the maximum number of kilometres driven shall not exceed 220 thousand. km. The list of vehicles is set out in Annex 4 to this Treaty. We didn't find this attachment in the register. And once again, we'll appreciate it if one of our Internet more competent colleagues finds it. This information is important given the prices for such luxury vehicles from an accounting point of view, please. Yes. From an accounting point of view. We do not now think that Czech television should not have such vehicles. Far more substantial information that after four months of signing the contract, that is to say 22. 12. 2017, the amendment to this agreement is signed because, please check again that Halo Taxi, s. r. o. sold part of the company Halotaxi transport, s. r. o. These companies are connected by staff. The applicant for this contract must, in accordance with paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) submit a declaration of honour that it is economically and financially capable of fulfilling the contract for the entire duration of the contract; [[12.00 hours]] In my opinion, this statement was either false or based on the applicant's dreams. If we look at the Charter Collection, we will find from the company's balance sheets and profit and loss statements that in 2017 these vehicles were apparently purchased through leasing companies because the company was heavily indebted. This company ended up bankrupt in April of this year, the total value of the claims claimed is over 26 million. Crowns. In my opinion, what happened in the case of the previous participant in the contract should have happened to SEDOP, as I quoted. The company was unable to complete the ČT award, she withdrew from the contract and a new tender was issued, as I already said. However, this did not happen at the company Halotaxi, s.r.o.. No new procedure has been drawn up and the aforementioned amendment has been signed with the fact that the new successor company, which had not previously participated in any tender, Halotaxi Transport, s. r. o., assumes all rights and obligations of the original contract. The fact that the company meets the criteria of the contract according to the appendix verified the separation of the central purchase of the ČT. And let's look again at the Charter Collection, and now it will have to do with the fact that according to the contract, the company is required to have 40 middle class vehicles and 20 premium class vehicles. In the assets of Halotaxi transport we will find assets as of 31. 12. 2017 in the amount of 4,5 million. Crowns. No long-term liabilities. If I were to admit the fact that the company would negotiate loan agreements for the purchase of vehicles. I was wondering how much the older Audi A6, aged 2016, up to about 700 thousand, BMW 5, aged 2013, 450 thousand. If we calculate the value of 20 such vehicles, which should also not be a problem for anyone in this House, we are over 10 miles away. CZK in assets. Where are the other 40 mid-class cars? Where do we have the tangible assets that the company must still have according to the requirements of the contract? There is no mention of possible subcontractors in the contract. So what did he supposedly control the central purchase? Why hasn't a new tender been issued? In short, there has simply been a breach of the Public Procurement Act. So what does the Council control? Now I would like to ask my former colleagues to disturb me here - thank you. Does it seem to you that it is sufficiently fulfilling its control function? For me, there's more than enough arguments about why you shouldn't raise your hand for these messages. Now, let me draw your attention again to one very simple fact. This information has been done by my colleague, Mrs Ivana Nevludová, in her own public works and is essentially about only two contracts. Both of them have failed absolutely in the control mechanisms of the Czech Television, both of them do not smell remotely of corruption, both of them are very suspicious, and if they did such a thing - and now I have no reason to stand up for the government movement YES - any of the companies that are not owned by our prime minister, I can imagine that it is from the pirate bench that there would be a loud justified criticism. What I am asking you to do is obviously a very difficult thing for you, dear colleagues through Mr President, particularly here in the right part of the political spectrum. However, I would like to ask you to be honest and not vote in favour of the Czech Television's management reports just because you are happy with the news and publicity of Czech Television, as the Director General of Czech Television said today, when he again made his own commercial live. I particularly call on you, members of the pirate party, who - and I believe that - in many cases you are serious about your fight for transparency and corruption, so I ask you to at least take a break for the club meetings and the information we have presented to you today. Verify them, and if our information is wrong, we will be happy to apologize to you and we will no longer delay negotiations on these reports. But if you find that they are not wrong, I am asking you to vote against the final reports on the Czech Television's management because you have no chance of finding out what you are voting on. If we have found such serious errors with our limited resources, what will one day find the control of the Supreme Audit Office, which some part of the political spectrum and the leadership of Czech Television is so systematically and hard-hitting? What will you read in two in three years if you find the political courage to control the Supreme Audit Office? It took 15 years for the investigation committee to meet at OKD. When the committee of inquiry meets with the solar barons, which some Members here have allowed to rob our citizens of a trillion crowns, we can only argue about this. When and whether there will be an investigative commission for the activities of Czech Television or for the reasons of its bankruptcy, for the reasons of its liquidation, privatisation, fragmentation, collapse, we can only argue. But if you don't do your job honestly today, you'll never be able to enchant yourself by not having information and not having a chance to think about it. They're in your e-mail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u13	Mrs Valachová from the ČSSD club asks for priority rights, but there is a factual point and it should take precedence. We'll make one factual remark for two minutes, and then you'll get a word immediately. prosit, Mrs Kořanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'll be brief. I wanted to ask my colleague Volný, I said I would perform as little as possible, but I have to respond to that through you. I'm not gonna deny the speculation and the untruths that have been said here. I just want to ask my colleague two things. The first thing is that Mrs Nevludová mentioned this at a seminar that you all had the opportunity to see on the YouTube channel. She e-mailed us all and talked about it for about an hour. Then I don't know why you're repeating it here again. I take it only as obstruction. I think that's how the rest of the House feels about it, if they were even listening, because there was a lot of information. But I'd like to ask you to stop appealing to your colleagues, this time specifically from the pirate side. I think they can vote according to their consciousness and conscience and it's up to them and they have their own head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u15	The Member has withdrawn her application for priority rights, so that Mr Volný will be given time to take action. That's the last application for a factual remark so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u16	My colleague, through Mr President. Yes, all that information has been heard, but to this day virtually no one has listened to them, nor have you. I like your emotionally very calm reaction, which I really appreciate. That is why we have sent this information to all Members in an e-mail this time, with individual sources, so that you can verify the information and that someone here does not claim to me that this is speculation, because that is not speculation. You can verify for yourself when you open the computer, if you can, through Mr President, and you will find the individual resources. [[12.10 hours]] Otherwise, as far as my appeal to fellow Members on the part of the pirate is concerned, I think that is a perfectly legitimate and normal thing to do. I have already had a few appeals here, for example, from Mr Kalousek's absent colleague, through Mr President, to fellow Members of the YES, to take the courage and vote against the views of their President. I also remember one such funny note, when Mr Kalousek here simply said to vote against the proposal or against Mr Faltýnek's proposals, who is an important figure in the political scene that emerged from the ČSSD. I remember this. These appeals to vote in accordance with our consciousness and conscience on objective and rational considerations have been raised here, and I do not think that anyone would have the right, my colleague, to patronise me for this. It's perfectly legitimate and okay. And I'll do it again. I ask all your colleagues in the hall to study the information and vote in accordance with your better knowledge and conscience so that you do not commit any actions that might look like cover for crime in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u17	Mrs Kořanová will respond with a factual remark. So far, the last application, the next one will be prepared by Mr Klaus. Please, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u18	I'm so sorry about your colleague Valachová again. I can open the computer because if I couldn't, I couldn't open and delete my colleague Nevludová's e-mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u19	Mrs Valachová has already withdrawn her application, so I will now ask Mr Václav Klaus to speak, Mr Pavel Juříček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I would also like to comment on the substance of the matter, and this is the news of Czech state television. As the President of the post-November once said, I didn't come here to lie, so I'm also going to call things real names. One of the important factors that needs to be said is state television, it is argued by Members across the political spectrum. One enthusiastically, because the very strong support of state television allows them to reach 5.008 percent in elections, sometimes even a little bit more. Some criticize it again. And the debate got so wrapped up that some Members are trying to find specific cases that they would ask or point out, and they are being shouted at as agents and hybrid threats, and I don't know, something like that. So, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you our position on the Tricolor movement. We're not gonna support either of these TV messages, and the reason is a little bit different. I am absolutely convinced that the Czech Television Council is completely failing to fulfil its mission, and instead of being representatives of the public and possibly elected representatives, they are acting as a defence val of the management of Czech Television. I consider this situation to be unsustainable in the long run, and I therefore think it is polite not to support any of these reports. The TV really acts like a state in the state. The Director-General writes personal letters to all employees, where you are being attacked especially now that you mentioned something at the seminar, calling you liars and manipulators, and building TV versus MPs. I refuse to do this, if you don't mind. This thing... There are even members of the Czech Television Council who aggressively attack individual politicians as they perform. This politician's a jerk, he spoke badly, he spoke well. That's not their role at all. Their role is to ensure, when already, according to the current law, the balance of the news and the public programme. I'll get to that. In order to deal with this in principle, we will propose a law that will provide the voluntaryity of licence fees. This means that you, who are beating your head against the counter, can pay half of your parliamentary salary and someone else at their discretion to expose the debate about what is public television and what is public interest - to broadcast sports of disabled, serious music, cultural programs, or whether it is state golf, state entertainment and state forty-year-old crime. I think this will be very necessary, and we want to have this debate because it is about people's money, about state television. I'd appeal to you with a little bit of my previous speaker's style, because you're really insulted, we're not gonna point anything at you, you're gonna get these knives sharpened, and then you're gonna get one text message and you're gonna vote for it. [[YES to Members]] That's no way to do principle politics. A few of you heroically pull out that card, but this isn't gonna solve anything. So I am really calling you to a fundamental solution. We want to open the debate and open it by reading the law soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u21	I have a point of fact here. And then only Mr. Juříček, so we will take precedence in fact. Mr Tomáš Martínek will comment. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u22	Hello. I would just briefly like to correct the previous speaker that he is a public media and not a state media yet. I hope so. And I'd just as much like to say that Pirates want citizens to submit their initiatives to the Czech Television Council, for example, which must respond. They may also contact law enforcement authorities if they have specific matters. As pirát, we ourselves are presenting a proposal for a law on extending the powers of the SAO, which is intended to ensure independent control, and not only control by rather biased Members, and we will be happy if everyone votes in favour of this bill. In addition, I also requested from the representatives of Czech Television an opinion on the arguments put forward by Mrs Nevludová, so I have them here, and I will be happy to present it to the SPD Members, some statements which, for example, address the issue of over-expense. That's where it's about how to work with the register. If you look into the register, each contract can be identified as connecting the order to the relevant framework contract because the reference to the framework contract is given on each order. Therefore, it is clear from the above data on the contracting authority's profile that contracts of almost CZK 2 million were actually paid 920 500 as of 22 October 2019 and therefore no overdraft is carried out. I'll present the rest myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u23	I've got one more factual one. Mr Lubomír Volný and Mr Pavel Juříček will be prepared in the general debate. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u24	Thank you. I would like to say that I like the pirát' approach in quotation marks, which they have adopted very quickly from other established political forces as well as that the citizen has the right to complain that the citizen has the right to take any initiative. We all know that a citizen can complain and that he can take some initiative that may be solved in six months or a year by an organization that has a seven-billion-dollar budget in its back and is able to handle it very well. You are here today faced with a clear fact that does not at all refute any of this, i.e. the colleague's report that the Czech Television competitions are won by companies that do not meet the specifications. It has nothing to do with whether it has been filled at that level, at that level, at that level. That was supplementary information. Gros's information is that the companies didn't meet the specifications. They should never have won the competition. It was the only company involved in the tender. It won one IČO and now another IČO, another company without a tender, collects the money in the finals. Where are the control mechanisms of Czech Television, where it is on the news of Czech Television, how come the board doesn't know anything about it? And that's just two cases out of hundreds of contracts. So, yes, a citizen can take the initiative, a citizen can file a complaint, but today you have to decide whether the activity and management reports of the Czech Television are okay and whether they have your trust. It's your decision to take full political responsibility. And it is not that a citizen or a fellow Member will have to file a complaint and wait six months, three quarters of a year, a year and a half to be heard. You can do it today, so check it out. I beg you, without advice from the Czech Television politburo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u25	Thank you. Now, while there is not one government minister, the Minister of Culture of Zaorálek has asked me that he needs to go to the toilet, so he will return immediately. Only if someone objects. So let's get back to those standard applications. So, Mr. Pavel Juříček. I'll read one apology. Mr Roman Onderka asks to cancel his apology from today's meeting and will be present at the meeting at 12 o'clock. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that I should probably apologize to the entire House individually, and maybe apologize to the Czech Television, that I was probably the first to look at those annual reports of 2016 and 2017. And from that, when I suddenly saw these things completely analytically, then step by step I started to look at trends that started since 2011. I've actually told you this place verbally, so just to be clear, I've prepared tables that I can show each of you, and they're just written numbers from the annual reports. This is what the official management of Czech Television has been like since 2002. [[He's showing the chart.]] Officially, according to the chart of accounts, seemingly balanced management, according to which the director then takes the special bonuses. I didn't touch them on purpose because I really wanted to maintain complete personnel neutrality. Here I can show you what real management looks like, again since 2007, where there has been a surplus of 828 million, in 2008 in surplus of 1 137 million, in 2009 499 million, 2010 229 million and 2011 398 million. It's obvious here. [[He's showing the chart.]] And what happened all of a sudden? After 2011, for several reasons, advertising and the like, all of a sudden, but not only because it has fallen or fell into a deficit of 251 million, and since then, since 2011, it has been constantly operating in deficit financing. Those are just written numbers from the individual annual reports. Only in the time series. It's undisputable. The deficits move around CZK 250 million to CZK 550 million a year. Here again, I'll show you a table of how money is lost from financial assets or from accounts. [[He's pointing.]] Yes, Czech Television doesn't have loans, that's true. He doesn't have any debts. She had the money in 2011 in the amount of nearly CZK 3.9 billion and now she has a billion 962 million with securities counting. So almost CZK 2 billion has actually gone out of financial assets. If we subtract the securities, it's 31 at the end of the year. 12. 2018 in the accounts of a billion 891 million. We were told repeatedly at the seminar that the property was growing. Please, it's not true. Here you can see the relationship between assets and financial assets. That's how it is. So the slump is obvious. When we spoke at the seminar on investment and depreciation, I again took the liberty of drawing up a table on the mutual relationship between investment and depreciation. Yes, what I said last week is that depreciation is higher than investment, and Czech TV doesn't even do simple reproductions. Although some investments were made, significant investments in hundreds of millions, but according to some editors who also contacted me, perhaps the use of Brno's study is 12%. I don't know which entity that organization can afford to finance hundreds of millions to make a study, which will then be charged 12 percent. And I could go on like this. I deliberately did not go here to publish a number of various other and other details, although my colleague Nevludová, through the President, found a number of other and other errors. However, I would like to go back to what caused it. It caused the director or the Czech Television to publish that the seminar, which clearly demonstrated what has already been said several times, does not serve as a supervisory body of Czech Television, although it is undoubtedly noble people in its fields. It said here that the draft seminar organisation came from the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček, not Czech Television. I can show you a letter when Mr Dvořák asks on August 7th: 'Mr President' - that is, Radek Vondráček - and asks him to call this seminar. [[shows]] It says: "I am turning to you in connection with the discussion of the annual reports on Czech Television, which will be on the agenda of the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In a transparent discussion on these documents, Czech Television is ready to answer all questions from the public, i.e. representatives of the Chamber of Deputies. Following the above, I would like to ask you for the opportunity to mediate the appropriate space in the Chamber of Deputies." And so on and so forth. However, it does not matter what we call it, whether a barbecue or a seminar, or how or simply a request for a meeting with Members. I don't think it's necessary to take care of the word-talk right now. Subsequently, for what happened, the director asked me to publish an audit. I said it was a pillar or a foundation that I worked out for myself, where I asked six questions. And in those questions, I just asked the auditor the questions I expected him to answer. And he replied the same way as my deduction, or my analysis. Subsequently, when the Director invited me to enter an audit to identify the topics and issues relating to the management of Czech Television, which merited a public debate: "I also believe that our common aim is to keep this discussion in a factual and transparent manner." So I actually called on the director by letter after meeting him here, so I asked him by letter that I was ready to speak with him on Czech Television and to discuss the annual report publicly and transparently. Yes, the final sentence: "I believe that you will accept my offer and that this is the best way to avoid inaccuracies that bring unnecessary nervousness to society and at the same time keep the discussion really in a factual and transparent manner. " The conclusion of my letter. Well, the director sent me a letter on Monday saying he wasn't avoiding any debate, but he, as CEO, couldn't attend this discussion because the Czech Television Code applies. In other words, he politely rejected my offer to discuss it publicly together. [[12.30 hours]] So it's just a short genesis of what I've been through, and I was very uncomfortable knowing that I was starting a hybrid war or that I was a normalizer and that I wanted to normalize somehow. já, the son of an opportunist who was in custody at any moment. And I wasn't allowed to study because of my dad, even though I was first in primary school, and I had to go to school. So I would certainly be the one who very much appreciates that we have freedom and freedom of expression after 30 years, and I thought that I too have the freedom to express myself as a citizen, and as a citizen, I have worked up some support material that I just wanted, so if my deduction and my reasoning really are correct - and what did it do? So what I'm thinking is, the way I read you here and the genesis problem, it shows that something really isn't right in the state of Denmark. And I think that, as I have also discussed with Mr Gazdík through the President and a number of other Members, that it is certainly not for one Member to process analysts in depth, even if I may understand something, but I do not patent on reason, but the numbers are relentless, so that it would be right that an independent or Supreme Audit Office should be able to actually control Czech television. But I would point out that I don't think he'll be able to say such a lean management, lean production, that he'll be able to say these principles that work in well-managed organizations. But no doubt it will be a big shift to avoid all the disputations and discussions about what is right and what is wrong. And whether Czech Television applies public procurement laws and laws in terms of sound management. So I think it is urgent to adopt the law so that the SAO can also control Czech television. Thank you very much. Finally, I would read in my next speech the potential resolution that we could adopt on Czech Television. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u27	Now I'll read two apologies. Mrs Helena Válková apologizes between 14.30 and midnight - you see, you are already predicting - because of the doctor's visit. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Mr Milan Hnilička apologizes for the meeting of the House on 24. 10th, today, between 12.00 and 12.30 for work reasons. Now, factual remarks, I have three, but, Mr. Ambassador, you're second in line, so just a little while. [[Martínek]] Mr Lubomír Volný will be first, Mr Tomáš Martínek will be next and Mr Petr Gazdík will be the third. So three factual ones and then Mr Lubomír Španěl will be prepared in general. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u28	Thank you. I just wanted to say that we're really living in an interesting time. The director of Czech Television will reject a transparent debate with a legitimate opponent on the Czech TV screens while with the same person, and it was said here at the last meeting, he met privately at a restaurant in the Chamber of Deputies to lobby for the adoption of news about the Czech Republic. So he rejects the public debate, but half-secret meetings are conducted by the director of the Czech Republic and other members of the ANO movement on the eve of the vote on the ČT reports. And then he comes to Czech Television on his own without an opponent to defend his own opinions, and that seems ethical to him. This is such an interesting time when one and the same person do similar things and according to his own decision once it is ethical, once it is unethical and it is okay. The second thing is that - I completely understand my colleague Juřiček through Mr President that he has not published the author of the audit. I don't know if that's his real motivation, but I wouldn't publish the author for a very simple reason. Because at the moment you publish this author, all Czech TV dungheads would immediately be directed at this company and all the stars of the CT's investigative programs would try to find anything to discredit this company in the eyes of the public. We all know it works that way, and this debate on the news of the ČT is a beautiful example of this. You focus on the numbers, you focus on the facts, but you are a hybrid threat to fellow Members as well as to Czech Television as well as to the CEO of Czech Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u29	Thank you for keeping the time tight. So, Mr. Mr. Tomáš Martínek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u30	I would just like to make a brief statement on the invitation and response to the public debate, because Czech Television published a full text of both letters in its Twitter account a moment ago, so I would perhaps quote a part of Mr Juříček's letter. "... I would like to ask you this way for a public discussion broadcast in the Czech Republic, which would take place between me and you on live television. For example, I can imagine a special edition of Václav Moravec's questions on Sunday's broadcast dedicated only to this topic." And so on. - Answer, the whole letter: "Dear Member, allow me to respond to your letter in which you ask to hold a lively discussion, e.g. on the series Questions by Václav Moravec on the statements on the annual reports of the Czech Television Council and on the management of the Czech TV for 2016, 2017. I'm not avoiding any debate. But the general director of public service television can't be a newscast dramaturgist. This does not allow the Czech Television Code, which protects editorial autonomy of reporting. The editorial decision on the content of the news is in full competence of the editors in the news editors." It follows to me that the invitation was not rejected if, for example, you organized it yourself or on other televisions or even decided to do so on TV ČT yourself, but rather to prove that Mr Dvořák himself complies with the code, where he cannot influence the broadcast of the news and to place on the request of some broadcasting policy which he wishes. That wouldn't be public television after that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u31	Now I have a number of factual points here. I'll read the order so that you, colleagues, can prepare. The co-workers aren't here with the applications. So it is Mr Gazdík, Mr Španěl, Mr Stanjura, Mr Juříček and Mr Volný. But I also applied for Mr Juříček. So please, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u32	Good morning, dear colleagues. I would like to confirm that Mr. Juříček and I have actually put our hands on the fact that YES as the strongest party in the House and the Mayors as the strongest club in the Senate will try to change the law so that the SAO can control Czech television. I can't identify with the fact that there's some audit-no-audit that someone we don't actually know who did. At the same time, we have an audit of the relevant Czech Television, and here we are concerned about the fact that many media groups own different oligarchs, including the current Prime Minister, who, although he has his media in a trust fund, was also previously the owner of them. So there will be no public Czech TV. Without wanting to hurt any of you, I think some of you are just trying. Let's separate two things from each other, that's management, and the second thing is that the Czech Republic needs public institutions that guarantee independent journalism. And I also wish, given what some colleagues here are saying, that they would understand what our role as Houses is. Our role in the House is not to perform the function of the ČT Council. It really isn't. And when the Volný Member here, through the President, talks about various dungeons - don't be angry, colleagues, but I hear those dungeons from you on Czech television rather than the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u33	Mr Lubomír Španěl and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared to make a point of fact. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try it in two minutes, because I'd never have to get to the floor. I was talking here last time about how many minutes or hours the audit authority has devoted to the ČT's management report. But then I thought to look at the education of individual councillors and also those who reportedly studied the report honestly. Not with all the councillors, I managed to get an education, but I didn't find anyone with an economic education. No one who could professionally evaluate the ČT's management. I did not illustrate all Members in the Chamber of Deputies, but Mr Juříček, as the only expert who commented on the report, came to me. Some, including myself, could study the report not for hours, but for years and the result would be the same. I therefore argue that in the current situation, ČT's management is not effectively controlled. And I just have a footnote here that I will look forward to seeing what the rapporteur will find in the 2018 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u35	Am I to understand your opening statement that you are withdrawing your application to the general debate? [[Member of the Spaniard off the microphone: Yes.]] That you've already made your point. So I'm gonna kill you. And now the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u36	First, the reaction to the previous speaker. He actually told us that there are Members among us who are unable to evaluate the Czech Television's 7 billion-dollar economy if they had been doing so for years. The same Members vote on a budget of 1,600 billion. Let's just compare. It's the word-telling. Mr. Juříček says I won't speak when someone wants to borrow an office, so of course he means to organize a seminar. I don't quite get it, but okay. It's a clear shift. On the other hand, Mr Juříček certainly knows what an audit is. He had a comment made on publicly known sources, on the balance sheet and the profit and loss account, or on the annex to the financial statements. It's not an audit. And he knows that very well. He knows that very well, and here he tells us: I have an audit. I don't need to publish it because it's not an audit. I don't care who wrote it. The comment can be written by Mr Juříček, myself, the rapporteur, here Mr Dolínek, and it will be a commentary on public information. So someone here said that some people are mistaken... and that they don't want to replace advice. But we've heard a lot of the advice here. Many shadow CEOs or at least financial directors of Czech Television have performed here. Then go do it. I'd like to pick a topic, an opponent, and go to the Moravc on Sunday. I'd like that! I'm in! So let's say that either it's going to be a proportional system, so there's going to be eight ANOs, three ODSs, maybe eight Mr. Juříček gets there if he wins a duel inside the club, and we'll determine who's going to host it with. I'd pick the host if I could. Someone who'd be nice to me, and he wouldn't be nice to an opponent. That'd be great. And in case someone doesn't suit me, I'll say, that's not ethical. Look how scared he is! He's really scared! So these ideas that the MP decides who he's going to debate with, so I'm in. [[Time warning]] But I find it completely absurd. Completely absurd. And then weeping here, they didn't listen to me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u37	Time, Mr. Chairman. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Time passes. Thank you. Now, Mr. Juříček, with a point of fact... [[Vice-President Okamura off the microphone: No. Me and then Jurassic.]] Okay, so President Okamura with a point of fact, then Mr Juříček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u38	I have to respond here to the lie that was heard here from the mouth of the CEO of Czech Television Petr Dvořák. Here's a quote that says he's not avoiding discussion. But he's avoiding her. In public, he has been invited many times to TV Barrandov to disprove the live broadcast, he has been invited to the discussion, live - it seems to me that it is not funny - to stand up to Jaromír Soukupa live and there to argue as far as their complaints are concerned. [[Laughter from the right]] And the CEO of Czech Television refused. No matter what you think, I'm reacting to the sentence that he said he wasn't avoiding discussion. Nothing more, nothing less. He's avoiding discussion! And the CEO of Czech Television refused to go there because he would argue with such a strong opponent, who is prepared that, of course, it would not be appropriate for him. [[Laughing in the hall]] And now all of a sudden, he's offering a different discussion, with him on television, which he's going to host, and the topics are going to be determined by his employees, which he has a direct influence on financially, even in the form of rewards and so on. This is the idea of democracy Czech television. So it's exactly the opposite. On the contrary, I call on the Director-General if he wants to discuss accepting the invitation of Jaromír Soukup and going on live TV Barrandov, even in the presence of Mr Juříček, let it be on the third floor, let it not be with him. That's a fair offer. Moreover, I still have to strongly oppose the next and most recent quote from the CEO of Czech Television. He said in the interview that - quote - even though Miloš Zeman and Tomio Okamura are not members of our fan club, we give them a chance to speak to their constituents. They're giving you a chance? Almost three million voters Miloš Zeman and over half a million SPD voters pay him concession fees, and he arrogantly gives us a gracious chance?! [[Attention on time.]] This is unbelievable!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u39	It is now Mr Juříček's turn. Before I give him my word, I'll introduce you to an apology or a partial cancellation of an apology. Mr Jaroslav Dvořák is already present and therefore only apologizes for the time of 11.15 to 12.30 today. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u40	I swore I wouldn't respond to different colleagues, but I have some things to clarify. Firstly, I suggested to Director Dvořák that, for example, in the questions of Václav Moravec, and my letter explicitly shows that he should choose any format for the discussion. And to be honest, I have to admit, my head isn't really picking up on the fact that it doesn't want to discuss the annual reports and the management of Czech Television, and at the same time this morning, it's still performing on Czech TV and talking about the programme targets for the following months. So I can't help but feel like it's really avoiding discussion, because, actually, those aren't my numbers, but those are his numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u41	Now, with another point of fact, Mr Lubomír Volný, Mr Zaorálek, Kalousek, Dolínek will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to see you through to a colleague of Mr. Gazdík. The Council is supposed to control Czech TV and I ask myself a rhetorical question that we all know the answer to. Who is to control the Czech Television Council? It's us. It is us, Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic. And so I simply control the activities of the Czech Television Council. Here the word independent, apolitical, public is constantly emphasized, and yet we have purely political Czech television. The Czech Television Council is elected according to election results, coalition agreements, backstage political negotiations. And she said it here, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, your colleague, through Mr President Černochová, who said that the aim is to call off the board to hold a backstage meeting where some political forces will add their people to the council. So, please, don't deny the words of your party colleague. It's a politically elected body. And I'm here for a while, but I know what fights are going to be about who's going to be on the board. They even call for demonstrations. On the day of the discussion of the news about Czech Television, the director of Czech Television was able to arrange for direct entry on Czech Television, which I personally see as direct political pressure on all Members who are to vote on these annual reports today. It's direct political pressure. He avoided any other discussion, but he himself goes directly to the House to approve these reports. And we all know what the political situation in this House is. The Prime Minister is afraid of the Czech Republic's organized demonstrations, it suits the political direction of Czech Television, so the pirát will also close their eyes to the corruption of Czech Television. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u43	Mr Lubomír Zaorálek and Minister of Culture. The chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. Minister, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u44	Thank you. Good noon. I only wanted to respond to one moment of the contributions that were being made here this morning, and they were related to the board members, because I have repeatedly heard reservations about the board members. It was even said here that the question was whether they had competence or not. I would just like to point out, colleagues, those council members were elected under the law adopted by the House. So those council members, that's our work. Of course, we can ask ourselves the question: comrades, where did we go wrong? But otherwise, I would like to point out that it is not so easy to come up with a way to choose advice so that we can all enjoy it. That's really hard. When you start researching it, you'll find there's no easy answer. And I even got the job of watching the five-hour seminar that was here, so I listened to it to see if there really were any legitimate reservations about those board members failing. I'll tell you that I wasn't particularly impressed by the fact that if I was a board member and if the House weren't actually discussing the news all the time, so they didn't really have a lot of ties, and suddenly they're just gonna have questions about the type of thing that bothers us about the chalk paper, or even about how much a party cost in Karlovy Vary, so as a board member, I'd be looking at it like a puck, that's what I was supposed to be watching. Do you understand? As I would say to myself, it's not easy for me to guess what's bothering the House. That she's upset about chalk paper or that she's upset about the price of it... Let's just remember that the mistake is on our side, too, that it wasn't discussed, that it wasn't mentioned here. That we don't have a media policy today, that's what's going on with our... So I think that's our assignment, too. And that the debate, I wouldn't want to judge her, because she, I think, is needed. Even if it's delayed, it's necessary. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] But what's going on here, the SAO and all that, it's the roads, but let's become more understandable to the advice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u45	I beg you to keep your time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Member Miroslav Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly respond to the words of Vice-President Okamura and present a procedural proposal. Vice-President Okamura said that Director Dvořák avoided discussion because he refused to join Jaromír Soukup. I don't want to say anything, but I'm saying that it's really not the same thing to avoid a discussion and avoid an individual named Jaromír Soukup. This is a natural shieldy reflex of a decent person, not avoiding a debate. Now, let me put forward a procedural proposal that we do not announce the lunch break until we vote paragraphs 113 and 114. [[prints]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u47	We will therefore vote on this procedural proposal. I shall call the Members to the Chamber. [[The chairman is gonging.]] I'll check you out. [[Once again, the President is gonging. Members are coming to the ballroom.]] So I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. Mr Miroslav Kalousek proposes a procedural proposal for us to declare a lunch break only from the vote of the Houses of Press 113 and 114, i.e. paragraphs 245 and 246. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 171 registered 154 Members, for 127, against 1. The motion was accepted. So we're going to continue continuously. We continue with factual remarks. I have a Mr. Petr Dolínek registered here. He will prepare for Mr Lubomír Volný and Mrs Pěnčíková. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u48	Thank you. I wanted to respond as a rapporteur. But there are things I want to comment on as a Member and as a rapporteur. Mr. Director Dvořák certainly does not avoid any public debate because, by its nature, the electoral committee is public in the presence of the management of Czech television and Czech media. The fact that someone decides that it is politically interesting for him to try to conquer Czech television, public media, is the problem of the person who did not come to the public debate, where public news was subsequently publicly voted on, public media. That's the first thing. [[Huge noise in the hall. I can hardly hear!]] Second thing. Here we see that those who argue against Czech television, I do not mean as a whole, but some segments, it has to be distinguished, so they say that it doesn't matter whether it's a space or a seminar, an audit, or an analysis, or a comment that it doesn't really matter. They came to announce their worldview, their view of some part of the segment concerning Czech Television. And when someone tells them something's different, it doesn't matter. At the same time, similar people accuse us of not wanting to look at it with their eyes. I think that a number of us are looking at this right now with an emphasis on detail, and it's important. Therefore, I would like to stress - I can leave aside the fact that Kohal Taxi meets the qualification requirements that the required contract has not been exceeded, that Helios Tupper and Leading was qualified by the Brano Group and Electro online, and we can discuss and disprove the matter here for an hour. And it's necessary because the platform is an election committee. None of these colleagues gave a single written document or one of their speeches on the electoral committee, and they are now here. I firmly believe that they will do the job more responsibly around the 2018 report, and they will give us the documents not only during their discussions but also outside. The committee is certainly prepared to discuss these matters, but it needs to present them seriously as other initiatives that we are receiving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u49	I'll read one apology. Václav Klaus apologizes from 13:00 to 15:00 today for reasons of work. I have three factual applications: Mr Volný Member, Mrs Pěnčíková, Mr Nacher. So, Mr. Volný to De facto. He's not present, so I'm canceling. Now, then, Mrs Pěnčíková. [[The MP's in the hall.]] So you're present? Mrs Pěnčíková cancels. So Mr. Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say to the absent minister, Mr Zaorálek, that there is a very simple way to give the most important advice, among which all the great media councils belong, is simply a direct choice, a one-wheeled direct choice in conjunction with any other election within the Czech Republic, which takes place practically every year. So, as there is no problem changing the Senate, there would be no problem changing the individual major media councils in the Czech Republic. And I dare say that would be apolitical, that would be democratic, and that would really be public. On the presentation by Mr Dolínek through Mr President, I would like to say that I may have misunderstood this, but I was to check with the President of the Election Committee that the electoral committee's partner is not the Director-General of Czech Television, the electoral committee's partner is the Czech Television Council. And lashing out that, like, 2.5 million people could come to a public meeting of the electoral committee, that's literally embarrassing, because 2.5 million people definitely won't fit in that room. Public performance live is certainly something other than a public appearance at a committee meeting, which only a few of the chosen and those who are very, very active in politics know about. So I'd rather not use that kind of ridiculous argument here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u51	Mr Patrik Nacher is now prepared for Mr Vojtěch Pikal, with a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u52	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to my colleague Dolínek, because now I don't know who all this was meant for, because I was the reporter of the management reports, I did a detailed report on 2017, and I will also read it here with my remarks, including my questions, including certain questions I had. Since it was kind of general, in the election committee, my colleagues didn't draw attention to it, so I put the questions and suggestions in the depths that I could have been able to do in the annual report. Just so it doesn't stay in the wind somewhere. So if a colleague meant all or just some... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u53	So far the last de facto, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u54	I am terribly sorry to be performing, to all those who are waiting for us to vote, but I have to respond to the factual remark that has been made here, to the proposal for a direct choice of media councils. Perhaps it would be democratic, although, of course, it depends very much on setting up the system, whether such a choice would respect not only the wishes of the majority, but also the legitimate interests of minorities, how this democracy should, of course, work. But I definitely have to turn against the fact that the final council or the resulting election would be apolitical. On the contrary, it would necessarily be very political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u55	Now, in the general debate, Mr Pavel Juříček, as the last person to sign up, I do not have any more applications at the moment. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u56	Yes, thank you. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to keep you, but I would like to say what Director Dvořák quoted. Quote: We are not in a situation where we do not know that Czech TV's financial resources are somehow disappearing and that we need to find a solution that will be after 2021. - Indeed, this quote was given by the director at the seminar on October 8th. I just want to add that the figures of the Czech Television Board's reports on the Czech Television's management are verified by the statutory body, I did not come out of other documents, and they have been permanently since 2012, as I have shown to you, are deficit even until 2018, the trends are absolutely obvious. Furthermore, from these figures - the word 'numbered' - it also follows that the current operation of Czech Television is sustainable until 2021, as the Director-General himself said. Those are the facts that we should all agree on because they are indisputable. However, our views differ in how to deal with this situation. Some of us suggest rejecting the news about the Czech TV as false, some of us of course want to approve it. To approve and to do - I am sorry, I certainly would not touch that you would not be wise people, but if you want to be blind in this regard or you can't add or subtract, or maybe you don't really want to read these things in depth, then you will vote in favour. I'm bohužel so. I cannot vote in favour of this from the perspective of the annual reports. And otherwise I have to say that some of the Czech TV shows are very popular, such as Mr. Stacho's Hyde Park Civilization, it's an excellent show, or children's shows are of course excellent, for all our children or grandchildren look forward to it. But that doesn't mean that when some things have positives, there's really something wrong, what I've been trying to prove to you. [[Isn't it?]] In a detailed debate, I would like to draw up a motion for a resolution which may be such a compromise proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u57	Thank you. That is all in terms of applications for the debate at the moment. There is still a factual remark from Mr Volný, the only one at the moment. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know if I'm gonna break the Rules of Procedure if you stop me, but I didn't have time to respond to your appearance before, so I'd like to personally tell you that we are voting politically today through the media council. And very often, at least some of us choose them under the brutal political pressure of some organizations that are organized by Czech Television politically. On the contrary, the direct choice of media council members, the unicycle choice, in the course of, for example, some elections that take place nationwide, which would be no problem, would be absolutely apolitical if individual candidates were banned from supporting political parties. The only thing that would matter here is whether this House would like to stop controlling Czech TV or not to stop controlling Czech TV. And this House wants to control Czech television politically, and it plans to, and it wants to maintain that right. This House does not want to hand over control of the Czech Television to those to whom it actually belongs, to those who pay licence fees. Those who will vote in favour of the ČT reports today want to maintain political control of the Czech TV so that they can manage it and influence it through the people deployed by them, so that citizens of this country are not allowed to control this advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u59	This was probably the last speech in the debate. If no one else is reporting for the debate, I am ending the debate at this point. I ask if there is an interest in the final words from the rapporteurs in this merged debate. Please, Mr. Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u60	Thank you. First of all - I think what we have done here in the last few months in these various parts of the discussion has been a confirmation of my initial view that the report on the activities and management of Czech television should not be fundamentally combined. I said from the beginning, let's keep them divided, and it turns out it was very inappropriate. It doesn't matter now. But I would recommend that in the years to come, if it remains a similar system, it is strictly distributed. 'Cause at this point, things are basically coming together from the report, for example. ČT 24 is the most successful news channel in Europe, as well as the Czech TV sport that dominates European sports programs. Just as we didn't really deal with the share and mastery of, if necessary, how Czech TV - and in this I must say, that, subject to a minimum, colleagues from the SPD - managed for the first time after years of regional elections. That it was really recognised that, as far as possible, the Czech Television - not all of them praised, but it was said that the regional elections gave room to those who had the chance in the research, and it was not closed as it once was, that only government or strongest opposition leaders were getting there, etc. So these things are in the activity report. And unfortunately, we couldn't do so much to them because of the fact that, of course, there is a passion for the management report. As for the other thing, I could read some other data. There is probably the most interesting thing that roughly, according to the survey, 56 percent of the population say that television transmits a true picture of reality. But I think it also shows the debate that is here. It's not 100 percent, 70, it's not 30, it's 56 percent. I guess it shows the full extent of the discussion. On the other hand, when you look at the ratings of some shows, it is rapidly higher, so luckily not everyone follows the way they believe in the news, but according to the quality. And again, I think that Czech television - and it has not been called into question here - as rapporteur, I would like to say that it has a number of quality things in the field of filmography, in the field of documents, in the field of entertainment programmes. And that's where a lot of the money goes, and it wasn't called into question. So I would like to say, as rapporteur, that the resolution for the committee - and that resolution is that the committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies approves the Annual Report on the Czech Television's Activity in 2016 according to the Parliament's Press 113 - it is voteable that the report on the activities has been discussed here, albeit in this form, and I firmly hope that it will be adopted. I would just like to finish by saying, for example, today we are, for example. One law was discussed very quickly at first reading. I do not want to deny committees any chance of long-term discussion, but because I know there are several versions of the SAO Act and the versions have been discussed for a long time, so if you look, I recorded last week with my colleagues press 626, an amendment to the SAO Act, which contains only one thing, and that is that Czech Television and Czech Radio can be checked. This means, if it is such a great desire for this hall, we can continue to discuss the other laws, there are also municipalities, regions, so I understand the complexity of the discussion. This legislation can be discussed fairly simply and I thank you for the assurance that even the senators would certainly help quickly. So I thank and repeat that the motion for a resolution and recommendation is to approve this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u61	Thank you. So that was the final word for the merged debate. The second rapporteur is also interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u62	Thank you for the floor. I would like to read the resolution on the management of Czech Television for 2016. This is Resolution No 19 of the 5th meeting of the Election Committee of 27 March 2018. Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies after hearing the opening words of the President of the Czech Television Council Ing. Jan Bednář, Mr Patrik Nacher's report and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies approves the Annual Report on Czech Television's Finance in 2016 according to House Press 114'; II. Instructs the President of the Election Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies on the Annual Report on Czech Television's Management by the Election Committee in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u63	Thank you, too. So it was the final words after the general debate. At this point, I do not see any proposals that we should vote after the general debate, so this general merged debate is now ending. I have information that Mr. Nacher wanted to do something out of the way. So please, now's the time. And before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to an apology. Mr Špičák apologizes to us between 13 and 17 a.m. due to illness. Mr. Nacher, please. I was assured it was for something completely different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u64	I have only just found out about the vote of the very previous item on 21 August that I have been there in the vote, that I have abstained. I'm the law... Because on August 21st, as an important day I support, I was probably not in the room, and by tucking it in, it was like a delay. So I've been brought to the attention now, so I'm reporting that I didn't stick around. Or I have it reported - delayed, but I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-004-902.u65	Okay. That was for the log. And now I'm opening a point.
