ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-005-040.u1	40. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies As usual, I will ask Martin Kolovratník, President of the Election Commission, to take the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-005-040.u2	Have a good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, and I report that I am traditionally prepared for the polls. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm sorry, there are a lot of voting points today. We have one public and then eight secret, part of which is the second round. Three and five points is the first round, including the debate. So I ask your attention, and I promise to be as brief as possible in my duties for the tapestry. The first vote point is publicly voted. These are proposals for changes in the composition of the House of Deputies. The election committee announced a deadline until yesterday, Tuesday, July 9th, 12 o'clock. It subsequently adopted the resolution per rollam number 133, which states these proposals by the MPs. In most cases, they concern new nominations for retired former colleagues who have become MEPs. As far as resignations are concerned, Adam Kalous's resignation is proposed for the ANO movement from the Permanent Committee on the Control of Military Intelligence. Further resignation of Helena Válková, also from the ANO movement, from the permanent commission for the control of the activities of GIBS. Finally, the resignation of Eva Matyášová from the Committee on the Environment, also for the ANO movement. Nomination to the Permanent Commission for the Control of the Operation of Military Intelligence for YES Karla Šlechtová, to the Permanent Committee for the Control of the Activity of GIBS for YES Robert králíček, to the Committee on the Environment for YES new Member Ondřej Babka, to the Committee on Social Policy for YES Eva Matyášová and to the ODS for the new colleague Petr Bendl, to the Organising Committee Milan Brázdil for the movement YES, to the Permanent Delegation of Parliament to the Inter-European Union Tomáš Kohoutek for YES, to the Agricultural Committee Petr Bendl. The Election Commission proposes a public election by means of a voting device. Please, Mr President, open the debate and then vote one vote on resignations and the other vote on nominations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-10-ps2017-033-02-005-040.u3	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. No one is in or out of the debate. The debate is over and we will vote on resignation first. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 50, 182 Members signed in for 161, against no one. We have accepted the motion for resignation. We will now vote on nominations as the President of the Election Commission has read them. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 51, 183 Members signed in for 165, against no one. The proposal has been adopted and we can end this point. Opening point number
