ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for a law on experts, experts' offices and expert institutes / House print 72/7/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 72/8. I welcome Senator Lumír Kantor among us, don't I? [[Yes.]] I ask that the resolution of the Senate and the refusal be expressed first by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. Before I give her my word, I ask for peace... I think the situation is calm enough. We'll wait till the table's clear. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Greetings to the House after the holidays, and I hope you'll be constructive. Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed leadership regarding the law on experts, experts' offices and institutes, House press number 72, has unfortunately not been approved in the Senate, although this bill has already made a number of changes from the Chamber of Deputies and the various complaints that have been quite numerous have been incorporated. I would just like to point out that the law that is now in force is 1967, and the law is no longer fully applicable. The aim of the new law is to stabilise and improve the performance of expert activity and to get a little bit of expert, who, as you can see, are juggling expert opinions in large, under control today. Different interests and opinions on the expert activity were innumerable -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u3	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you again and ask the House for peace again. If you have another topic to discuss after the agenda has been approved, please let the Minister present this proposal, which the Senate, the second chamber of our Parliament, has rejected. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u4	So such different interests and opinions on the expert activity were innumerable and the preparation of the new law was quite demanding, it took years, my predecessors started it and I basically went to the Senate to defend the proposal that passed through the House. The law of expertise has been discussed here in Parliament since the beginning of 2018, and the discussions over it have therefore been intense and extensive. On the basis of comments from the professional public and the constitutional committee, this law was partly recast. Now it is the subject of criticism by some senators, but I believe that the criticism is not fair and is somewhat oversized. This is not an adequate criticism, and it would be unfortunate if this law had not been passed in the end, because I think this country needs it and is calling for it directly. The main reservation raised by the Senate is the centralisation of the expert agenda at the Ministry of Justice. However, I must stress that the centralisation, this proposal, has just been recommended by the Constitutional Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and I consider the supervision of the Ministry to be more effective than the current supervision of regional courts. And as an argument, I have experience that the courts should, above all, judge and not engage in such administrative activities that are not theirs. Moreover, the Ministry of Justice is very well equipped for this control activity and has experience in these professions. At present, there is a department that is intensively involved in the expert's activities, and we also have advisory councils where expert questions are consulted, and where we therefore have the opportunity to hear and work through these comments. In these congregations we have experts in given professions. The current form of the law is the result of long-term discussion and also of a number of compromises. Knowledge interests are extremely different, and the only thing that connects them is essentially a demand for a higher financial valuation. I do not consider today's law to be functional, supervision of experts is not effective. I'm sure you have the privilege of watching from various TV reports. The system needs change and I believe that a new law would contribute to improving and stabilizing the industry. In view of these facts, which I have highlighted and which you have heard here several times, and I am merely repeating them, I would ask you to vote in favour of this law and to overrule the somewhat rash view of the Senate that has been biased. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. I will ask Senator Lumír Kantor to comment on the Senate's position as to why he rejected the bill. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, for the Senate of the Czech Republic, will allow myself to make an introduction to all three of the press that will follow, and then I will comment on the individual press. The above draft laws were discussed at the Senate plenary on 2 May 2019. Back then, two Senate committees had it. As a guarantee committee, the Constitutional Committee recommended the rejection of all three proposals, and the Committee on Health and Social Policy recommended that the bill be returned with amendments and that the House press No 73, the draft law on judicial interpreters, should not be discussed. And then we recommended that the third law be approved in the text referred to by the Chamber of Deputies. The Senate plenary approved the proposal to join the general debate on all the above-mentioned bills. [[15.40 hours]] Eight senators spoke in the general debate, one of them a senator twice. In the wake of the subsequent debate in the Senate plenary, all three bills were ultimately rejected. I, Lumír Kantor, with Senator Zdeněk Hraba, was responsible for the reasons on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. The amendments proposed by the Committee on Health and Social Policy were not finally voted out, given that the Senate decided to reject the draft bill. For the above reasons, therefore, for the Senate of Parliament of the Czech Republic, I politely ask the Chamber of Deputies to support Senate proposals, i.e. to reject the press 62, MP 72, 63, MP 73, and 67, MP 74. Now, about the law on experts and expert offices and expert institutes. The vote number twenty-four took place by voting from 67 senators in attendance to reject 39 senators, against the rejection of 4 senators and 24 senators abstained. The main reason for rejecting the law was the centralisation of the expert agenda at the Ministry of Justice as a political body. Furthermore, the broad scope of the proposed laws has been criticised, when, contrary to the legislation in force so far, the legislative text is actually being doubled. By disproportionate penzion obligation arising from the new legislation for experts and interpreters. Last but not least, draconian sanctions imposed on the basis of objective responsibility for the simultaneous abolition of administrative penalties. Then there are confusions, and controversy was also triggered by the limitation period of criminal record of expert opinions. And there have been some reservations about... such partial problems. For example, shortening the original length of the practice of forensic experts from a government proposal of ten years to a five-year amendment. For example, this could mean that a doctor who basically hasn't completed his post-school testimonials can already write judgment reports. It could happen like this. The discussion also raised voices supporting the adoption of the proposed laws, particularly in view of the need to adopt new legislation with an emphasis on the age of the existing laws. For the above reason, therefore, for the Senate of Parliament of the Czech Republic, I politely ask for the support of the Senate proposal, i.e. the rejection of the Senate press 62 and the parliamentary press 72. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Mr. Senator. And now I am asking the rapporteurs, first of all, the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Helena Válková, for the constitutionally-legal committee, if she wants to comment. Yes. Also, Mr. Vít Kaňkovský, if he wants to express himself. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have spoken a great deal about this law here. And then, if you remember, in the House, I also said that I am taking the task of meeting the objections that the Minister has spoken of. In the summer of 2018, we prepared, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, a comprehensive amendment, which concerns not only experts but also interpreters, and the House press 73, that is to say the related amendment laws. I think he was finally spoken with them... No, I think as rapporteur, he was also agreed with them on the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I was therefore very surprised that some colleagues persisted in their negative opinion, although informally they know and know very well how our current state of expertise, virtually. the situation in the field of expert activity complicates life. How some lawsuits are dragged out and how the ordinary citizen pays for it. Because, of course, when someone is either acquitted or when they're sued for a long time, then they ask for compensation from the state, then eventually we all pay for it. Rarely, not exceptionally, expert opinions are at the birth of these problems, which go against each other, and, of course, review expert reports must also be ordered. This is also due to the fact that there are no standards which would order experts to follow a certain procedure, so that, as for example, Mr Michálek's amendment, they justify the likelihood of objectivity and relevance of their conclusions or explain why they cannot be relied on, the conclusions of the expert opinion, 100%. Other proposals have been made by Mr Ondráček from the KSČM. So it really went, this law, across the political spectrum. And it would be unfortunate now if this judicial reform, because I call it - it is not just a reform of expert activity, but it will also directly affect the decision-making of the courts - or, in the sense of the word, judicial reform was the veto of the Senate, which is not well-founded. In addition, it uses an argument that is partly biased because it criticises something that was included in the proposal. See e.g. critical comments on the absence of decrees, refer to points that are not there or are in a different order. So if this proposal were not approved after so many months, actually two and a half years of effort, the whole job would go to waste. So I'm going to add to the recommendation that the law on experts and the closely related law on interpreters - I will probably no longer be the rapporteur for the interpreter bill, because this is directly linked and linked - and the related laws have been approved by the Chamber of Deputies, in the necessary number of votes 101. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Helena Válková. I'm asking if my colleague Vít Kaňkovský is interested, but I don't see him here. In that case, I am opening up a debate. But I have no written application for the debate. I see a colleague... So with priority rights Mr. colleague Michálek, then colleague Marek Benda. No, all right, Mr. colleague Benda, then colleague Michálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u10	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief statement on why we will not support the original resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and vote in this case with the Senate. I would almost say that it's not even the fault of any of those present in this room today. It's not the new secretary's fault. Undoubtedly, my colleague. Válková, in an effort to correct the bill prepared by Minister Pelikán, has done a great deal of work. And I'm not questioning him. However, I think that the standard of this character, which, as has been said here, brings reform in one part of judicial work, which is precisely an expert activity - we will get to the interpreter in the next point, where I may be even more critical - is to be processed really in the Ministry, with proper commentary proceedings, and not so that the former Minister has prepared something already in 2016, then he did not pass through the Chamber of Deputies, almost without any correction, without any effort to negotiate with individual professional groups, to hear all the parties that appear here, because the experts are really a great number of experts, in a number of fields, with a completely different size, whether expert offices, expert institutes, or the weight and size of experts. Some people are able to make a living out of it, some people just do some work sometimes. It's just very diverse, and it should have weighed much more carefully. [[15.50 hours]] I appreciate what she did to the case, Mrs. Válková. I think she tried to improve the bill. However, I think it would be better for the ministry and the government as a whole to rethink this. I simply disagree internally with the complete centralization that is supposed to happen by making all decisions at the Ministry of Justice in Vyšehradská. I find this centralization unfortunate. There are too many different types of experts, expert institutes, expert offices. And then, of course, trying to decide everything from one place to another, not to create at least minimal competition - and, well, maybe today there are arguments about whether the one who calls the court president too benevolently, the one who, on the contrary, is not too strict in the appointment of an expert or expert office. But the fact that we're gonna centralize it all in one place and we're gonna feel like it's gonna be much more objective, and I'm really worried about it, and I just don't believe it. I believe in a certain degree of competition all my life, I do not believe that centralization in one place is what will help us. For this reason, our parliamentary club will not support the original resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, it will support the Senate's decision. We believe that it would be best for the government, with what has already been done, to come back to the proposal again and again after due commentary and especially after the settlement of all those interest and professional groups, to come up with a revised bill. That is why we will vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u11	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, Mr Jakub Michálek in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u12	Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues, I have also performed here in previous debates. We are trying to maintain constructively according to the content of the proposal. As far as the basic idea of the Bill of Experts is concerned, this means that the supervisory activity over the experts should be centralized, so that is a matter that I absolutely support. Because the current system, when it is decentralized in those courts, has several serious shortcomings, including the fact that we as Members cannot deal with the submissions that we are about to receive, and when people, journalists, the public, complain about the way in which expert control takes place in some areas, or rather does not take place. Of course, we can't interpel here logically to the prime minister of the court, which would probably not really work. But if this activity is transferred to the Ministry of Justice, then the things, the suggestions, the comments we will be able to pass on to the Ministry of Justice, so that they exercise proper supervision over the experts. We all know very well that there are many pitfalls, reservations, and there are really big cases. There is a big problem with the fact that the valuation of experts does not correspond to the market level, the interest in people performing expert activities and so on. So, in this case, I am rather on the side that the proposal in the form that we approved it in the Chamber of Deputies should come into force. Because if we can't do the centralisation of the expert activity now, it's already in this, or in view, it's just not going to happen by the end of the parliamentary term, which would be a shame. We've managed to push through some of the things that I think are important. For example, the standard for a certain level of reliability of the expert opinion, so that it approaches some scientific level, so that it is easier to review, so that the judges can really rely on it and have a clear clue that these expert opinions may be reviewed. At the same time, I consider it necessary to talk about the law that is linked to this, because here we are essentially discussing one package, which is the House prints 72 to 74 - experts, interpreters and the amendment law. We all know that the laws, the House press, are so connected that we cannot afford a situation that we would approve one of them and not approve one of them. This is, of course, a very unpleasant situation, because we have raised rather fundamental reservations about the interpreter's law, we have pointed them out, we have made specific amendments, we have dealt with interpreters. Unfortunately, our proposals have not succeeded in pushing through the legislative process, and now that we are discussing the back of the Senate, it is no longer possible to correct the law in this way. But since these laws are being discussed in such a way that they are connected as Siamese twins, it is not possible to cut them in such a way and to bleed them both out - and we want the reform of the expert activity to take place - it is necessary for this moment that we also support the interpreter law, although our amendments were not incorporated there. We have, of course, acted - and I absolutely respect in this respect the reservations of the opponents that have been made about the proposal on interpreters, as I said. Even we were not satisfied with the absurd things that are there today, that the interpreter would have to at home in the camera to save the translations he had made, although they are already at the court or public authority that took them, so that the absurdities and reservations would be resolved, they would be destroyed. We discussed this with our colleague, Mrs Válková of YES. And if we get the promise that the amendment will come into effect together with the legislation, that is, if we really manage to resolve, correct the mistakes that are in the interpreter's law, then we, if we get the promise here, will support the bill, so that there is no chaos and both experts and interpreters are approved. But there really needs to be a clear commitment here from, say, the political part of the responsible government coalition, that these things will be corrected, because, as I said, we have serious problems with this. And if we don't have certainty, or at least some reasonable degree of assurance that the correction will take place, we can't support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u13	I thank my colleague Michálek. Now, the rapporteur, Mrs Helena Válková, then Mrs Richterová. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u14	Yes. So I respond to my previous speaker, Mr Michálek. I don't know if I can give any binding promises at all. But what I can promise you is definitely - because I know what the novel is, we had a discussion about it. It's about archiving for a certain period, from the original ten years it's reduced to three years. Even those aren't enough, I understand colleagues. I also spoke, of course, in the meantime with interpreters, some of them. So they don't see it so dramatically, I think. But they see it dramatically enough that they don't want to archive. So not that they don't want the law as such, but they don't want to archive it. At least if I understood it from some of the statements. So I am in favour of this because I think that compromises are to be made twice as much in politics as it does not change the content, the backbone, the system and the sense of reform. And that certainly doesn't change. That certainly doesn't change, I take that as a technical matter. So for myself, I'm proposing the amendment, if Mr Michálek and his colleagues prepare it, co-sign, like, I don't feel like I'm doing anything for anything, that it's some kind of business. I'm gonna feel like I'm reaching out to a professional group. And as far as I can tell, good relations with the Ministry of Justice, I think we're going to come to that consensus within that relatively long legisvacation period. And it will, of course, matter to the Members. And I don't think I can promise anything here, but for us, I can promise that we'll be kind to such a change. So for me, what I can promise, and what I can't promise, there's a certain trust in political culture. And legal. And that amendment would certainly not put the legal culture at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u15	I thank the rapporteur for her comments. We are now continuing the debate with the speech of Mrs Olga Richterová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, dear other members of the government present, dear colleagues, I would like to comment on this package of points, because the two laws really are Siamese twins, they cannot be separated. I had no idea when I was elected to the House that I would also use my original profession - and I am a trained interpreter, a translator. So logically, I have a number of colleagues in this field. [[16.00 hours]] I am not indifferent to the fact that our amendments that we have tabled have simply been swept off the table. I'm glad the Senate pointed out again that the mistakes really are serious. At the same time, we respect the need for an amendment to the Knowledge Act. I am pleased that Mrs Válková has actually promised her support to prepare a remedy for matters relating to judicial interpreters. This is the only way for us to avoid a significant threat to the public interest. I'll say something more about it. Perhaps, dear colleagues, many of you cannot imagine what the profession of a judicial interpreter involves and why it is all so crucial to guaranteeing the real right to judicial protection. The point is that it is necessary to interpret not only from common languages, from languages that really know where anyone but also from very rare languages. And that law is meant to fall on everyone. Similarly, please imagine that commercial interpreters, of course most of whom are working on the free market, commercial interpreters have a completely different rate than those interpreters do today. Only a small part of the interpreters do both. So we have to ask ourselves why, why don't they make commercial money by being forensic interpreters? And again, it's said here that maybe the evaluation isn't enough today. But they're absolutely incomparable even the conditions. There is simply something completely different, if you study interpretation, you're somehow taught to work with a certain type of client, and then you're supposed to meet the perpetrators of the crime, be available at any time. In short, the psychological burden is also negligible. And this is the standard agenda for court interpreters. I would like to reiterate once again that the interpreters already have both administrative and criminal responsibilities. And the proposal simply tightens the sanctions, and it doesn't actually treat the rights. It does not treat those imposed obligations to be proportionate to the conditions in the exercise of the profession. First of all, it's the archive, but it's all about other things. Once again, if there is a shortage of interpreters for a particular language, then the public authorities will actually rely on one-off appointments. And there is absolutely no guarantee that the one - time - appointed person will have all the professional qualifications to meet the requirement of independence and impartiality. Last point. I would like to stress that the overall impact of the current bill may be that it will simply continue to discourage, in particular, the lack of interpreters of rare languages, interpreters in the regions, and also, and this has not yet been mentioned, interpreters for communication with deaf, blind and deaf people. Even these interpreters are already in short supply. The only option for the pirát to vote in favour of the package of those two laws is indeed the promise that, even if we are prepared by the bill, along with the Member, Professor Válková, it will be discussed urgently so that there can be a remedy during the legisvacation period in these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Mrs Richterová. That was the last speaker in the debate. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Madam Secretary? Yes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u18	I would like to point out once again that the three laws are so interlinked that one cannot be without one another, so consider carefully as it is. And I would like to thank the pirát for the surprising constructive opinion, which I therefore appreciate, and I think that we must always think about what is essential and what is irrelevant. And the professor here has made it very clear. We're gonna miss a lot of things, we can reschedule it in the future. I'm not saying it's a world-class, totally right law, some things we can do and some little novels we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. I'm asking the senator if he's interested in the final word. That's right. I've already begun, Senator, so there's probably going to be a little bit more noise. [[Members are coming to the hall]] I will wait until I give you my word, because... it is important that those who are interested in voting on this bill are present at the vote. Calm down, please. Senator Lumír Kantor has the floor. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u20	Plus the Senate press 63, your press 73. On the bill on judicial interpreters and translators, 68 senators voted in the vote to reject 52 senators, 4 senators and 12 senators abstained. She turned to a large extent the professional public, an organization bringing together interpreters and translators, where the prevailing view of the proposed laws was strongly rejected. The most important complaint to the professional public was the disproportionate setting of additional obligations and the significant increase in sanctions in a situation where the remuneration of experts and interpreters is long-term insufficient. The basic lack of the Act on interpreters appears to be a simplified parallel of the law on experts and interpreters. Here we need to realize that the expert is not an interpreter, and vice versa. Each such profession has its own specifics. Almost identical law is completely inappropriate for the current 3000 interpreters mainly due to the proposed legal regulation of the profession of judicial interpreter and translator, it does not reflect the specifics of legally interpreting and legally translation activities. It requires more than mere linguistic competence. This profession significantly affects the performance of public administration and justice. The law lays down the conditions for the creation of an interpreter-translator's permission, but does not regulate further professional growth of interpreters and translators. Further vocational training is absolutely necessary and should also be imposed at least on a general level in the law. The possibility of refusing an interpreter's translation act is disproportionately limited. There is no guarantee on the part of the State that there is a constant supply of contracts and that most interpreters carry out their employment, other employment or a separate activity, so that this does not allow, for example, the amendment, to refuse the work to be done by an employed interpreter during his working hours and cannot refuse an act for which he does not feel professionally competent. The maximum rates of fines are too high, both in view of the nature of the offences and given that interpreters and translators are natural persons, of which a small part has significantly above average income. For example, in the area of so-called small languages, performance is limited to several interpretations or translations per year. She was in the Senate on 12. 8. 2019 Constitutioned working group from seven professional organizations with overlap into European space and small or sign languages. Other members are educational institutions and a group of senators. If the law on interpreters were rejected, the law would be adjusted according to the needs of interpreters in accordance with the needs and requirements of the Ministry of Justice. This is also possible when printing 62 and 64 of the Senate has been approved, without approval of printing 63. In the case of the approval of other prints, it will therefore be necessary to approve this newly proposed law literally within a year and a day. This is real because the efficiency is proposed at 1. 1. 2021. For the above reasons, therefore, for the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, I politely ask the Chamber of Deputies to support the Senate proposal, thus rejecting the press of Senate 63, Member 73. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u21	The final words were spoken. I'm gonna go on, I'm gonna go on one more time. And I have also received a correction of the apology for the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Mr Václav Klaus, today from 18.30 pm to the end of the day for personal reasons and tomorrow 11 pm. 9. from 9 to 13 hours and then from 15 to the end of the day for working reasons. We will take the vote. According to Article 97 (3) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 101 Members are required to agree on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution. We have - we haven't set yet - so we have set the necessary kvorum. We will decide in vote number 29, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of the adoption of the following resolution, that The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on experts, expert offices, expert institutes according to the House's press 72/7. Who's against it? [[Screams, restlessness, Members do not know what is being voted on.]] No, that's the Senate bill denied. It's all about... [[Dissenting speeches from the diaper.]] Let's do it again. [[Dissenting speeches.]] Okay, okay. I declare vote number 29 misguided. [[A Member of the Benda is approaching the speaker's counter.]] I understand Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u22	I please agree that the vote is misguided, and I will ask the Vice-President not to accelerate the negotiations in an artificial way. First, tell us what the vote will be on. Then start the voting device. The situation that we have now come to, that only during the vote, you are telling us what we are voting on, was really confusing for most of the hall. So I'd like to ask that we don't artificially try to get too...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-10-ps2017-034-01-001-001.u23	I, too, have declared the vote confusing. We will therefore vote in vote number 30 on this motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on experts, expert offices and expert institutes according to the House of Press 72/7'. I've started a 30-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 30: 182 for 107, against 32. The motion was accepted. I state that the bill has been passed. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the representatives of the Senate and the rapporteurs, and I finish point one. We'll continue with the next point. It's...
