ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-01-ps2017-026-08-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 26th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. I have Mr. Vrána's request here, voting card number one, Minister Hamáček voting card number two. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Babišová Andrea - working grounds, Běhounek Jiří from 11.30 working reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel - health reasons, Benda Marek - family reasons, Blažek Pavel - health reasons, Čižinský Jan - family reasons, Gazdík Petr - personal reasons, Hanzel Tomáš from 13 hours - working reasons, chovanec Milan - health reasons, Kalousek Miroslav - personal reasons, Kasal David - family reasons, Kobza Jiří - working reasons, Kováčik Pavel from 10.30 - personal reasons, Krutáková Jana - working reasons, procházkový Věra - foreign travel, Richterová Olga - family reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk - health reasons, Špičák Julius - family reasons, Vondrák Ivo - foreign travel. Members of the Government: Metnar Lubomír - working reasons, Petříček Tomáš - foreign travel, Plaga Robert - working reasons, Staněk Antonín from 10 to 12 hours - working reasons, Toman Miroslav - working reasons. Mrs Hyťhová within 10 hours for medical reasons. Today's meeting would begin with points 5, 145, 11 and 32. Then we should focus on the points from the block on the laws of second reading. Since the remaining two points of this block are interrupted by the time the committees are discussed, we should therefore continue the points of the block by the laws of first reading. Is there a motion to change the agenda? I don't see anybody, in which case we'll start with point No. 5. [[Noise in the hall.]] I will ask the Members of Parliament to register with their cards, to settle down, if necessary, and to lower the noise in the hall. Thank you.
