ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u1	229. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, eleven responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have seven more answers to discuss for today. I draw attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will now proceed to individual responses to written interpelations. The first interview is for Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš replied to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation on the electronic file. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 268. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. This condition is now met. I am opening the debate and I will ask the Member to give his intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u2	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly recapitulate the course of this interpelation, because since then - 10. 7. 2018, when I handed it in, quite a bit of time passed. In the interview, I asked about the extent to which the electronicisation of the state administration under the current government was carried out, i.e. how many central government bodies have passed and to what extent to keep the electronic file in electronic form and how many are still using the paper form of the files. I also asked about the specific measures the government intends to take. I received a reply to the interpelation, which unfortunately did not contain this information. Then we had a meeting with the Prime Minister and the Digitizer, Mr Dzurilla, where we discussed the approaches the government has to digitize. And I've also been informed that the government is processing an update, let's say some study of how the authorities are using electronic filing systems. The conclusions of this analysis should be available during March of this year, so I hope that, following this processed analysis, the government will take concrete steps that will lead to the electronicisation of the file service and to greater use, so that only the paper form is not used. I just wanted to add that, in the Chamber of Deputies, we have launched a pilot project concerning the electronisation of certain agendas on subcommittees that have digitalisation in their minds. Within the subcommittee on eGovernment and the subcommittee on the digitalisation of justice, a pilot project will be carried out for electronic circulation of the file, where the documents will be signed electronically, and the entire work process will be carried out electronically. So even here in the Chamber of Deputies, we're trying to make digitalization happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u3	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I ask the Prime Minister to respond to the interpelation that has been made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u4	So hello, everyone. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little surprised that the Member is not satisfied with the answers, because the Government Commissioner for Digitalisation and IT Mr Dzurilla has met at least ten times, as we have been informed, with Mr Profant, who is actually an IT man of the Pirates. And we had a 21st meeting together. 9. at seven o'clock in the morning, with Mr Dzurilla and Mr Michálek attending, and after that meeting, I was informed by Mr Dzurilla that the Member was satisfied. And, of course, we welcome the involvement of the pirát in the project. Pirates are also in the plenary session of the Information Society Council, so there is definitely an interest in cooperation. After the start of the first government 13. 12. 2017, the one with no confidence that ruled 205 days, so we thought it was one of the priorities, and that's why we appointed a government agent for IT and digitization 14. 2. 2018. Earlier at the Office of the Government it was held by the State Secretary for European Affairs and there was also Ondřej Malý on DPČ and basically there were some papers, but nothing happened. By naming a government clerk, he is much more serious than in the past with the resorts. [[9.10 hours]] The Ministry of the Interior prepares an analysis of electronic systems in which documents are processed. The aim is to comprehensively assess how, in particular, all requirements of the archival law and related legislation in everyday practice are fulfilled by the state administration. We also cooperate with the Economic Chamber and the ICT Union in preparing the analysis of the internal Ministry's written services in relation to the concept of Digital Czechia. The analysis of file services is carried out by more than 70 state institutions. The outcome of the analysis will be submitted to the Government at the end of March 2019. The analysis will include not only the current state of the file services in the state administration, but also the basic problems of the file services over the last ten years, as The Home Office has control reports from over a thousand inspections carried out by state archives. The analysis will contain clear legislative and practical recommendations on how to improve the public administration's written service so as to become a fixed point in eGovernment, it has fulfilled its purpose of the maximum electronic administration. With regard to electronic circulation, we are preparing again with regard to the concept of Digital Czech Services Analysis, which should be provided by ministries and authorities and plan a concrete plan when to digitize. We will prioritize, we cannot do everything at once, it is also the capacity on the part of officials and financial claims. We expect complete implementation plans by the end of 2019. It doesn't end in analysis, of course. With regard to digitization, we have started projects delivered in 2018. In January 2018, it was eRecipe; 14. 2. 2018, as has been said, a government agent for IT and digitalisation has been appointed; a regulation on the free movement of impersonal data in Europe was approved in June 2018; 1. 7. 2018 changes in the issue of driving and civil certificates that they can handle at any office; 1. 7. the national identification authority has been approved or identified, i.e. a state guaranteed identity for online services; 1. 7. 2018 electronic ID cards with a chip have been introduced; 9. 7. a citizen portal was introduced, i.e. a gateway to the online services of the state, a total of 37 services including the Czech Social Security Administration; In September 2018, the General Financial Directorate was attached to the citizen's portal; 29. 9. 2018 the eIDAS project has been implemented, this is mutual recognition of electronic identification means, the possibility of cross-border use of online services provided by public administrations of the Member States of the European Union; 3. 10. 2018 programme Digital Czechia has been approved by the government; 30. 10. The management of the Digital Czech programme has been approved for 2018; On 14 November 2018, the substantive intention of the Health Digitisation Act was approved; 14. 12. 2018 within the Citizen portal a preview of the land register and the connection of the driver's register, driver's points was introduced; 15. 12. 2018 benchmark, first comparison between ministries and administrative offices in terms of preparedness for digitalisation and their level; In December 2018, the presentation of the Digital Services Law, the legislative anchoring of digitalisation; In December 2018, Sonia's presentation, a banking identity for the state administration, will win 4 million clients to the state administration after implementation; In December 2018, the strategy for the use of artificial intelligence under our programme was approved by the Czech Republic, a country for the future; Furthermore, in December 2018, the memorandum on the use of blockchain technology; in December 2018 digitally technical map as the basis for the digitization of building management. Furthermore, we have started other projects started in 2018. Each resort started with respect to the Digital Czechoslovak programme the creation of projects to build online services. An example is in January My taxes portal to ensure electronic communication of tax entities with the Financial Administration, there is a deadline for completion in 2020. In June 2018, we started the ELVIS project, a national platform for electronic recording and management of museum collections, the term 2021. In 2018 the eHealth portal solution, comprehensive advice on services and methods in health, term 2022. In April 2018, the register of churches and religious societies, term 2019. Further in 2018, we started project eJustice, term 2020. Last year, the eSeL project, eLegislativa and eSummary, electronic Collection of Laws and International Treaties and electronic lawmaking. Furthermore, the project Czechiana, digitization of cultural heritage. Furthermore, the AISG project, a system for regulation of gambling, is very late. May 2018 registers 2.0, development of basic registers in order to support complete electronic submission. In July 2018, we started the trade register, electronic submissions for entrepreneurs and the collection of data from the basic registers. December 2018, the beginning of the project digitization of building management. In September, an electronic motorway stamp, term 2021. In September a uniform ticket, the possibility of using different carriers for one ticket, trains and buses, one application and eShop. Plan for 2019. Firstly, we have modelling and digitization of life events that we will digitize, standards for online services, portals and websites, a platform for active negotiations against the European Union, digitization and technology, call center, knowledge-based expert system. In the first quarter of the portal of the citizen, trade register and register of weapons, portal of the citizen, other services of ministries, regions, towns and municipalities. In January we made a new design and functionality of the data box. In June 2019 the digitization of the customs procedure using the certification authority, in September 2019 we plan the register of churches and religious companies, in September 2019 the payment gateway in the portal of the citizen, the possibility to pay online in the portal of the citizen for services, 2019 the launch of eGovernment cloud, and the strategy of the use of artificial intelligence and strategy and implementation of the project on blockchain technology. Those are specific things. Once again, until the reign of our government, until the appointment of a government agent, there was talk of it, none of it fell out. And I think I've read a very long list here, so it has a very specific support. By the way, we also organized a digital conference, the Estonian Prime Minister was here at my invitation, one of the countries that serves an example where people have 170 services and do not have to go to the authorities. Of course, our goal is to make life easier for citizens, businessmen, businessmen, in addition to digitizing the government, so that they do not have to go to the authorities in the future and, for example, to file a tax return as it is in Estonia in two minutes anywhere they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u5	Thank you. Let me read you a few apologies. Mr Marek Výborný within 11 hours for reasons of work, Mr Stanislav Fridrich apologizes between 9.00 and 10.30 because of illness. Mr Martin Jiránek apologises between 9 and 11 o'clock for the hearing, Mr Petr Sadovský from 9.00 to 10.30 for health reasons, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová between 9 and 11 o'clock for work reasons. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes from 9.00 to 10.30 for medical reasons, Mrs Lucie Šafránková from 9.00 to 9.30 for personal reasons and Mr Jan Farský from 9.00 to 11.30 for hearing. There. And I have a factual point here, Mr Ivan Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u6	Good morning, Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think I'm gonna comment on the enumeration of those we do things. I believe that if it's being watched by people who are IT literacy, they can make a picture of what's real, what's not, what's being delivered. But there was one thing that I would like to comment on, perhaps even ask the Prime Minister. I will not argue about any authorship right now, but I have heard something about the law on the right to digital service, which, of course, I would not attribute to the government, whose ministries are very much blocking this parliamentary initiative. They are therefore more like the ministries of other coalition parties, not the ones they have in the administration of YES. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether this law, which we have been preparing for many months in the field of the Chamber of Deputies, is supported by the Dzurilla Government Commissioner, despite opposition from the ministries in the context of settlement. If we can still count on Prime Minister Babiš to support this parliamentary initiative, because it is a key law for the future of digitalisation. It gives a clear plan on which platform the digitalisation is to take place in the future, how the ministries are to digitize individual services, and I fear that after many months of work, comments, commenting will eventually appear someone who will say, "No, gentlemen, gentlemen, experts from the commercial sphere, you cannot prepare this law, we will prepare it at our Ministry." I would very much hate to have this initiative come to nothing, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he will allow this initiative and this work, which is based on the entire Chamber of Deputies, from all sides, to have its support and will have its support in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Michálek is still in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm a little sorry that we're not focusing on the topics that are the subject of the interpellation, in this case an electronic file. Surely it is worthwhile that the government plans to establish a new register of churches and religious societies and to establish a new register of weapons, but when the election talks about slogans, such as bypassing documents, not people, people imagined that the government would introduce electronic files that would orbit those offices. Not to establish registers of churches and religious societies. So I thought the answer was a little off. I understand from this that we are essentially at a point zero, where we have no information on how the filing services work, whether they are electronic in central government bodies, and that, therefore, we are now focusing on putting together the data, and by the end of March, we should have this basic analysis. In that case, I would very much like us to see in April the concrete steps that will lead to the electronic file, that is, in particular, an amendment to the regulations that govern for example. the standard of electronic file service and the exchange of documents so that communication can be automated through the interface between electronic file service systems, and I hope that the plan that President Babiš here has read will also be included in the plan of the electronic file, because we have not seen it yet. There were other projects. I would hate to see it as if this project does not have priority, because for it to orbit, for the electronic circulation of the document, to orbit documents and not people among the authorities, that is an absolute necessity and a fundamental condition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u9	Thank you. I ask who else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. Mrs Valachová's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u10	I would like to respond briefly to the previous speakers. As far as the Ministry of Interior is concerned, both the digital service and the electronic file have the full support of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Jan Hamáček. I think the pirate party knows. As for the appeal to speed up the work on this work, I know that the Minister of the Interior also promised this directly to Ivan Bartoš, I was there through the President. And I would just like to add that these are big legislative works, and if this is put into the parliamentary initiative, the agreement that is being formed is certainly one of the options, so we will not have a well-developed regulatory impact assessment, which in this case is appropriate. And, of course, the government's proposal provides for this. However, whatever path, initiative, or government proposal, it is certainly true that the Ministry of the Interior has the ambition to handle this work during this term of office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u11	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u12	I would also like, through the President, to respond to my previous speaker, Mrs Valachová. I didn't name any ministry. Anyway, it's clear here where the will is likely to be very minimal. Of course, at the request of the ministries, we have provided an analysis of the impact of how the umbrella law itself, which we are actually preparing for months. There's so much chirping going on here that the Ministry would imagine that the law would be prepared on its own. I do not think it is possible for the Ministry of the Interior to prepare such a comprehensive law with its implications, which are inter-resortal, within its own department. Especially because we have seen these efforts, and over 20 years or 30 years after the revolution, there have been only three major projects that can be compared to this, which are registers, CzechPoints, data boxes. Experts are working on this bill. We asked all the ministries to comment on this before Christmas. We have received some 800 comments, where some actually talk about the fact that Members are incompetent at all to grasp the issue, let alone prepare something like this. The right to digital service is indeed a law that we are discussing with ministries, and it is the apparatus of the Ministry of the Interior that has not answered us the longest of all until we have pushed through the media that the interreort, that we are willing to deal with the comments by our own forces of all cooperating entities. So we look at eight hundred comments, we try to reflect them, some are therefore more or less obstructive, some are technical, some are factual, for those very thank you. We have the law prepared, we know what the impact analyses of the law itself and the implementing laws are. Unfortunately, we did not find this constructively addressed in some of the partners' ministries, that is the fundamental problem. And I am afraid that it will come to an end, which is why I am here to repeat the request, particularly towards the Prime Minister, so that this law, as prepared by experts not only in the ranks of Members, is simply supported, because this is the way we go about three quarters of a year, and the will of the ministries is minimal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u13	So now even factually, Mr. Michálek. Then, for a proper debate, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u14	Thank you for the floor. My previous speaker Ivan Bartoš said that the application of the law on the right to digital service, its preparation, is not in the power of the ministries. I think the biggest problem is that there's still mental tuning, in the departmentalism that lingers here at ministries, and in short, if it were to go through a commentary procedure, and every ministry, including the ministry, I don't know, agriculture, etc. then comments on the principles of providing services in digital form, so the result would probably come after the end of the term. [[9.30 hours]] Those ministries are still in tune by looking for trouble instead of helping find the solution and bringing the law to an end. Because the fact that only a law is adopted is only half the job. Then, according to this, the services must be purchased so that citizens can have it available by the next election. That's the goal of the law. Not only to adopt a law for the law that will be amended in the next parliamentary term, but to have it done before the elections, including that the services will be launched, that they will be operational and that citizens will be able to use them. This is how politicians should work in the election cycle. And so far, there's just a huge bureaucratic resistance, there's a whole series of frogs on the spring. If you look at the history of the case that was in the Department of Labour and Social Affairs and the interior and all that, you can't blame yourself for the fact that such a law doesn't support those officials. I don't say for all officials, but for those, for a large part of those who have decision-making powers, especially for the Deputys. So there just has to be a strong political will here that we want this law and related services in operation by the end of the term of office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u15	Thank you. The Prime Minister is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u16	I would like to make a general statement on the law. Unlike some parties and movements, we judge the rule of law from the point of view of its content. Of course, we support all the laws that have a positive impact on our citizens. I really don't know what my colleagues are talking about. I understand it's an opportunity to be visible again. When journalists ask me why I don't come here, that's why. For this spanking. That's not why I come here. Because when we called on the pirát to come and help us several times, they didn't have anyone. Then they put in an ad saying they're looking for someone on IT. So it's just talk, there's politics again that we're incompetent. I think there are competent people at the ministries. There's no resortism here. Here's the government attorney for IT and digitization, which is under the government, yes, right below me. And if there's a contradiction, the government will deal with it. And if any ministry has an opinion, I'm sure they'll give it to us in the government. So before we got there, there was nothing, now there are concrete results. And of course, the pirát are actually trying to create an atmosphere here that if they were there, they would do something. Well, you could have been there. So you could show us. You don't even have people. You're just talking nonsense. 21. 9. 2018 at 7:00 a.m. we met with Mr. Michálek. And the same day at 10 o'clock, Mr. Dzurilla sent him an e-mail. You never answered him, Mr. Ambassador. [[President: Through the President.]] They told me I didn't have to, but okay. Through the President. You're just doing politics. It's not about the cause. I've read the x's we're doing here, and it's got results. And, of course, an electronic file is part of it. The law, if Mr. Dzurilla supports it, I don't know it, I don't read the law, I don't have time for it. I've got people for this. I'm sure we'll make a rational assessment. We've asked you x-times to get involved, but you're just declaring something, you're still criticizing something, you've certainly got a lot of life experience from the state administration and everywhere. I don't have anything else to say. When the law is right, he's supported by a government agent, for me he's de facto a minister, or I'd say even more than the minister, because he's the government agent, he's in charge and he's got concrete results. And I think the whole list that I read here, and we can make it even more declarable, is clear. There's just a political debate going on here, and it's not a matter of course, it's just about the visibility of the pirát to say that they have some ideas. Well, you guys could have gone to the government. You could have shown us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u17	Thank you. There are two factual points. First, Mr Bartoš, then Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u18	I'll take it shortly only in response to the Prime Minister. First thing. I started talking about the law on the right to digital service here because in my opening speech, where he read the hundreds of projects that they are implementing, I noticed a little bit that he is taking this initiative. If we've been working on something for nine months and we're working on it, that's what the pirát are supplying. We met with government agent Dzurilla, we said we'd deliver an action plan to integrate open source and fight vendor lock-in. The biggest trouble of the state administration in the Czech Republic. We will present this plan. There has not yet been an action plan within the Digital Czech Republic, we will present it in the next few weeks. This was delivered by us in cooperation with IT experts. An ad. When we take positions, we don't touch the former employees of some holding company, but we're gonna put out a tender for our assistants, and we're gonna pick out the best. So when you're looking for people or advertising a position, such as an eGovernment specialist in the Chamber of Deputies, you don't touch the side and take some IT person from the pirate party in Ostrava. We're doing a tender where he can sign up. It's not a lack of people's capacity, it's just a normal procedure for you to look for the best for the job. So we participate in the RVIS proposal in the Chamber of Deputies, in the legislative work, in the political work, and in our bills, even this eSpis, goes to those places where the government doesn't deliver them. And it's an interpellation, which is that we're discussing these things together. Then don't drop it, Prime Minister. I'm glad you came and we can finally talk about it. And I'm glad the citizens see it too. But it's not about that. 'Cause we're dealing with a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u19	A point of fact, Mrs. Kovářová. Then MP Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u20	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have to respond to the Prime Minister, his remarks about smacking, nonsense and all that. These exact statements are slapping. First of all. Two. You call pirát boys. Me too, but not in the Chamber of Deputies. Informally at the buffet, as you say, it's good to act there. Here you will simply call them Members, because they are Members who have been properly elected. And don't banish the lords of the MPs and MPs of the Pirates movement. And now specifically about the experts. When I wanted to change the law that was about simplifying the issue of driving licences, I begged the Department of Transport for two years. Then we passed the law, there was a simplification, and after his approval, you put it in a government statement, like you were gonna make it happen. So this is how you proceed very correctly from your side. Two. We wanted banks to enter the basic registers, make life easier for citizens. As you say, positive impacts for citizens. And what happened at the Treasury Department? It didn't know it should do an agenda system for this kind of design. It takes three years, nothing's changed. So let me get this straight. We want to talk about specific things, we want something that's good for people. And you, Prime Minister, please don't talk about smacking anymore, and the pirát here in this room don't call them boys but MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u21	Thank you. Another factual point - President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u22	Thank you for the floor. The Prime Minister said here in reply to an interpellation concerning an electronic file that I did not reply to an e-mail. Do we really have to get to this level? Plus, I didn't answer this e-mail because it didn't require an answer. Because he was like, "We can close it like this. The Ministry of the Interior prepares an analysis of electronic systems in which documents are processed. The aim is to comprehensively assess how the state administration is specifically fulfilling all the requirements of the archival law and related legislation in everyday practice. It is assumed that' - I am launching a part - 'that the Ministry of the Interior will subsequently submit to the Government the results of this analysis and proposals for further development of the system of filing services in the state administration by 31 March 2019. Thank you. Vlado Dzurilla." So that's what Mr. Dzurilla answered me in September, and I didn't have to answer that question anymore. So don't tell me we're not communicating here. All we had to do was shut it down sometime in October here at the written interviews, but we couldn't because you didn't come to work seven times. So please start at your place. You're the reason it wasn't closed. That's all I said in my opening speech, and if you hadn't started with your media propaganda here, where, in reply to electronic writings, you started quoting unrelated things like a register of churches and religious societies, a register of weapons and x other unrelated things, which are exactly the kind of talk and babbling, we didn't have to get into this at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u23	Another factual point, Mr Kalousek. Then, Mr Profant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u24	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, you said in this discussion: when journalists ask me why I don't come here, it's because he's smacking around like that. You're talking nonsense. Yesterday, in an interview with Radiožurnál about why you were not in the European Parliament, you said: Well, what would I talk to them for? The parliament is over. Everyone's just campaigning there. I'll wait for the new parliament. And I sure hope those who are there aren't there anymore. If we wanted to explain to someone what disdain for parliamentary democracy looks like, we could let him have these speech demonstrations. Do you really believe, Prime Minister, that this is dignified for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic? Your government has been given confidence from this House. And parliamentary democracy is simply the cornerstone of your government, whether you like it or not. However I don't understand it, you're kind of a role model for a lot of people in this country, and they trust you. And if they hear from you that Parliament is a blabbermouth and is not worth going there, then you undermine the trust of many people in parliamentary democracy. If you're doing this unintentionally, it's sad, and I dare to remind you. If you're doing this on purpose, it's criminal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u25	Another factual point, Mr Profant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u26	Prime Minister, honourable Members, I would like to point out that, first of all, the Prime Minister is transferring it to this personal plane, which is completely unnecessary. We can talk about things in a matter of fact. And that's what I wanted to make another comment about this respectable list of projects that this government and the previous ones are doing. So one of their biggest disadvantages is that all these projects, or almost all of them, come from the European Union. So the only person who is making real, real changes in this is the Digital Service Act and the European Union, which clearly defined citizens under the eIDAS Regulation and so on. And our ministries are really suffering from an incredible resortism that paralyzes their functioning, and then we see it, for example, at the MPSV, but also at the Ministry of the Interior and so on. And until we get rid of this departmentalism and we really cooperate, we're not really going to continue to deal with quality projects, which is still not happening here, so we're not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u27	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. Just to sweep my way out of my house. If this is a written interpelation, the Prime Minister is clearly acting as Prime Minister and therefore does not have to address another Member through the President. So if no one is to speak, I am ending the debate and I am asking whether Mr Michálek is interested in voting on the resolution as to whether to adopt an opinion. It's not like that. Thank you. I'm done discussing this interpelation. Another interpelation was also to the Prime Minister, who responded to Mr Jiří Valenta's interpellation with regard to the war reparations of Germany. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 324. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. This condition is met, and I am therefore opening the debate and I ask the Member to give his intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government and especially, Prime Minister, of course, first of all, I would like to thank you for having arrived today after your agreement with your secretariat, and so I can present my intervention, which I have had here for several months. Let me start in general. War reparations, i.e. compensation paid after the war by a defeated state to a winning state or to a winning state in the form of cash or non-cash, are always a kind of inadequate compensation for the hardships, hardships, sacrifices or damage caused by the enemy. Yet such an imperfect and inadequate instrument, which cannot affect all the damage caused, because, for example, human life cannot be balanced financially, is a huge disgrace to every political representation, in this case Czech, when it resigns from completely justified and even legally recognized compensation in its activities and activities and uses false or intentionally incomplete facts and arguments to defend such ignorance. In this context, we can ask: Where is the question of the reparation for the damage from World War II currently also being held? I think you all know that probably the most in Poland and Greece. But our government doesn't care. It is enough to appeal to the Czech-German Declaration, which I will also get to the legal irrelevance of. Ladies and gentlemen, just for your information, the Greek Court of Auditors, like the Supreme Audit Office in the Czech Republic, has estimated the war damage in this Hellenic country at EUR 309,5 billion, which is CZK 7,750 billion. In addition, the Greek Government claims that it would probably never fall into the economic crisis with this money. Of course, we can think of this expression. Even neighboring Poland has never renounced its compensation. Those who think so are wrong, told Sejm a year ago the Prime Minister of Law and Justice Jaroslaw Kaczyński, the most influential of the Polish politicians. The human and material losses caused by the Nazis and also by the Němec in Poland have calculated the analysis of the Sejma to 248 billion zloty. This is CZK 1 490 billion for a change. Polish President Duda said that Poland would never give up its claim and Germany had to pay. And that is exactly what some political leaders should take in the case of the real defence of the rights of our country and its citizens, at least in my opinion. Unlike Poland, Czechoslovakia should have been compensated for the war damage from western Germany. You know that this was a state and political unit with the German designation Bundesrepublik Deutschland. The government in Prague has calculated the reparation claims of 306 billion Czechoslovak crowns expressed in period currency. However, we received only and very ridiculous 230 million Czechoslovak crowns. If we are very helpful, we can add to this amount the payments made by Germany in the 1960s to compensate the victims of medical trials and forced labor. But we cannot get to more than four percent of the payment of valid Czechoslovak claims. I repeat, only four percent of the legitimate claims have been paid, which is a truly trivial fact not only historically, but also a message to the future that murder, steal, destroy and rob is actually okay. Because there is no justice. And so no wonder that the culprit suddenly began to feel damaged, and therefore, for example, landsmanshaft tries what we can endure. And we cannot fool ourselves that some Czech politicians have not helped and helped this great party. I'd rather not name it, but we all know who it is. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the victorious allied powers, England, the United States and the Soviet Union, have been addressing the reparations already at the Crimean conference in early February 1945. The protocol adopted in Part Five, which dealt with reparations, states: "Germany will be obliged to pay compensation in kind for the damage caused to the Allied nations during the war. " The protocol continued with provisions on forms of recovery of reparations to Germany. [[9.50 hours]] Reparations have been dealt with for years as well as the Potsdam Conference. In the official protocol in Part III, there is a provision on German reparations. It says here: "In line with the decision of the Crimean Conference, that Germany will be obliged to compensate as much as possible for the damage and suffering caused to the United Nations and for which the German nation" - I stress, the German nation - "can't get rid of responsibility, a reparation agreement has been reached..." So if for example. My colleague Kalousek, but also others, decided last week when pussing with my colleague Okamura, when I unfortunately attended the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, in the belief that the SPD President referred to the Němec as the culprits of war and not the Nazis, so he is to a large extent mistaken. After all, even the postwar speeches made by President Beneš in the direct context of the day are stylized as the chief culprit of the Němec, not just the Nazis, who have largely accepted the total krieg. The damage that the Němec caused not only to us was also discussed elsewhere. The problem was solved by e.g. And the Nuremberg trial with war criminals. The action stated that 750 thousand were deported from Czechoslovakia to Germany. Czechoslovak citizens for forced labour for military purposes. After the occupation of the country on March 15, 1939, the charges seized large stocks of raw materials and food. They took to Germany a large number of fleet, including locomotives, wagons, steamboats and trolleybuses, equipment for laboratories and art museums, books, paintings, art objects, equipment and furniture. They stole the gold fund and all the Czechoslovak value, including 23 tons of gold, which at the time had a nominal value of 5.5 miles. Pounds of sterlinks. They robbed Czech banks and many Czech industrial companies. They robbed and acquired Czech public and private property... This is the view of the allies, not my opinion, who decided to execute justice against the representatives of Germany - and I quoted this from the contribution of profesor doktor Pavlíček, CSc, who stated this for example. in Red Law - Law, sorry. The war damage to the Czechoslovak Republic notified by IARA, which was the Inter-Allied Reparation Office, amounted to 19.5 billion. dollars and were converted according to purchasing power in 1938 in the ratio of 15.79 crowns Czechoslovak for 1 dollar. Among other things, the value of German confiscated property did not reach such a level, and therefore some of the requirements of Sudeten Němec organizations are not justified even in economic terms. I'll add the legal aspect in a moment. The frequently registered argument foul that both parties, the Czech Republic and Germany, according to part of the text of Prime Minister Babiš's written reply, have agreed that the injustices committed in the past on both sides belong to the past and will not burden their future-oriented relations with political or legal issues of the common past, concealing, in my view, the extremely dangerous relativization of war suffering and from the damaged side of Czechoslovakia, its citizens, artificially creating an accomplice to war, and that is completely unacceptable. We must realise that the correct neighbourly relations between the two countries can only be realized when legitimate and even internationally recognised claims will be settled between them. Only then can a thick line be drawn behind the dark past, which had during the totalitarian war led by Germany resulted in the genocide of the Czech nation, in a better case moving its members somewhere east and in the case of carefully racially selected persons of mutiny. And I note that it is completely irrelevant to me in this respect that a significant part of my family also went to the western part of Germany after World War II - my stepfather was Němec and my mother lived in Hausburg, Germany for a long time. But I have made a parliamentary vow and justice here, and the interests of my country I must defend, unfortunately, unlike the Czech Government, without any end. That is why I ask, from this point of view, where is this still proclaimed in terms of historical justice and also the generously fed collective memory of our nation? Doesn't it just appear in the form of angry anti-patriotic expressions of some almost to obscure institutions, especially non-profit-types? What about the Office for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, where its outputs are? Didn't some cleverly shrink their memory between 1948 and 1989? She shrunk. And we know who and who our state is still paying for it in royal terms, but that's another matter. Back to the war reparations. In the 1970s, Willy Brandt promised our claimed reps in Prague, but he made them subject to the unification of Germany, stating that Western Germany would not pay for East Germany as well. This condition was subsequently fulfilled. Hans-Dietrich Genscher also promised to pay the reparation claims, he said that after the unification of Germany we would meet and make a quick deal. But when this was to happen, German officials preferred to use the instrument in the form of the Czech nation of Native Václav Havel and some of his skilled colleagues to write and signal a kind of forgiving document, which I have already mentioned, which unfortunately does not meet for them the legal requirements of the peace treaty, which would forgive the war reparation of the defeated country. Following the conclusion of the 2 + 4 agreement prior to the unification of Germany, his political representation pretended that the silence of war reparations meant that these were already swept away from the table forever. However, even according to US State Department lawyers, the silence of the Němec - and I quote now - simply meant that the reparations would still be discussed in the future. profesor Václav Pavlíček, mentioned earlier, claims that we can still lay our claims on the negotiating table at any time. Then why don't we do it? And aren't we going to do that now that Germany has been in significant budget surplus for several years - Mr Kalousek, the critic of the reparation, said when approving the state budget, I think, four years - and it would probably not be a problem for him to pay at least some of the outstanding amount? Then why don't we give it to the elderly or the other needy, who aren't very few of us? However, our country lacks the patriotic courage of its representatives, while the constant appeal to the persistently mentioned Czech-German declaration of 1997 is already more than embarrassing. Reparation claims enshrined in the Paris Reparation Treaty, please, Prime Minister, still persist. Specifically, at the end of the war, it was supposed to be 4.5 percent of German industrial property and 3 percent of German property abroad. And if any of our claims would like to write off the sum for confiscated Sudeten property, he should study the 1945 contract properly. Here's in section A, by the way. stated that we, Czechoslovakia - and I quote now - are obliged to confiscate German property so that it does not get back into German hands, and also that confiscated property will deduct the signalary governments from their share of the reparations... However, this provision does not apply to compensation for confiscated Sudeton German property, because the following paragraph D specifies precisely: In implementing the provisions of paragraph A, property owned by a Member State of the United Nations or persons who were members of that country and not of Germany and at the time of the annexation or occupation of that country by Germany or at the time of its entry into the war, will not be counted against its account by reparation... Therefore, Prime Minister, you do not have to be afraid of the pseudo-claims of the Sudeten Němec, if you therefore recognize international law - and I personally believe you recognize it. It is clear from that provision that the confiscation of German property, i.e. the property of the Sudeten Němec, was mandatory for our country as the signaling state of the Paris reparation agreement. I underline the word mandatory so that some of the German-oriented ones do not go back to being wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, for everyone, it is the sum of CZK 3.5 trillion of today's currency, with the Slovak Republic naturally entitled to its proportion, and also the fact that the main winning powers have decided to pay for the war reparations, so please, it is not a Czech nationalist climber. Now I would like to go directly to the written reply of Prime Minister Babiš. I will allow myself to put aside the attention of the commentary on Polish claims in my speech, as it is only illustrative for the very purpose of my initiative. The Prime Minister tells me in his answer, for example. wrote: The Czech Government does not consider the issue of the recovery of reparations to be an up-to-date... I ask, when else, if not now in Germany's great economic boom? I note that Germany's economic surplus reached almost 100 billion last year in exchange rate conversion. Crowns. Furthermore, the Prime Minister writes to me: the postwar arrangement of Europe is of great value and should not be questioned... The author of this answer - I don't know who it was, if Mr Andrej Babiš personally, unfortunately answers a question that I never asked him, thereby deliberately distracting himself from the merit of the matter. It is clear to everyone that, within the framework of the demands for war reparations on the questioning of so-called. another postwar arrangement is not at all possible, rather on the contrary, it is his confirmation and preservation. My point is, and once again, I underline the fair compensation for all the possible war crimes caused by the Němec, over which you can't just shake hands. [[10.00 hours]] At the end of my speech, I remind you of the applicable Act No. 150/1947 Coll., which has the title of an agreement on reparations from Germany, establishing the Inter-Allied Reparation Office and returning monetary gold. The one I mentioned still stands. And the 1997 Good Neighborhood and Friendly Cooperation Treaty could not change that condition. Only the peace conference and the conclusion of the relevant peace treaty with Germany could have been legally aligned, including the appropriate reparation period. And it never happened. Prime Minister, I'm sure you know very well that the law that no one has exercised in the long run weakens their weight. And in this case, someone's after time first. I appeal to you on behalf of many war-stricken Czech citizens and their descendants, and at the same time, I beg you, do not abide by the opinions of the deniers in this regard, but also by the delayers of justice and respect the legal standards still in force. With your clear attitude, help the state to further develop correct Czech-German relations in the expected benefit of both our nations, on the platform of equal negotiations. With your written answer, full of timid wrinkles, distractions, based on many experts, even not entirely correct facts, I really cannot agree, and I also suggest to the honourable House to reject it. And in the very same conclusion, I would like to ask you whether someone who writes the answers to the interpelations at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wrote to you. I am in the hands of Minister Petříček's reply to Mr Kobza's interpellation, and they agree with the whole long paragraph of your answer, literally. Well, at least you're united in the coalition. But please copy only good things from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u29	Good morning, honourable Members. We'll keep talking. Before I open the debate, I state the apology of Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová from today's meeting from 14.30 to the end of the working day for working reasons. Now I'm asking the Prime Minister if he's interested in speaking. He does. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u30	Thanks for the word. Mr. Ambassador, of course it was written by the clerks. You don't think I wrote that. I can't even read it. Hundreds of e-mails and hundreds of letters come every day. So it was written, yes. The combination of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. And we are - what it is - 74 years since the end of the war, so I understand. I'm going to read you the statement here, of course, if it's not enough for you that I'm writing to you, so I'm signing it, the clerk will write it. And now I'm gonna read it. The Czechoslovak Republic participated as a participant in the anti-German coalition in accordance with the conclusions of the Potsdam Agreement in 1945 in the negotiation of the Paris Reparation Agreement from Germany, the establishment of the Inter-Allied Reparation Office and the return of monetary gold on 21 December 1945. The Czech Republic is a Contracting Party to the Paris Agreement and became its Contracting Party in 1946 and the Czech Republic took over the rights and obligations arising from the agreement on the basis of the succection. The Czech Republic has never formally given up its reparation claims against Germany, which does not change anything even the legally non-binding Czech-German declaration on mutual relations and their future development on 21 January 1997. As regards the mutual partial compensation of the damage in Part I, Article 6 (a) of the Paris Agreement, it is stipulated that each signalling government retains, in the form it chooses, German enemy property under its jurisdiction, or has it in such a way that it cannot return to German ownership or under German control, and deducts that property from its share of the reparations. According to the Czechoslovak Government, the German enemy property did not include the property of the Sudeten Němec seized in the framework and as a result of their displacement, which follows from paragraph (d) of paragraph 6 of Part of the Paris Agreement. Objective international political facts after World War II prevented payments from being made in the framework of German war reparations beyond the payments granted until then, inter alia, because Czechoslovakia and the Federal Republic of Germany had not maintained diplomatic relations with each other until 1973. During the 1990s, the Czech Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany agreed at political level in a legally non-binding Czech-German declaration of 1997, that the injustices committed in the past on both sides belong to the past and that both states will not burden their future-oriented relations with political or legal issues of the common past. So this is 1997. In this spirit, both sides are consistently moving forward. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have sufficient information available to carry out a qualified comparison of the legal situation relating to war reparations in relation to all other European states concerned. The amount of Czechoslovak reparation claims was 306 billion Czechoslovak crowns, expressed in period currency. Only 230 billion were paid out of this claim by Germany. However, it is a fact that Germany has provided and still provides other compensation payments to victims of medical experiments in the 1960s, payments to victims of Nazism and forced labor recently, which have significantly increased the amount paid to Czechoslovakia in the form of reparation and other claims. This discrepansion between the reparation claims and the funds actually obtained did not only arise in Czechoslovakia, but also in all other countries, including those in Western Europe. As regards the way in which these reparation claims against Germany could possibly be applied and enforced, there is no international dispute resolution body for the Czech Republic that would be entitled to deal with this matter without Germany's consent. That means the UN International Court of Justice has no jurisdiction in this case. And with any claim, however, it could be expected that the German party would argue that the Czechoslovak Republic, or the Czech Republic, has already satisfied its reparation claims on the property left in our territory by the Sudeten Němec. Above all, however, it must be pointed out that the post-war organisation of Europe is of fundamental value to the whole of Europe and should probably not be questioned. We will, of course, if, Mr. Ambassador, you have a cookbook, as we should proceed, so surely the experts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Justice will be happy if you can give us some advice on how to proceed really and with some legal analysis, which, of course, can have some outcome. And, of course, the comparison with the Polish situation is different because, unlike Czechoslovakia, Poland is not a party to the Paris reparation agreement signed on 14 January 1946. And that Polish study does not provide convincing international legal arguments for the annulment of the statement of the Polish Council of Ministers of 23 August 1953 by which Poland expressly renounced its reparation claims against the GDR, respectively. Germans. As regards the alleged contradiction of this unilateral act of Poland with Polish national law, it is unconstitutional, so this reason is not relevant from the point of view of international law. Valid is not even an argument that it was done only in relation to the GDR or for the Eastern bloc states. At that time, the GDR was a representative of the whole of Germany. The Polish study does not address the question of how Polish reparation claims against Germany should be applied and enforced. It is therefore important to add that Germany and Poland have accepted the mandatory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice pursuant to Article 36, paragraph 2 of its Statute, accepting the jurisdiction of this court of overall disputes arising after the present declaration with regard to situation or facts subject to this date. [[10.10 hours]] Poland, therefore, cannot successfully claim its claims against Germany before the International Court of Justice, which would not have been competent for such an action in order to be dealt with by that court. Germany would have to agree with that explicitly, which is certainly not real. Only the possibilities of Poland to enforce the reparation rights are so direct political negotiations with Germany. If, of course, you have a cookbook on your part, how to really deal with some objective legal analysis to a successful end, I'm sure we'll be happy to get acquainted with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u31	Thank you. Mr Jiří Valenta will also be speaking in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u32	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. As I pointed out, my opening report, the performance was long because I was there to discuss your written answer, which I did not agree with. That's why I didn't want you to read it to me again. I clearly underlined that I don't care about the Polák. I am interested in the Czech Republic, for which I was elected to the Chamber of Deputies. It's just illustrative. I have illustrated that Poland, too, wants to enforce war reparations. You said that Germany's performance is still ongoing, but I have made it clear to you that the payment for medical experiments carried out in World War II and the compensation for the people who worked in the military industry in Germany - Čech and Slovák - reaches only a minimum limit. The discrepancence you were talking about is 96 percent. This means that 4 percent has been paid, no more by chance, and 96 percent is still missing from Germany. And one last thing. You were talking about a cook. You know, when I'm Prime Minister, I'll have the cookbook. And that's what I'm expecting from you. Because you're there to create the cookbook and promote the interests of Czech society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u33	Thank you, Mr Valent. Who else is reporting for the debate? I don't see anyone. In that case, I will ask my colleague Valenta if he would repeat the motion for a resolution in his intervention. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u34	I've already said that once in my interpellation, but officially once again. I call on the House to express its opposition to Mr Andrej Babiš's reply to Mr Jiří Valent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u35	Thank you. This is a proposal under the Rules of Procedure and we will vote on it in the vote number 150, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 150. Of the 103 present for 17, anti 30. The motion was not accepted. That's it. That's it. That's it. Another interpellation to the Prime Minister is the interpelation under House printing number 342 and this is when Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation on the opaque management of CEZ, especially his investments in Bulgaria. The discussion of this interpelation was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. This condition is met, so we can open the debate. I'm asking my colleague Michálek if he wants to get off at the opening. That's right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, allow me to remind you of what this is about. The interview is October 2018 and concerns the opaque management of ČEZ, especially its investments in Bulgaria. I turned to the Prime Minister to ask him for a consistent exercise of shareholder rights in ČEZ, which means setting up the transparent management of ČEZ, including public control and verification of the serious case of this energy group. I asked him for a detailed evaluation of the questionable activities of ČEZ in Bulgaria, which are associated with serious reputational and geopolitical risks for the Czech Republic and, above all, billions of losses of ČEZ. We all know that the Czech Republic is a majority shareholder of ČEZ, so I think that the Prime Minister should also take care of compliance with the basic principles of transparency in order to avoid indefensible losses of ČEZ funds. We had some meetings with representatives of the Bulgarian Commission of Investigation and local investigative journalists in Bulgaria and we found out from this, also on the basis of the available documents, which are public, that CEZ purchased the Varna power plant in Bulgaria in 2006, with the total value of the investment being CZK 8,6 billion. The plant was managed with a significant loss, until it was finally shut down in 2015 and sold two years later as non-functional for less than CZK 1.3 billion. At this point, however, the power plant is back in operation. In early August 2018, it was taken over by the controversial politician Ahmed Dogan. We also have a contract that illustrates the course of this transaction, and on the basis of these calculations, when the value of the power plant decreased from CZK 8,6 billion, which was an investment, to CZK 1.3 billion a few years later, although the power plant was therefore sold as scrap and subsequently it was put back into operation, it obviously seems very strange to us. The expansion to Bulgaria began in 2005, when CEZ invested approximately 8.9 billion crowns in three Bulgarian power plants and power companies. Other investments followed and a number of major problems, including arbitrage by several billion crowns, led ČEZ to its decision to sell its Bulgarian assets. The members of the Bulgarian Commission of Investigation designated the Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babiš with his Bulgarian counterpart Bojko Borisov as a key moment for the sale of CEZ's assets in January 2018. Already in less than a month a privatisation contract for an energy distribution network was signed, including six other companies for CZK 8.2 billion. It was to be bought by the unknown Inercom company, while the members of the Bulgarian Commission of Investigation made it clear that it did not meet the essential requirements for the privatisation of energy, the minimum volume of electricity sold, the credit rating, etc. The owner of this company Ginka Verbakova was impressed by the white horse and her husband was investigated by Bulgarian police in several serious cases. For the time being, the sale has been suspended by the local Antimonopoly Office. I'll be happy for any updates, because, as I said, the interpellation is from October last year. Unfortunately, it has not been discussed since then, because the Prime Minister was not present, so it was interrupted. I asked in a few brief points about the economic evaluation of ČEZ's investments in Bulgaria, please evaluate the investment in the Varna power plant in particular. Please specify who is responsible specifically for the inclusion of Dimitrov Stefanov in the Supervisory Board of Bulgarian ČEZ in 2009. What is the real owner of Inercom, who seeks to purchase ČEZ's Bulgarian assets? How is it possible that Inercom entered into the tender for the sale of Bulgarian assets, although it did not comply with the minimum volume of electricity sold by law, credit rating, minimum equity capital, etc.? What concrete measures did CEZ take to address its management, and what other measures does it intend to take so that the undesirable situation does not recur and CEZ operates transparently? This was my interpelation and I received a shocking reply that according to the information received by the Prime Minister from the Ministry of Finance, CEZ has activities in Bulgaria, including the privatizations considered, the Ministry of Finance has only information from the media and from CEZ's annual reports. Although there is serious information about the failure of ČEZ to manage properly, the state exercises its rights as the majority owner of ČEZ completely inadequately. I doubt the Prime Minister managed his stock companies in this way. [[10.20 hours]] As a majority shareholder, the State has the right to request an explanation at the general meeting. Did the representative of the Ministry of Finance ask for an explanation of these questionable activities of ČEZ in Bulgaria? Alternatively, if so, how did the board react to this? The State has the right to place a point on the general meeting in order for this matter to be discussed. The State has the right to review the decision of the Board of Directors by the Supervisory Board. I believe that according to the information we received, that the Ministry of Finance, as the one exercising shareholder rights on behalf of the Czech Republic, is completely inadequate that it has only information from the media and from the annual report of ČEZ. It refers to page 124 to 127 of CEZ's annual report on acquisitions in Bulgaria, and there is, of course, no specific information that would distract the suspicions I was talking about. So the state does not exercise the rights of the owner in ČEZ. And I would like the Prime Minister to shed some light on this and provide concrete data to show that the investments in ČEZ and the disinvestment in CEZ especially in relation to Varna and those personnel connections that lead to the Bulgarian Mafia there, so that they distract us from these suspicions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u37	I thank Mr Michálek. I ask if the Prime Minister is interested in speaking in the debate. Yes. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u38	Thank you for the floor. You know, it's hard to discuss when we were dealing with a fellow pirát yesterday, and we can't even figure out what a transfer is and what a sale is, so it's hard to discuss. The Ministry of Finance is exercising shareholder rights here. So I can only say that the Ministry of Finance has only information from the media and annual reports. I don't know what's special about that. Then study the rights of the shareholder. There is the Supervisory Board and the information that the Supervisory Board has is confidential. And if it's true what you're saying here is that there's a mob out there - and I fundamentally reject your non-reality that some media has released again that I have discussed with the Prime Minister about CEZ and some transactions. It's not true. Give me a criminal report! What's stopping you? I am the one who has always criticized ČEZ for failing his basic task and for not building a new nuclear block in Temelín. That he canceled the contest, that he should have done it by now. That he never should have gone and expanded abroad. I've always criticized it. But as Prime Minister, I had absolutely nothing to do with it, because I can't have any information from the Treasury or the Supervisory Board under the law. And that's why, of course, we're referring the answers to the report. Of course, the management of ČEZ's assets in Bulgaria, as with any other business company, is governed by Act 90/2012 Coll., the Commercial Corporations Act, as amended, and belongs to the business management of the company, which falls within the competence of the board of directors of the company. For the purposes of Article 435 (1) (a) of the CRR, the following definitions shall apply: No one is entitled to give instructions to the board of directors concerning the company's business management. So if you study it, you wouldn't want things from me that aren't really possible. So for the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Finance is only one of ČEZ's shareholders. And such is not entitled to intervene in the company's business management, even though it is a majority shareholder. And if there's a supervisory board, it has information of a confidential nature that it doesn't disclose, as far as I know. Neither does the Treasury, and I don't. So you're asking for something here, and I don't know what's stopping you from doing if there's a mob in there to file a criminal report. I'm sure the police will investigate, I have no doubt. So you could have done it a long time ago and not demand things from me that are absolutely impossible and are de facto unlawful. So of course, CEZ de facto does not control anybody except the Supervisory Board, and as far as I know, we have a draft law on the SAO, which actually, and we discussed it with the government on 3 December, which actually extends the SAO's competence. It hasn't been completed yet. It was discussed at first reading and there is no problem if it is discussed by the SAO in order that the SAO should have criticized these things, which I also criticized in the past, and other things, it was not only Bulgaria, it was also Romania and Germany and half of the Balkans, I had criticized it in the past, they should not have realized these investments at all. It was behind some leadership in the past, but if there were any crimes committed and you're talking about the mob, there's no problem. You file a criminal report, and I'm sure the police will investigate, and we can enforce the SAO, and then they'll check it out. But intersecting me in this matter is absolute nonsense under our laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister. And before we continue the debate, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Petr Pávek, from 9 to 11 o'clock on account of another work meeting. And from 10.15 to 12 o'clock, Mrs Miloslava Rutová apologises from the hearing. We can now continue the debate. I'm asking who's still reporting for the debate. A colleague of Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u40	Thank you for your answer. But there were some untruths in the answer. One fundamental truth is that the shareholder can't do anything. That it's all being controlled by the Supervisory Board. I've read to you here, I've read you here a list of shareholders' rights that you can do. You can request an explanation at the general meeting. You can ask for information, you can place a point on the general meeting. You can ask the Supervisory Board as a qualified shareholder to review the Board's decision. I read that here, so please don't tell me to study something when I read it to you! Then listen to me! I've read you a list of shareholder rights here, and I'm interested in how the state is doing it. And since this is the biggest company here of all companies that are supposed to be participating in property, it would seem logical to me that you know a little bit about it when it comes to several billion crowns. You have the Minister of Finance here, so let the Minister express how he exercises the State's shareholder rights. I assume that there are at least ten officials in charge of this at the Ministry, so I assume that they are also engaged in how the State exercises shareholder rights and that they are active owners and that they are not only passive recipients of information from the media and from the annual reports. Well, I'd be surprised if a proper caretaker would do that. I think it's contrary to what you had on the billboards: to run the state as a company. Firms are managed by having an active shareholder. Not a passive shareholder who looks at the media and annual reports, then comes to the general meeting, approves the financial statements and that's it for him. So I'd ask you not to tell the truth here, like I'm trying to get you involved in the company's business management, which is what I would have to tell you here, whether CEZ is gonna build here or onde power plant - that's not what I'm saying. I am merely asking you how the State exercises shareholder rights, in particular how it exercises the right to explain, to information. It's not against the law. On the contrary, this is the proper exercise of state ownership rights in CEZ's joint-stock company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u41	The Czech Finance Minister Alena Schillerová is reporting for the debate. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will complete what the Prime Minister has said, Mr President. We know how to exercise shareholder rights. Believe it doesn't make ten officials, we can't afford that at the Treasury Department, and we're doing it just like you quoted here. But I would like to point out that CEZ is a listed company on the stock market. And you're asking about the information that goes on at the Supervisory Board, and it just doesn't belong to the public. So don't be mad, we just can't communicate. That's all. That's what this is all about. Otherwise, we know how to perform them, and we exercise them with proper care. Trust us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u43	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Who's next for the debate? Yes, Mr. Chairman of ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u44	Thank you for the floor. I think we can follow up on the debate when we were talking about the nomination bill. I was performing with the need to have something called state property policy. And from the Prime Minister's speech, I decided that in the case of ČEZ, the only step that a majority, majority shareholder could take is that he would choose the Supervisory Board and then nothing. Then he doesn't know anything, he can't ask anything, everything's kind of spontaneous, and we're completely helpless. I understand that information from Čez or influence what ČEZ is supposed to do or not has no opposition. It's logical, we're the legislative power. But logically, it has to be government, government parties, and power executive, or executive. That seems perfectly normal to me. And yet it is normal for us in the House to know, for example, what the shareholder, in this case the majority, promotes in this company, what its objectives are in that society, what tasks he has given, for example, to the members of the Supervisory Board. And we had fun in that nomination law - just the task of those that the state sends there is to implement state policy. It's like every private firm where the owner decides what to do. I wouldn't look here, and I wouldn't judge it by the difference of ownership. The same must be done by the state. Madam Secretary said he didn't have ten people to do it. In my opinion, it was just an example for them to take care of ČEZa. But that's a shame! I don't know what the right number is, but I know we've accepted 600 EET officials. Let us look at the proceeds from their activities in absolute amounts and look at, for example, the economic results of ČEZ, which are sometimes in tens of billions. And those 600 officials who control the EET will certainly not bring tens of billions to the state budget. So I think, Madam Secretary, if you were to strengthen your office, not just with ČEZ, the people who are going to do it, it is a step that the opposition will appreciate and will not criticize as unnecessary officials, unlike those 600 controllers to the EET, where we simply disagree and we have a different opinion. But in order for the state to enforce its policies and have qualified officials to do so, we can certainly agree on that. And I fully respect that ownership policy is determined by the government and not by the House. That's right. And it doesn't matter if I'm in opposition or coalition. The principle must always be the same. We are in 2019, so I think there is a logical question - for 2019, 2020, 2021 what are the tasks of the state for ČEZ? What's watching over there? What does he want to achieve in those three years when we talk about this parliamentary term? These are measurable tasks, measurable tasks that are regularly evaluated, and are therefore assessed both by the functioning of the Supervisory Board, Board or Management or not. That's a normal owner's attitude. If he doesn't deal with it physically today and daily, which, of course, is also a possible model, in this case it just isn't possible, we understand all this, what are the measurable tasks if they exist, who controls them? I don't think we can narrow the debate on ČEZ's management to one question, virtually. to two questions: How will the position in the Supervisory Board be divided politically between coalition parties? This is the first question that is very often dealt with in every government. I'm making a statement for every government not to be caught saying you did the same thing. I say for every government. And the second question that is addressed for each government is the amount of dividends and income in the state budget. Not that these two questions, these two circuits aren't important, they're obviously important, but they can't be the only ones. And I feel like they're the only ones, and the Prime Minister in his performance, when I sum it up, he said to us, "I've been criticizing it for a long time. Really. I was one of the first. I think it's consistent with the reality that it's nothing imaginary, and at the same time he said, but there's nothing I can do about it. And I find that second sentence hard to believe. After all, the State cannot resign from exercising ownership rights by electing members of the Supervisory Board and then doing nothing. And that's what we're talking about! Not the specific matters of the proceedings mentioned by President Michálek. I don't think it's our ambition from the opposition to say what to do and what to do with the structure of the firm and how many employees they're supposed to have on that section, on that section, etc. But the fundamental strategic goals that the state wants should be defined. They can be public, there's nothing secret about it, if we want to maximize profit, accumulate money for future investments, or what amount we want to invest from the point of view of the majority shareholder. This is legitimate, and then one, two, three years apart, can be said: yes, does ČEZ carry out the tasks that the government has given or does not perform? When it's filled, it's fine. Let us reward those who fulfill them. If he doesn't do them, let's change them. This is standard ownership policy and should also apply to ČEZ, as well as to all other companies where there is state participation, as well as in the private sector. So I don't think we can settle for an answer like this: it's all the supervisory board, we're nothing, we're just the government!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u45	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. I now have Mr Michálek's factual comment and then the Prime Minister's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u46	I just wanted to say that ownership policy is a related problem, but it is still a little different from the exercise of shareholder rights in this particular case. We've already proposed ownership policy in the nomination bill. It must be given to the Prime Minister that it was he who put forward the first draft of ownership policy on the government. Unfortunately, the government did not accept this in the last parliamentary term. I hope that during this parliamentary term we will be able to make amends. However, if I get to the fact that the state is supposed to have enough apparatus to exercise its property rights, then when I compare it with Prague, where I was head of the representative club, we had a department of stock portfolio management in Prague, which had five people. Prague has about 26 equity companies or participations and these companies are significantly smaller than ČEZ, dramatically smaller. Even Prague energy is significantly smaller than CEZ, so I expected logically that there would not be one or two people there who would perform things formally, but that there would be an analytical team there, because I, as the chairman of the opposition club in Prague, received a report every year on the participation of hl. m. Prague and there were written information about how it operates there, how Prague exercises its property rights there, who it has there in its supervisory boards, how important events took place there, what plans are for the next period. So in my opinion, if there's only a few people out there at the Treasury Department like this, there's the biggest opportunity, if we were to increase the number of people, we'd get the most value there, if they were to take proper care of equity participation and exercise the right to explain where it's supposed to be. I'm quite interested in how many times the state has exercised the right to explain it to ČEZ.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the Prime Minister is enrolled in the debate. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u48	I enjoy the way Mr. Michálek gives me training about companies. How many companies have you started in your life or how many companies have you run? I started the firm in January 1993, had four employees, and I built it that it had 35,000. staff. And I've bought 600 companies in my life that I've restructured. So I'm really glad that you guys are giving me training on how to run a company. That's really amazing. [[He's laughing.]] It's like... You really amuse me! To Mr. Stanjur. That was an amazing performance, too. Well, Mr. Stanjur, I want to ask you, why did you put ČEZ in the coupon? Why didn't you keep it? Why are you in January or when you got to the government, your ODS, thanks to you, we have what we have here. Why didn't you go to Singapore for an internship? You know, in Singapore, they would have advised you that the whole coupon that was totally stolen, Kožený, Harvard, and what everyone's name was. Billions were stolen. Tens of billions! So today, Singapore has a budget of 60 billion. Dollars, and he's got income from those investments, portfolio investments, he's got income of 30 billion. dollars. The proceeds from the investments. And 15 billion. You're giving yourself to the minister. [[unintelligible]] So if you went to that internship to learn how to build a market economy, you'd be advised in Singapore: Don't make a coupon, give it to people who won't steal it. And we could have been somewhere else. So today's CEZ, we've got less than 70 percent. So here's the debate, how many, who's running it. There are 12 members of the Supervisory Board. Twelve members of the Supervisory Board. And it's not true what you said, Mr Stanjur, that there are political nominations. That was for you. That was for you. Yeah, indulgence, all that. I don't know what you had in there. For us, they're all bureaucrats. Officials under the protection of the public service. So there's no politician on the Supervisory Board. It's not. There's not a single one. They're all people, they're officials, and it's Deputy Landa's responsibility, yes. One deputy. I don't know why we should still have some analytical teams to analyze CEZ. And if you say we don't have a strategy. We do! It's very simple. I declared it x times. The state wants ČEZ no longer to expand abroad to make money and build a core. Period. Simple, clear. That's what we want. So it's not true what you're saying here. And again, I call on Mr. Michálek, if he is talking about the Mafia and billions of losses, why you have not spoken. I urge you to file a criminal report on these matters. You're questioning the activities of the Secretary of Finance, intersecting me, I had absolutely nothing to do with it, yes. So please do this and don't give people the idea that we're doing something wrong here. And, of course, we support the law with the SAO, let it be the first company to be checked by the SAO. It has our full support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. We have two factual points, Mr Ivan Bartoš and Mr Jakub Michálek. The first is therefore the factual remark made by Mr Ivan Bartoš. Mr. Chairman, just a moment. I will just read the apology received by the President of the House, Mr Čižinský within 13 hours for work reasons. And the replacement card number 12 is Mr. Vrána. Now you have the floor to a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u50	Well, I'd just like to react briefly to about three things. I'm sorry that the Prime Minister isn't really watching what we're saying, and actually, how do you ask him something he's pre-prepared, so he's not actually responding to what you're asking. As the Prime Minister said, I heard it, you heard it, that in the exercise of shareholder rights he has reports about ČEZ from the media and from the annual report. So I believe neither of his companies has ever driven historically. So now they are not controlled by reports that appear in the daily press and some final annual report. I believe that as a manager he had a daily report on the cape, how who fills tables, with individual indicators, and accordingly decided where the company would expand. I do not comment on the circumstances under which this, say, economic business moloch was created, you can read this in various books. And the other thing. We're talking about a case that's being investigated by a committee in Bulgaria. This Varna plant case, Prime Minister, was held at a time when you were at the Ministry of Finance. So it's some sin of the past, of the past government. And now there's a secretary sitting here, and she's somehow inherited it. So that's why the interpellation is primarily directed at you, because you're not in politics for one term, but you've been in politics for two parliamentary periods. And in the last parliamentary term, it was the Ministry of Finance to supervise this transaction. And the problem is obvious, it's being dealt with by the parliamentary committee. We had our representatives at a meeting with politicians in Bulgaria, and it's a case alive and we're talking about losing about 7 billion. CZK in a very strange investment, which, according to Bulgarian politicians, has a relationship, as well as Bulgarian media, has a relationship with people that can be called the Mafia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A colleague of Michálek checked out of a factual remark. In that case, the Prime Minister, then the Chairman of the ODS Club. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u52	I don't know if Mr. Bartoš... You listened to Mr. Michálek? He said CEZ bought Varna in 2006. 2006. And do you feel that I was Minister of Finance in 2006? Then why do you say it? Why are you lying again? 2006. So I don't get your act, say, I've got something to do with it... I had nothing to do with it. In 2006. Yes, so... And CEZ is a company where we have a share, and it's still like over and over again. And I'm telling you again when the Bulhar are investigating it, fine. And why isn't our police investigating this? You haven't said a single thing about that. That's the third time I've told you. Give me a criminal report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u53	Thank you, Prime Minister. President Stanjura will wait a little longer, because I have two factual points here, Mr Bartoš and colleague Michálek. If you, Mr President of the House of Deputies, are in agreement with your party chairman, you are in reverse. But of course it's possible to switch the order with you. [[A deal off the mic.]] No, okay. In that case, the President of Michálek, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u54	Thank you for the floor. First of all, the Prime Minister's first statement. The power plant was built in 2015 and sold two years later as dysfunctional. That is, it was during the time of the government when YES participated in the government and had YES finances. So don't tell me you had nothing to do with this place. And second point. We live in a state where criminal charges should be the last thing, because criminal liability is up to the ultima ratio, until the last step that should be taken if this thing cannot be dealt with privately in relationships, for example. ownership, according to the Civil Code, etc. And we're the representative of the owner here. We are discussing this here as a parliament whose government is responsible. So it's logical that first, before a criminal report is filed, it should be dealt with at the owner's level. Solve the problems, find out. Because the owner's in much more control than the police are. The owner can replace the entire supervisory board without any problems. Hurry up. So I don't like the fact that you're telling us to file a criminal complaint right now. You want to build an informer culture here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A colleague Zahradník, also with a factual remark, will outrun his party colleague. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u56	Mr. Vice-President, I'm going to move it a little bit. The Prime Minister said something in his performance today that interests me. He said that one of the tasks of ČEZ is not to make investments abroad etc. etc., but build the core. In 2014, I witnessed on the Environment Committee when Mr. CEO Beneš reasoned there, announcing the cancellation of the tender for the completion of the Temelín nuclear power plant, and his argument made me feel that they, as proper economic operators, were simply not prepared to take responsibility for an investment that he thought could be loss-making, that they were unable to estimate the evolution of energy prices at the time when the power plant was put into operation. [[10.50 hours]] That is why I think, and I say this repeatedly, that by building new nuclear capacities, another undertaking, like a state enterprise or another institution, should be entrusted. However, if the government, under your leadership, finally swings and decides that we must complete the core with us, and we cannot rely only on renewable resources, and so if you do so, it seems to me, unfortunately, that you are still on the spot and hesitating, I do not think that CEZ should then be the entity as a public limited company, but it should be some other entity, such as a state enterprise that would be equipped with a clear mission, a clear mandate from the government to start preparing for the completion of nuclear capacity. In my opinion, it's high time. Every step you don't take increases the likelihood of our dependence on gas. And of course, the gas is from Russia, and that's all we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the speech in Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u58	I used my first performance for a more general debate, not about the particular interpelation. I had some general remarks. For that, the Prime Minister immediately criticized me, even for the questions I asked. Well, I don't know if the question is criticism. I just don't see it that way. However, the Prime Minister here defined three objectives, three tasks for ČEZ. If I simplify, don't expand, make money and build a core. I think we agree on the headlines in principle, but we have to ask what's underneath. It's the easiest thing not to expand, I think there's a political consensus. Making money is a little more complicated, because in general, energy is a very regulated field, many of us come from Europe, many of us don't pay attention to energy packages like this, because 2030 and 2050 are far beyond the horizon of this or the next election period, but some of these proposals and some of the solutions that have been pushed can have a fatal impact on energy prices in particular. Then we ask what is the government's aim - to maximize the profit of ČEZ? Does that mean it's easy to increase energy prices? This is the legitimate and easiest way to maximize profit. And there's no easy answer to that, I say. Don't take that as a criticism, Prime Minister. I'm just saying, it's a rather complicated debate. The hardest debate is under the third heading on which, I think, the parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies agree. This means that we want to expand the capacity of our nuclear energy. But the debate is complicated because we have two possible projects, Temelín and Dukovany. The state, I don't think this government, once says that Temelín is the priority, one day it says it's Dukovany. There is no clear plan of priority, and there is no clear timetable for decision. And the debate - you smiled when my fellow Member Zahradník spoke - but it is also not black and white because you said it several times, Prime Minister, in your speech, and it is simply the fact that there are about 30% of minority shareholders in ČEZ. If you look at the estimates of the nuclear-block economy today, it just doesn't work out that it's a project with an economic return in some order for decades. On the other hand, what we call in the ODS is the state's energy security, which is a very key aspect, but it is difficult to quantify economically. And at the moment that we say that they are transporting in the decision-making state and after some broader political consensus that I think exists here, this aspect means energy security and energy security in future decades, so it is hard to imagine, even though I say that they are not impossible, and we would have to devote it to a detailed debate on how to do this - you said that CEZ should build this - so that they do not be economically damaged by minority shareholders, because they defend their interests, and there is a clear conflict of interest between the state, between the majority support of parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, regardless of the specific composition of the government coalition and the interests of minority shareholders that are perfectly logical, they want to have the most out of it when they have already acquired the shares. And to do that, we need a detailed debate without political bickering and screaming, because only by agreeing in broad agreement, we are then able to promote this ownership role, to build new blocks of nuclear power plants, effectively. Otherwise, we'll just talk about it all the time. In recent years, the debate has narrowed down to the problem of the tender, and who will build it. But we're not that far away. We should admit we're not that far away. Let's have a much more detailed discussion about what steps are needed before we write out the tender, and when they are met, let's go into the debate with full seriousness about what the tender is supposed to look like. I think the debate is premature today, it may be interesting, it's media interesting, but we're not at the moment we decide to write a tender in three months. We just can't write it. I think the opposition understands that too. It's not a criticism of the government. In the third objective, the ownership policy that the Prime Minister spoke of, I would point out that we should try to set a timetable for everything that needs to be decided and at what time. Of course, it may prove that the debate will be longer, that the term was too optimistic, that it will not be in a year, but maybe in a year and a half or two, but we need to start seriously debating so that the current issue of tendering is at some point. And according to our belief today, it's just not current and it's no use to convince ourselves what a tender should look like, who we should invite, who has better technology, which is better in terms of state security, etc. Unfortunately, we're not that far away. But we're able to shorten the time with the fact that we're going to have an intense debate to solve the problems that we have to solve before we launch the tender. That has to do with the question of who's going to build it, the cost estimate, get all the territorial permits, the EIA, the building permit, and then let's just talk about the tender. I think it's a solid offer from the opposition that it's not a subject of a political struggle, there's no heated opinion that one camp, let's say it's stronger, we want the core, and the other camp, let's say it's weaker, we don't want the core. Here I heard in the past and in this parliamentary term from all the political parties represented in the House then and today - we want the core. So let's talk about how this title, on which there is agreement, fill in concrete steps so that we don't waste any time debating who's going to build it, who we invite, who we invite, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u59	I thank Mr Stanjur. I now have the factual remark of Mr Jakub Michálek, then the Prime Minister's application from the point of view, but I point out that we have three minutes to do all of this. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u60	I'm sure we can make it. I'll be quite specific. I therefore suggest that we end this interpelation by the Ministry of Finance using the shareholder's right to ask ČEZ for explanations and specific answers to the questions mentioned in the written interpelation of Jakub Michálek to Andrej Babiš at the next general meeting. Secondly, we would ask the Ministry of Finance to explain to Members how the Ministry of Finance uses shareholder rights in CEZ's commercial company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u61	I thank you, Mr President, but that is not possible because we are in response to written interpelations and the only possible resolution is that either you accept the answer or you reject the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u62	I do not propose a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u63	So you're not proposing a resolution. The Prime Minister is still reporting. Please, Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor. I'll have to interrupt you at 11 o'clock, but not that I want to, but because it's under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u64	I'm just talking to the informers, Mr. Michálek. Well, you turned me in to Brussels, didn't you? [[Unintelligible screams from the O.R.]] You guys turned me in to Negro. [[Let's hear it, let's hear it.]] And here's your legal obligation when you're talking about damage and the mob, to file criminal charges. You guys are saying that some mob guys are losing billions here, so I guess I'm not a lawyer, so if you're talking that you're not informers, you're informers! [[unintelligible]] You're setting me up! Everywhere! Yeah? And here's a billion-dollar loss, and you don't want to sign it? Well, that's interesting. So please, 2014, why didn't it finish? Well, that's interesting when Martin Roman told us in 2008 that he had to expand because everything would be expensive, so it would be interesting to evaluate the business plans of ČEZ as it turned out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u65	[[He's coming in.]] Well, Prime Minister, I hate to say it, but I must, because the Rules of Procedure Act is uncompromising, because the answers to written interpelations take place on Thursdays from 9 to 11 o'clock. I am ending this interview because President Michálek said that he is not proposing a resolution. I therefore conclude with the fact that we have exhausted three in today's meeting, the others remain for the next day of the meeting. With item 229... [[Members of Stanjur and Michalek protest off the microphone.]] It was because Prime Minister Michálek said... Well, I didn't have anyone logged in till 11:00. [[Voices from the diaper.]] I interrupted the Prime Minister, he ended his speech, and I didn't have any other written application or application at 11 o'clock, Mr President! [[Member Stanjura approaches the microphone.]] I... you have priority rights. I therefore registered prior to your preferential right the priority right of the Chairman of the ANO Club, who applied at 10.45. That's what I was counting on because he's asking for 20 minutes' break. That's what he told me about his performance, so like me, I respect that. Okay. Mr. Chairman Jaroslav Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u66	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize, but I have called the following points for our 10.30 parliamentary club today. Since there were interpelations and the Prime Minister was here, we agreed to ask for a break from 11 o'clock for 20 minutes. We'll do it here in the building so we can discuss it. So that's what a request is for when Mr. Stanjura's done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u67	So, is Chairman Stanjura asking for a break or now with priority rights? After the break. So I'm declaring a break to 11.22 for an ANO club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u68	The honourable Member, honourable Members, is 11.22 p.m., the time spent on a break for the ANO meeting of the parliamentary club has ended. We're going where we left off. This means that the President of the ODS Stanjura is now with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u69	Thank you for the floor. I fully respected the request for a break, which is why there was no problem with me getting off now. I want to get back to the situation that was at 11:00. In my view, probably unintentionally, Mr President, Vice-President Filip, did not fully comply with the Rules of Procedure. I think we can use the log as evidence. When it turned out at 11.00, Vice-President Filip said, "I'm slightly paraphrasing, it's not a literal quote: I hate to say, Prime Minister, I have to interrupt you because it was 11.00. In that moment, I think the point is interrupted, the specific interpellation that is open is interrupted, and the next time it will be continued, one minute or an hour hard to tell. Only then did he ask the Prime Minister if he had ended his performance. The Prime Minister said he did, but he also tells us that we didn't sign up in time. When I heard he was interrupting, because I was, I thought there was a misunderstanding. [[unintelligible]] I believe, Mr Vice-President, that the interpellation is not over, that we will continue it at the moment when it comes to the agenda again with the point of the written interpelation that at least two of us wanted to sign up for the debate, either with a factual reminder or with a proper speech. The fact that the Interpeller will say, I also sometimes do it, in my speech, now the debate, I am already in advance, and I see that I will not propose a vote to reject the answer is logical, but that is simply not the end of the debate. [[unintelligible]] I don't know if we have legislation here, but I don't know exactly how to get out of this right now. Even by the fact that there was a break. If the Vice-President, who was in charge of the meeting at this time, had stated that the meeting was suspended at 11 o'clock according to the approved programme, that Mr Michálek's interpellation, the House press is now out of my mind, and that it is therefore interrupted, the next time they come to a series of written interpelations, I think it is okay. Then, perhaps, someone might object and vote on it. It's a situation I've never seen here before. So this is my suggestion on how to proceed at this point. I think we can agree on that and not spend time arguing about how it was or wasn't. But I think it was pretty obvious. Unfortunately, it was not enough time for us to end the debate on the interpellation in question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd try to work this out simply, but I'd like to maintain impartiality. This means that it is not interpreted as being on the side of the opposition. However, my interpretation is that the point has not really been completed so as to make it clear that no one else is reporting for the debate. Therefore, we should not consider the debate to be closed. If none of the club presidents objected to this interpretation, we would continue the debate on this written interview next time. Any of the club presidents object, please? He doesn't object. I think that's a general consensus, and I think that's how we figured this thing out. Thank you. President Bartoš with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u71	New arrivals good morning. I apologize for taking advantage of this preferential right, which still responds to the gorgeous ride that we had here at the end of Prime Minister Babiš's performance, which was about our interpelation. He urged us to file a criminal report, and we got into some sort of a dispute here, and there were some, say, insults and insults to the pirát, and there was a word that was common from the Prime Minister's mouth - talking about informers. I've got a friend from a family in the neighborhood of Ostrava who was telling me the other day why he lost faith in some high-ranking politicians in this country, and he said a beautiful sentence to me, "They're not telling the truth, and a lie is a crutch of weaklings." So I'd like to ask the Prime Minister not to invoke this in the citizens, this feeling, and he's not lying. It was said here that the pirate party turned Mr. Babiš in to Černošice. The case of conflict of interests of Andrej Babiš is being investigated in Černošice in connection with the Czech conflict of interest law. The complaint to Černošice, on the basis of which Černošice investigates this case, was submitted by Babiš's former candidate for the Interior Minister David Ondráčka from Transparency International, whom I appreciate, among other things. He then chose Mr Chovanec instead, but that is no longer important in the matter. And the pirate party, as well as apparently other parties, has been invited by Černošice according to my information to provide the evidence they have on this case. We have complied with this request, I assume that other parties who have had relevant analyses or legal analyses on this case or, for example, an expression of some legal houses have provided this. So this isn't true, the case in Černošice is being dealt with on the basis of Mr. Ondráčka's submission from Transparency International. The second issue was raised here on the European Commission's case and the resolution of the European Union's financial regulation towards the Czech Republic against the conflict of interest concerning Minister Toman and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Sometime in July, we appealed to the ministries and their authorities, such as SZIF, that this financial regulation would enter into force. According to the analyses available to us, according to the Slovak register, according to legal interpretations, we pointed out that this strict regulation was violated from our point of view by the Prime Minister and Minister Toman. The Ministry said nothing's going on, alles gut, we're not going to deal with it. On this basis, we have intersected the Prime Minister, nothing has happened in the long run, and we have actually entered into communication with the European Commissioners. And as far as I can remember, letters to the Czech Republic from the European Commission went with the fact that this was a problem. The European Commission is handling this, carrying out audits, and the European Parliament has voted on it. So when we are here trying to defend the money of our citizens, who, through the European Union, walk through us in the framework of European subsidies, I think it's doing good economics, not giving up. However, we tried to solve this case on home soil and were rejected by the ministries, that they did not have to do anything about it and that everything was okay. If you look at the SZIF statement, even in the historical context, you will see that it even recognizes in some cases the error within the size of the companies for which these subsidies were historically intended. And the last thing that has been said here, and I am glad that there are more Members and Members. Prime Minister Babiš told us today that the government, in turn the Ministry of Finance, does not control ČEZ's management substantially, that the information about the Varna case, where seven billion were lost, is only from the press and that according to annual reports everything is fine. And he called on the pirát to file criminal charges. I think that the criminal report, and it has been made here by Jakub Michálek, the president of the club, is the last option you have to deal with. Not the first when the state does not exercise its obligations from the point of view of Čez's shareholder. [[11.30 hours]] Very well. The pirát and I will therefore file this criminal report, but in that optics we will again do work for the government, namely for the government movement YES, just as it was under the nomination law, as it was necessary in the amendment to the Enforcement Order. We will therefore file the criminal report when the government claims that in the Varna case and the suspicion of embezzlement or theft of seven billion, its fingers are short and, as a shareholder of CEZ, it cannot control this and it cannot inform Members of its activities as part of the interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u72	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u73	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask and propose that we be aware of the system in every situation, even slightly more emotional. We, of course, can accuse ourselves of something here in the parliamentary debate, but it is not valid unless it is confirmed by a legitimate authority. We can blame each other here for being informers, but that doesn't matter. Only some of us are authorized by authority registered as Communist State Security informers. Coincidentally, the Prime Minister is one of them. And to whom honor, honor, no one else has the right to that designation. We can just as easily blame each other for stealing and calling ourselves thieves. It's not nice, it's offensive, but it's not valid. Only the Prime Minister has received the honor of being accused of thieving by the rightful authority, the prosecutor's office. Honored, honored. And no one else has the right to that designation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-31-ps2017-026-07-001-229.u74	Thank you. Now we will deal with points 124, 183, 184, 188, 202, 228 and then other points from the block of reports proposals and others. I remind you, this afternoon, we're going to be doing oral questioning. Anyone interested in changing the approved agenda? He doesn't. So I'm gonna start talking to you.
