ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 49 and 50 / House prints 545 and 295/ In the merged debate, Vice-President Okamura is with priority right at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u2	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have spent over ten years working as a problem with my colleagues. We were the first to publicly press for changes in laws and the whole system that had once been set up by private executors. We proposed a partial change in the merger of executions or in the last parliamentary term, and at the same time, the government rejected us, local jurisdiction, i.e. the so-called territoriality. But from the beginning it was clear to us that the real system solution is one, and that is deprivatization, i.e. nationalisation of executors. That's the SPD target. This draft government law, which we have here on the table for discussion, is talking about court bailiffs, even though it is really private institutions, only with the Glee Club of Public Law. The amendments proposed in this law are to some extent an improvement, but they do not address the core problem. According to our SPD movement, it would be good if one bailout was managed. But the government law suggests that the bailiff who receives the claim should hand it over to the bailiff who runs the proceedings that were initiated first. Okay, but the cost of the changes is borne by the creditor or, in the cases listed, by the debtor. And useless. Because if we accept our proposed territoriality, then every citizen has a local enforcement office, just as the court has, and nothing has to be transmitted or dealt with by other laws. But I don't think territoriality, i.e. the local jurisdiction of executors, is self-saving. It will prevent the collection of claims or execution tourism, when the most attractive destinations are or were executor gangsters like Mr.Vrána or Míka. [[Noise in the hall.]] Yes, if our proposed executor territory were introduced, Přerov would lose a few billion. As we know, there is no such thing as self-regulation and control of legality within the Executive Chamber. The problem of executors was not and is not only in bad laws, but in the fact that many executors have abandoned these laws for years with impunity. The problem is in a self-conceived principle, when the current governments have made the debt recovery business completely criminal. If the executor is a businessman, then logically pushes to profit and wants to scrape off the debtor's bones. And so far, the governments are supporting it. But the goal of legislators is not and must not be to secure the profits of executors and loan sharks, at least we in the SPD think so, but it is obvious that politicians from other parties, many of them, do not think so. Our aim in the SPD is to assist effectively, on the one hand, in order for creditors to be paid and at the same time not to destroy debts by debtors. The Czech system is probably unique throughout the world. And he managed to bankrupt a large proportion of the population and get it into debt traps. Let us not console ourselves with the existing numbers. To those who are in executions, please also include their families, who suffer from usury and the spree of executors as well. And here I would just remind you that for a very long time there has been a bill from the SPD pen that would end the loan shark in the Czech Republic, that is, a proposal for a ceiling on interest rates for consumer interest. The problem of execution is not only that someone borrowed a vacation over and over again, but that one debt multiplied so much that then the debt trap was no longer the way. On the contrary, the state of the moment when such a person is unable to pay, for example, health and social contributions, is struck by high periodic penalty payments and, of course, the VAT that the state collects at the highest rate on executions. What the government of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement is doing here is futile because it does not solve the essence - and that is the greed of profit on the one hand and the defencelessness of the victims on the other. It's like wanting to regulate foxes, how and how much they can rip off chickens. It's impossible, because whenever possible, the fox eats the chicken. And not because she's evil, but because she's created that way. In our opinion, the only solution in the SPD is to go back to the situation where executions were handled by courts and bailiffs, i.e. nationalisation of executors. Unfortunately, or, thankfully, time disproved all the myths that once led to privatization of executions. During the approval of the Law on Judicial Enforcement in 2000, the main argument of the petitioners was the alleged inefficiency of the enforcement of the judgment by the courts. However, the success of the enforcement system carried out by the courts under Section 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure was not more accurately analysed or numbered, but was estimated to be 30 percent. Private executives said their numbers would be at least twice as high. However, this proved to be a purposeful untruth. According to Hospodářské noviny's report, the average efficiency of the recovery of Czech private executors is around 18 percent this year. The exception is the Přerovský executors, who are said to boast a higher, at least 25% success rate. [[20.00 hours]] So, as we can see, private executives are less successful than the former state officials. What is it? Yes, private bailiffs might be more successful than the court-martials, but they stumbled upon their own ceiling, their greed, loan sharking practices, but also the general odd system that is begging people in the Czech Republic. There's definitely a sign here about foxes. At present, the insatiability of loan sharks and executors with dysfunctional courts has begged debtors so much that there is nowhere left to take. People work black because they wouldn't be able to pay their debts for a few lives. In doing so, debt exceeds several times the principal, i.e. the original debt, so people pay taxes, judgments, execution costs, interest on interest. Even creditors suffer from this condition. This is the result of the state machinery that the SPD has never participated in. That is why the SPD has proposed a law that the other parties here in the House refuse to support. In order to change the order of repayment of debts, we propose that the principal, i.e. debt, be repaid first, and then fees and judgments. And we also propose that interest on interest be abolished because, in our view, this is immoral. And this necessary law from the SPD pen is already here in the House waiting for a long month to discuss without the greater interest of the politicians of the other parties. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's proposal is unsystemic, but it brings about at least a slight change for the better, but unnecessarily complicated. The easiest solution is to cancel private executors and return before 2000. We have such a bill prepared in the SPD and hope for your support, colleagues and colleagues, if you really care about the fate of over-indebted citizens and also creditors who can't get their claims today either. Until then, it would be most reasonable to adopt at least the law on the territoriality of executors, whose SPD is a co-president and who is on the agenda after discussing this draft law from the government pen, which I have just mentioned here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u3	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u4	Wait, I'm gonna keep going, because there's a merged debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u5	Excuse me. If you continue, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u6	But you couldn't have known that from my greeting, that's true. So, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary proposal that lies before you and which the SPD is a co-president brings a very simple principle - to put an end to business with debts, to establish the local jurisdiction of executors, so-called. the principle of territoriality, and the merging of the execution of the debtor with one executor, i.e. the principle of one debtor, one executor. It'll be a much better condition than sending executions all over the Republic and charging the eligible one, the mandatory one. It is easier when from the very beginning each possible debtor will have his executor, i.e. will be within the judicial precincts, falls under the local court and subsequently designates a local executor. This is the principle of absolutely equivalent justice, in the police and elsewhere and there is no reason why they would in so-called. The court's private executives were supposed to be different. Here I would point out that the SPD is promoting the nationalisation of executors, and I suspect that we are probably the only ones here in this regard. But back to the law novelty. It will take account of the whole system and avoid the aforementioned execution tourism behind the largest predators. Business mustn't really belong in debt recovery because it's bad for everyone. As I have already mentioned, by liquidating some of the debtors, the enforcement of debts has also decreased and the cost of social services associated with helping people in debt traps has increased, among other things. A draft law, which we are co-submitters, that is to introduce local jurisdiction of executors, so-called. territoriality, it's going in the right direction. And so called. territoriality applies in most countries of the European Union. I don't know why the Czech government is still resisting this. This is therefore a transfer of competences in debt recovery to courts and actual bailiffs. One of the objections of the Government of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM against this proposal to introduce the territoriality of executors is that the proposed bill could lead to an excessive increase in the administrative burden of the courts in the event of adoption. Enforcement courts would have to make decisions, e.g. on the removal of the execution proposal, rejection and rejection of the application, registration of the executions initiated, etc. The courts would therefore carry out activities that are now in many cases in the hands of the bailiffs. Yes, that's true, but that's also the goal. Does the judge think that the executor himself will remove the defects of the execution proposal? You mean he's gonna turn him down to himself? I don't know what kind of jokers were handling the government's position, but maybe they just wanted to give us arguments for the adoption of the law. And here's my smiley face. [[There's laughter in the room.]] Yes, we want the courts to stop thinkinglessly agreeing to executions that are very often based on loan shark practices or fraudulent contracts and fraud. Yes, in a good way, we want to overwhelm the courts. Not because we want to liquidate these courts, but who, other than the courts, should oversee the legality and legal proportionality of executions? The bailiffs aren't going to be alone, they've been showing us that for the second decade. But we certainly do not have to be afraid of the greater burden of the courts in the long run. The moment the loan sharks and executors stop going through existing illegal practices, they will really decline and the subsequent work of the courts will be reduced. Of course, it will certainly be appropriate in this context to strengthen the courts economically and in person, in order to prepare for the next logical step - and this should be the return of executors to courts, i.e. the deprivatisation of executions in the Czech Republic, including the nationalisation of executors. That's the goal of our SPD movement. And we all, taxpayers, debtors and creditors, will benefit from such a SPD proposal. Billions that have been begged by debtors in recent years are money that is subsequently missing from both debtors and creditors, and from a state that has to deal with the consequences of debt traps or lines on them, for example, by driving hundreds of thousands of people into a grey zone where taxes and social contributions are not paid. Therefore, I will ask you to support this proposal on territoriality, i.e. the establishment of local jurisdiction of executives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u7	Thank you for the second time. And I'll introduce you to the note cards. Mr Veselý apologises to us from eight o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, and Mrs Melková also apologises from eight o'clock for working reasons. I have now received a request for a change to the rapporteur again, because, initially, when we discussed this on 28 May, we agreed to replace Mr Výborný as rapporteur for Mr Marek Benda, because I think Mr Výborný was not present, but Mr Výborný is already present and there is again a request for a change to the rapporteur. So I've called my colleagues into the O.R. and we'll vote. There's a checkout request. Please sign in. We are going to change the rapporteur to make the rapporteur an Výborný report of 295. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 250, 93 Members and Members were enrolled, for 90, against no one. The motion has been approved. I will ask the new rapporteur or the appellant if they are interested in speaking with priority rights. If this is not the case, then we will finally go into the debate. With priority rights? Mr. Benda, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u8	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, Madam Secretary, I will try, because I realise what time it is, too, not to be too long. I'm not gonna propose rejecting either of the prints we both have submitted. I think it would be possible for them to go through the constitutionally-legal committee in peace and quiet, and there we will try to blind some of it. Only then would I have to ask if the proposal could be put to the vote so that the time limit for committee discussions will be extended by 20 days for both prints, which we do not have to do with the agreement of the plaintiffs, but I really think it will not be entirely trivial to go through with it. Perhaps only what has been said so far at the House's meetings. They often think about debtors. We're still very fond of the poor guys who fell into those executions. Little forgets the fact that it's always their own fault. They're either in debt or they're neglecting something or something like that. And little is thought about the fact that there are also some creditors, often public entities, or semi-public entities, such as transport companies, often private entities, often friends, now I don't talk about maintenance, it is always a bit excluded, but typically SVJ, cooperatives and others, where it is somehow an attempt to ensure that others who live do not have a problem, and somewhere it is treated separately. And it's forgotten that there are always some creditors, sometimes not intentional, who want to get the money back, and that we need to make sure that those rights are balanced relatively. Very often cases that are 15 or 20 years old are operated. I didn't originally vote for private bailiffs, and while I was here, others voted. True, the first half, the first decade of this century, was very wild and there were many grossly unfair things. Still, I think we've solved most of them in the next ten years. We've been through a big amendment to the Insolvency Act, which has also caused enormous emotions here, but which should help especially with multiple executions in some way to people who want to deal with something. Of course, there must always be a will to want to deal with something. Prepare to be in some difficult situation for three or five years, and after that I am in debt, not fleeing the Republic, taking money all over the country black, as my colleague Bláha sometimes tells us, and feel like I shouldn't pay a penny for it. Yes, those who are fleeing all over the Republic will not really be dealt with. But I just wouldn't want us to always forget about creditors in this effort to protect debtors at all costs. This concerns both the parliamentary proposal and what is now called territoriality, even if it is such a not-quite-precise territoriality, which is also at least slightly controversial. If we say it's a lottery ticket, maybe in the Central Bohemia Region, if I'm from Příbram and the Mladá Boleslav executor attacks, try to measure how much it is during today's impenetrability of Prague, during the Prague's pirát Mayor through Prague, it is. That's a three-hour drive, maybe farther than Jihlava. The same in some other regions. So the feeling that it would solve everything, I don't think it matters either. And of course, it doesn't create almost any competition between bailouts at least in the sense that some are trying to get something out more and more honestly, and some feel that they're just going to live off the charges. The same applies to a bit but also to the ministerial proposal that I should be fair in my own to some extent a criticism that I think has two weaknesses in itself as far as creditors are concerned. The first weak point is that if I invent this system of so-called snowman, the first executor takes everything, everything goes down to the first executor, then there's a danger that he's going to be the debtor, who's going to choose the executor, that in a situation where he knows there's some major problems falling on him, he's going to be the one who's gonna make the first executioner's deal with someone and he's gonna go to his close executor at the time, and then all the executions are going to come up with this one. I see that as a big and potential problem that I would like to avoid. And the second question that I consider to be questionable there, I would, of course, be in favour of trying to solve some kind of long execution, five or more years. But the attempt to say that in every situation it is to be paid and that it is the poor creditor who has previously to determine whether or not the person concerned is able to repay something, and accordingly decide whether, if it puts it to the executioner, it will pay some fee for execution of execution, it will probably go to those friends I know, but in a number of cases, and I think that there will be the biggest problem there will be public or semi-public corporations, such as typically transport companies, but also municipalities and others, which have no apparatus to find out whether or not their creditor is able to pay, and yet they must decide in advance whether they want to file an execution because they will have to advance, there I would say that the government proposal is relatively imperfectly implemented by the RIA, which faces that the impact on municipalities and regional authorities is zero. I think that this is not true, that both in terms of administrative burden and, in particular, in terms of the risk of entry fees or follow-up fees, this may have a relatively significant effect on local authorities. So much for a brief statement. We must not, in an effort to protect debtors, completely kill creditors, indeed they are in the right, the debtor is not in the right to make this parameter completely clear to us. The creditor is in the right, the debtor is not in the right, and we must try to guard both. Otherwise, I recommend that we order both prints to the constitutionally-legal committee, and I hope that my proposal to extend the time limit for committee discussions by 20 days has been registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u9	Thank you. I'm the one who recorded the proposal. I just didn't notice the proposal. Both? Okay, thank you, so that's an extension of 20. I have now made a factual point here, but it has already disappeared, so I have been notified with priority rights by Mr. Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just as rapporteur for the House of Press 295, allow me a few not content, because the press has already been presented by the petitioner here in an open debate at first reading, but rather factually also in the context of the House of Press 545, which is the government's proposal for an amendment to the OSSR and the Enforcement Order, to say that, first, as chairman of the subcommittee on the issue of enforcement and insolvency and debt relief, I am ready again to take up the negotiation moderation, as with the insolvency law. Next week we have a meeting called for Thursday, whose main goal will be to talk about the timetable and solution of the negotiations of these two prints. Like the President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, I would advocate that both of them be ordered to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. We are prepared to pre-negotiate the matter on the subcommittee so that there is already some consensual solution to the CIP. [[20.20 hours]] I must also welcome the Minister's words, which I also discussed, that she is aware that the government's draft is not entirely perfect and that it will be good to try to find a reasonable compromise, and this will be the subject of negotiations not only next week, but I believe that in the coming months we will also be able to find in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice such a solution which will be beneficial, which means that the execution business will be stopped here and what comes down on those today we must say hundreds of thousands of executive people, but at the same time it will also be a solution that will be applicable in practice. I think it is important to communicate with the Executive Chamber, for example, and then with those who work with debtors, because if we do not find a balanced solution, it would be wrong. I'm ready for this. I just wanted you to know that the process is nowhere in the airlock. I am glad that we finally received a government amendment, because House Press 295 was submitted to the House on 2 October 2018. Unfortunately, this is also evidence of much. We have reached a point where we can both discuss the press together, whether here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, I presume, also on the floor of the subcommittee and then the Committee of Constitutional Law. We will do our utmost to be able to load an ideally complex amendment from the Constitutional and Legal Committee here in the second reading and reach the third reading in the month's order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u11	Thank you, too. That was the last application with priority rights. Now there are two factual points. First Mr. Nacher. Before the microphone comes, I will tell you that Mrs Adamová apologizes between 8:00 and 23.59 for personal reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. It is a bit of masochism, here to apply for a factual remark at half past eight, but I would like - because I am already entered into the debate - to respond to my colleague Marek Benda. I don't like the black-and-white view in favour of debtors, I agree, but neither do I in favour of creditors. I wrote exactly the wording, as Marek Benda said, that the creditor is always in the right, and the debtor is always in the wrong. I don't think he's like that. I would add the words of a serious creditor, when already, a serious creditor, and we have tens of thousands - according to the latest figures of the Ministry of Justice 133,000 - invalid executions, unlawful executions, where the creditor has already gone into this at the moment when the case law of the Constitutional and Supreme Court has already been here, that some executions declared on the basis of certain arbitration findings, where the arbitrator has been selected in a non-discriminatory manner, are invalid executions. Even so, they're going on and on and on and on and on. That means it's not like that. Just as it isn't true that everyone should stand up for debtors, it isn't true that the creditor is always in the right and the debtor is always in the wrong. I would just-- I'm defending the black and white view of the world on both sides. It's just to clarify the short speech that Marek Benda had here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u13	Thank you. And now, with Mr Bláha's point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Blažek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u14	My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, I will use only factually not to hold back the long speeches here, and I will remind you all that I am certainly very glad that we have opened the execution. On the other hand, the fact that we're talking about debtors, we're talking about creditors, but no one's gonna mention businessmen. And I can say for myself that I've been dealing with executions all the time, because I've been in business for 30 years, and for 30 years, I've been having problems with employees who are in debt, overdebted, and it's that one side is in debt, and the other side is bad with those who lend. But most importantly, the most important thing is that companies are taking care of those indebted companies, because they are in daily contact with employees who are in debt, overdebted, they are in daily contact with the fact that the employee who has fallen into execution ceases to have the will to work, ceases to have the will to earn and comes up with a clear requirement: employ me as black as possible. Some go completely into the gray zone and, of course, most are those who are coming: but I can't live out of this. And I haven't heard a single suggestion here, although I've been to the Ministry several times, I've spoken to individual people from the Ministry, and I haven't heard a single suggestion that we'd get rid of the company's duty to pursue executions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u15	Time! Thank you. Good evening, esteemed colleagues. Mr Pavel Blažek and his two minutes will speak with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u16	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. I just had a brief reaction to my colleague Nacher. It is sometimes tempting to mix two normative systems, but they are completely different, and that is a moral system and a legal system. Saying he's some serious creditor, it's just not possible. He's a legitimate creditor. And the creditor we're talking about is already doing some execution, he's been through the forensics machine, and we're talking about the last phase. He went through a search trial, then the court told him he could debrief somebody. And talking about whether he's serious or not is just justified. And I wouldn't mess up those systems. And if we are to talk about morals - the Chairman of the ANO movement often refers to Baťa. I've already quoted something from Bat here before, so I won't do it again, but when the economic crisis broke out, for example, he said, it's not the economic crisis that comes first, it's the moral crisis. And the fact that we have so many debtors in executions today - the moral crisis comes first. Unfortunately, we do not have the levers to deal with the moral crisis, but we make the laws. And we have to create them by creating them with purely legal means, and we can't mix those two systems together, even if it's tempting. And it wouldn't work like it never worked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u17	Thank you for keeping time. I'll read an apology. Mr Jan Bauer apologizes from 20.15 to the end of the day. And we are going back to the general debate in which Mr Dominik Feri will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u18	Thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I wish you all a good evening. First of all, I'd like to start with the process itself. Honestly, quite frankly, I'm glad we're discussing this thing, even though some of them suspected that I was trying to make it look like I was interrupting a previous meeting or something, but I'm really glad. And while I have a lot of reservations about territoriality, I'm still not going to propose a return or rejection, and I'm not going to support it either, because I think both of these proposals... Or else. The pirate proposal or the opposition proposal, so there are some good solutions that can be taken over, and unfortunately, that's not what I feel about the government proposal. That's a suggestion that's gonna hurt everyone, and it's not gonna help anybody. First of all, I would like to respond to what Mr Okamura mentioned here and follow up in the general context. And I want to give that speech rather on such a level of recommendation, because the legal debate will be conducted in particular in the Constitutional and Legal Committee and it should not be worth mentioning here. That is why Vice-President Okamura mentioned the question of enforcement. And we met a little bit, because I, too, found a explanatory note for the opening part about the execution order itself, which says the following: The changes in the social and legal system have, however, been unfavorable in recent years on the effectiveness of the courts. The problem is not only the length of the finder's driving, but also the inefficiency and longness of the executioner's driving. After a successful litigation, it is often the case that, as a result of a lengthy and inflexible execution, the court-appointed right is not satisfied. [[20.30 hours]] That means the law came here 20. 9. 2000. I was four years old. And that means that, in fact, the desire of the legislators at that time was that the claimed claim should actually be carried out, that the decision, or the granted subjective right, would not be merely paper, but that it would actually be reflected in the actual non-legal reality. And when Vice-President Okamura, through Mr President, mentions that he would have brought it back, it seems to me that he did not talk at all to, for example, those lawyers or creditors who were active at the time. I haven't had that time of course, logically. But when I'm talking to them, they tell me interesting stories that we went down the road, that's when the court confessed something in the discovery process, we went down the path of judicial enforcement. And the bailiff had this stack of paperwork and he laughed in our faces and he said, "Come on, you'll see three percent, five percent in a year. This means that the average 25 percent that the bailiffs now have the power to extort is, on the other hand, very good. Even if, of course, with large reserves. If I were to quote further from the explanatory memorandum, the petitioners then mentioned that in countries where the institute of judicial executors had already been established, the higher efficiency of recovery is statistically recorded. On average, an increase in efficiency to 70 per cent is reported in expert sources. That means the ambition was higher, of course. So we have a big debt in this. But the idea that we would go back to a dysfunctional model of bailiffs, which was an adjustment that resulted from socialist law, when there was no consumer credit in the form of today, when, of course, the corporate loans were dealt with by some wage deduction and it simply couldn't be talked about any consumer credit boom, so it's an illusion that it might work. Thus, the enforcement of law is something we should be following, and I do not suspect the petitioner of any proposal that they would want to reduce the enforcement of law in the Czech Republic by territoriality and priori. My attitude is that a state that can't enforce a right, a court-appointed claim, such a state is ridiculous. But I think we should also monitor the level of enforcement when discussing this proposal in the Constitutional and Legal Committee and, above all, work with data. Well, about some of the observations and things that I think we should focus on and that I find interesting, for example, from seminars. So the first question of territoriality is whether the binding on permanent residence will really be beneficial. Because, for example, at one seminar, it was said from a representative of a large office that 34 percent of his mandatory duties were reported at the reporting room and 47 percent were staying elsewhere than in the place of permanent residence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u19	I understand. There aren't many of us in this room, but it would be nice if we...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u20	Why would I mention that? It does not necessarily mean that territoriality as such is an absolutely dysfunctional concept. I think, in some form, it should be accepted. But we should turn to the executor authorities and the chamber to give us more accurate data on how much experience they have in these individual offices, for example, with regard to replacement delivery, that these people are staying elsewhere than in a permanent residential area. Which is closely affecting the issue of delivery. When you ask the executor what's bothering him, which is not the usual question from politicians that anyone would ask the executors what's bothering them - but they actually say, "We would like us not to have such a large expense with delivery. We would like, for example, a mandatory datebook, or, if we know that this person is not really taking over, some equivalent of an insolvency register, some kind of electronic execution board or something like that. So we must undoubtedly solve the question of permanent residence. Furthermore, we should look at the issue of the protected account. I know that my colleague Valachová will be involved in this somehow. It may also be an interesting question for the Social Committee, because, for example, the insolvency law has been ordered by the Social Committee, but I do not see that representatives of the Social Committee nod to me that they want the press. Probably not, he's quite complicated. But protected chat, that's another thing. We should also try to make some analysis of whether the increased impact on the executives of large creditors can be reflected in end-customised prices. This remained forgotten, but it should be taken into account within the complexity of the solution to the proposal. Secretary, Dr. Schillerová, she's not here right now, so she won't hear me, I can speak freely. The state - VAT - receives hundreds of millions of crowns a year from the costs of execution. And those hundreds of millions of crowns a year come from those debtors. The money could go to pay off the debt, the debt, but it's going to the state. And let's really see if that's something we could look at. I don't think it's a government initiative, from government MPs, but that's, like, 21 percent of the costs of the enforcement procedure, that's a lot. And that's thousands, maybe tens of thousands, that could go to pay off the debt itself. It's also incontrovertible that the idea of the executions is falling. When I was looking for data here, in the North Bohemia Region in 2016, there were 131 newly launched items, only 99,000 in 2018. [[1000]] Which is a really hard-hit region for the bailout - it's getting better, it's getting better. But I think we should prospectively address the situation in the future so that it doesn't become such a stressful situation. And when I mentioned that we would be friendly as an MP, what exactly do I mean by not speaking abstractly? As part of the insolvency law, we may have been unfairly strict in those positions, let's say. We may have been too much in situations where it didn't have to be, stood up and tried to enforce the legitimate interests of the creditor. We will also do this in the framework of this amendment of the Enforcement Order, but we can already see from this the way in the form of some limited territoriality, in the form of some territoriality that would fall on the backpacking demands. But I must mention in advance that it is necessary to perceive this, for me at least, hand in hand with the draft law on judicial fees. Patrik's gonna mention it here because it's from his head. But I'm mentioning the court fees here for one reason. If we talk about negative claims - the law on court fees talks about 20 thousand, we can talk about 10 thousand - so it will increase the fee to double according to the Ministry of Justice's proposal. What are we saying to the creditors? You have a little claim here, some rent due, it'll cost you more to judge, it'll cost you more to fight for that right in the finder's trial, and then, theoretically, it can happen that you won't be able to choose an executor, and for God's sake, he'll pick the wheel for you an executor who won't be able to enforce your claim like another executor. In this context, I see it, in this context we should consider it. Thank you very much for discussing this. We have always voted for this to be discussed since the government's proposal was tabled. I am glad that it has finally come to that, and I look forward to hearing on the Constitutional and Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u21	Thank you. Mr Lukáš Kolařík, Mr Patrik Nacher, will take the next step in the general debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u22	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll take it fast because I'm aware of the advanced nighttime. As the plaintiff of the House press 295, or the plaintiffs' representatives, I defended him at the beginning of the first reading we had here last time. So I would like to say something more about this government proposal, which certainly brings a lot of interesting solutions and a lot of things that we agree on. There are some little things that need to be fixed, but I don't think there's anything serious. But what we have a major problem with there is precisely how we determine the executor, a so-called snowman who has been here several times, when the first creditor actually chooses his executor, but those other creditors can no longer. I think that this principle of the so-called snowman doesn't solve the situation that we have here and that we want to do something about right now, and rather than solve it, it would lead to some concreteization of the current state. Our proposal for local jurisdiction, the regional local jurisdiction, we think it's much better at this, even though I admit it, and it was said here that it also has its shortcomings. But these shortcomings are very, I think, a dignified balance of the benefits of the proposal. I'm not going to do anything in detail. I'd mention the three advantages I see here. And it's not paradoxically close to the debtor to the executor who's offering to be the territoriality, but the main advantage of the proposal, I see, is that there will be some independence of the executors. Today, the bailiff - and it works especially for large institutional creditors - is economically dependent on creditors, and if it doesn't work the way the creditor imagines, that is, it often goes to the edge or beyond that law, he would lose those contracts. And I think it's wrong. So the independence of the executors is, to me, the greatest and key advantage of our proposal. [[20.40 hours]] As another advantage, I'd see a merger of executions. No doubt that's clear to everyone. These people today are often not liquidated by having to pay their debt, because debts are to be paid, of course, but they are usually burdened by the fact that if you find the first execution, they very often follow others, because it is so low today that of course they fall all other liabilities. The merger of those executions will lead to the fact that the costs of enforcement will not be so large and will paradoxically allow the debtor to pay his debt more easily or his debts if he has more. When I talk to them, it is often said to me that when they get into some phase that they really want to deal with it, because they couldn't until then, they didn't have the money, they didn't have the background, but they decided to do something with their lives, pay their debts, so paradoxically it's the biggest barrier that they have to communicate with several executives at once. There's a different deal with everyone. Somebody's gonna give him a payment schedule, somebody's not. It's just hard for them to start dealing with the situation. Another and third advantage I see is the overview and simplification of the whole system. Today it's basically how complicated it is - I've prepared a little graph of the map here. [[shows the graph]] It's a model example where the debtor has four creditors, each executor is from a different corner of the Republic, and when I look at all the actions that have to be done that are indicated by the arrows, the system is just complicated. No one has an overview of how much the debtor has and how much the debtor doesn't have. Whereas if this amendment had gone through the local jurisdiction, as we propose, the execution process would have decreased considerably, there would have been much less and, of course, much less enforcement costs. That is why I think that it is not true, as it is often said, that it would reduce enforcement enforcement, but, on the contrary, I think that this will lead to an increase in enforcement, because the cost of enforcement will not be duplicated, so it will be much, much easier for the debtor to pay for it. The execution system has seen a lot of changes since it was actually transferred to private executioners. Some of the errors that the original proposal had were corrected by the House itself, some corrected by the Constitutional Court when it stated that they were not in accordance with the Constitution. In particular, I can name an adjudicatory decree, referee clauses. There has also been a reduction in the fees of executors and has been adopted - this is also important - the Consumer Credit Act. The execution environment has made great changes. I think it was a change for the better, and the system is set pretty well at the moment. The only thing missing is the impartiality and independence of the executors. That's what I think we have in the coming days a chance to fix it and really make sure it's already tuned up without a mistake. Soon I'll touch the support we have. The locality is also mentioned in the government's programming statement, it is contained in the government's strategy against poverty, where the strategy actually focuses on people not being poor, so that they do well in the Czech Republic. At the same time the affected regions are calling for it, these are the regions especially in the north, where really 20 percent of the people are in execution, which is a large number. It is called for by nonprofit organizations, even by the Executive Chamber itself, in its Assembly in 2014, that territoriality would be beneficial, and the public opinion poll I did last year showed that a large part of the population did not consider this method of allocating an executor fair and wanted a change. Only very briefly to the end. We've done some analysis that if only half of those people in the execution trap had helped us get back into the economy today, if they had started contributing to the state budget, they wouldn't have been employed black or grey or black, they would have added an estimated CZK 15 to 20 billion a year to the budget, which I think is a big number and it's worth thinking about how these people would get out of these traps, who didn't always get into them, but very often just the poorly set execution system, which was here in the past and which the Constitutional Court and the House have corrected several times. [[unintelligible]] In conclusion, I may ask that both of these prints be released for second reading and be assigned to the constitutionally-legal committee, where there may be a connection between these two proposed variants or possibly improvements. I must say, it's actually the wishes of Prime Minister Babiš himself. I here printed out his Facebook status, where he directly says that snowman and territoriality are two principles that are at the core right, but we have to get the best out of them. And for that, I intercede. Let's release both prints to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u23	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha is registered with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u24	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry, but I have to respond because the number that was said here is far and far greater. What our state is losing is at least 100 billion. A hundred billion a year we could have a state in our register if we changed the system of how executions are handled. I'll explain why. Because all those who fall into the execution are logically required to secure their family. How do they do that? It's not normal because they just can't make money because they lose everything. So they're running into the gray zone, so that's at least 5,000 per taxpayer who's in executions that won't give up the state a month. So do the math, times the number of executioners. And then these people are the most common applicants for contributions from the state. So we're gonna put it back in their housing contributions, etc. etc. And then these people still have their families, the family falls into it, so in that gray economy, at that point, the whole family is going. It's an incredible number, it's up to 3 million people who are in that enforcement circle. And believe me, it's the company's biggest burden. And if you're all still declaring that you want to help businessmen, let's just do what we can to get rid of the paperwork. Just let the bailiff or the execution trial sort it out, and the employer will still be worried about his sheep when they have to work with them every day to come to work, work, want to work and motivate them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u25	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u26	Thank you for the floor. I have to fully agree with my colleague Bláha here. I would like his career in the ANO movement to go up steeply and make a commitment to finding the 100 billion crowns in the execution system. And they might actually be there. I would like to remind you that we have already submitted a draft amendment to the Enforcement Order 2. 10. 2018, which means it's been here for over a year now because the government has submitted 9. 7. 2019 your government proposal, so we can finally discuss it. And because we agreed on this with President Faltýnek on a discussion program. So we've managed to find a match. For us, it's one of our 20 priorities. I believe that even on the basis of what the Prime Minister has promised, we will be able to create a proposal that will combine both the packaging and the territoriality, and we will finally solve the problem for some 820,000 people who are in executions, of which 480 thousand have three or more executions. So it's a really big problem. Even in some - I printed the map here from the Internet - in some of these regions there is every fifth person in executions. [[shows]] So logically, it is quite critically crippling our population's workforce. We even had the execution system measured by the way citizens look at it, and it turns out that 60% of Čech see a problem in the execution system, in the setting. We're here to set up the enforcement of a law that will be rational at the same time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u27	Thank you. In the general debate, Mr Patrik Nacher will speak, and Mrs Eva Fialová will be prepared. Mrs Margita Balaštíková apologizes until the end of the negotiations today. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, Mr Vice-President, I'm a little sorry that we're discussing such an important matter and such matters as execution at quarter to nine in front of a half-empty hall, but what can be done, thank God we're discussing this at all. I'd take the liberty of taking a field trip in that thesis so we know where we are. Don't worry, it's not obstruction, there are other masters here, but to know the context of the situation. But first, I would like to answer my colleague Dominik Feri about VAT. I was trying to, if he remembers, the so-called one. insolvency amendments, because this also applies to insolvency administrators, the 21 percent, and the executors who make the system more expensive, and actually the state participates in it in principle, we can say sometimes it parasites. Unfortunately, there we are bound - I am not an expert in tax laws - by European standards, that the legal services are at the basic rate of VAT. I wish it was a zero or a reduced rate, unfortunately, it isn't. If you look at history, you'll find that the House has passed the law on bailiffs 26. 1. 2001, so we've had him here for 18 years. And I'm gonna follow up on what Marek Benda was talking about, about the black and white world, and I'm gonna take it more about how we're here on the swing. You will remember that in the 1990s, the debtors had a paradise here, that creditors could hardly get anything out of them, which is why in this context this standard arose, because the law was low enforcement in favour of creditors. And all of a sudden, we got back to the very other side of the swing, and since then we can just record these debt traps, we can record child executions here to an extent that is unprecedented in Europe. We can also record illegal executions here, which have been going on even since 2011, when there were those judicatures that I mentioned in my previous contribution. So there's an invalid execution somewhere between 100 and 200,000 that goes on for eight years. This was all the result of going from extreme to extreme, as is unfortunately common in the Czech Republic. However, since 2014, and this is important for the context of the government proposal, many things have changed. I'll take it telegraphically so I don't delay, then I'll enjoy it somewhere in the second and third reading. First of all, since 2015, you will remember that the protection of the debtor's spouse has increased as part of the execution was one of those changes. Then, in the same year, in September 2015, with the amendment and amendment of the Code of Justice and the Enforcement Order, so called. A more gentle execution, that means that he made such a taxative list of things that are excluded from the execution of the decision, which was not until then. But above all, beware, if the amount recovered does not exceed 30,000, the execution of the decision will not be dealt with by the sale of the immovable property. Which was all the stuff that happened before. If we look further, the tariff changed in 2017 and the execution plan went down, the reward went down from 3,000 to 2,000. The executor's communication with banks was then simplified. Then some other models of some executive documents were created to simplify the whole thing. And we're getting, I'm saying, I'm taking it telegraphically, we're getting about to the present. Here I would like to remind you of two amendments to the insolvency law that are closely related to this. I'm going to remind you of the increase in an unusable minimum, or the border from which it collids without limitation. I remind you that this amount was 16 072 and increased by the government to 25 715 to motivate those people to make more money so that they would not be in the grey economy, so that it would not prevent them from asking for better-respected jobs. You probably also know that we are preparing, and I am discussing this with the Ministry of Justice - about increasing the lower amount, that is the unforgivable amount, which today is 6 429, solved in such a complicated way by calculating two thirds of the costs of housing in the municipality up to 100,000 and living minimum, with this amount not moving for several years. And once again, it might help in that situation. As a result of these positive changes, and I've just made a list here, it's that 505 thousand executions started in 2008, which is 106 thousand less executions than in 2017. And for the first time, please nicely, for the first time in history in 2018, more executions were completed, that is, 540 thousand, against the 505 than those that were newly launched. That means the trend, I believe, is improving. The number of executions thus gradually declines. However, we have a category of people here where the trend has not stopped, and on the contrary, it is getting worse, these are pension executions. That means the situation in the elderly is getting worse permanently. Where the situation is also getting worse, there are 10 or more executions in people who have multiple executions. That's 160,000 now. When I started giving lectures on financial literacy in 2011, there were, I guess, 60,000. That's where it went up very strongly and very fast. This means that the changed conditions that have been going on in the last four years at the Ministry of Justice and in the last two governments can solve and can somehow solve those people who are in those executions that are one, two, three executions, but the multiple executions are still ahead of us, and the situation is getting worse there. That means they're trendy. As Dominik Feri has already revealed, I myself am going to prepare, I hope that with many colleagues, some proposal that I have formally called a backpacking territory, it is a working title, we will certainly have fun at second reading, and I think, in conjunction with the government proposal, it will be the right nut to follow up on all the changes that I have been talking about and which improve the situation in the field of execution. Thank you for your attention, I've taken it really in a hickey, and I wish you a good evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u29	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr. Jiří Bláha is registered and with priority rights - I register...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u30	You're looking at me, I know why, but I have to respond to Patrik, because in practical life, it doesn't work that way, that if wages go up, I'm not interested in having her higher in a month. It's just normal for us to get used to higher money quickly and see how we can make more money again. So if we let those executors stay a little bit more, but it's really small, we don't actually figure out the nature of the thing, because each of us has different needs of life, and of course with time they're trying to move on and on. So if I have life needs with a woman of 20 grand, a second family of 30, another 50, someone 100 - and believe that each of us will do our utmost to get the money. So if the bailiff takes them away from me, I'm gonna make a living. I'll just and simply secure the family. That's when the state keeps losing the money. And count it, if we had 100 billion, we wouldn't have to argue about a bunch of things here at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u31	Another factual point, Mr Dominik Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u32	Thank you. Very briefly, really. I will be very happy to have Mr Bláha, through the President, come to us on the subcommittee, because we really welcome everyone there, there is really work to be done, perhaps too much, Marek leads very strictly. And one particular thing that I think would suit Mr Bláh through Mr President, because he is an employer, is the question of preferential claims and the question of a third-rate system, if that would not be worth reviewing. It did. The bailiffs say it was. Deputies of debtors say it was. Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u33	Mr Lukáš Kolářík, with a factual remark. Mr. Jiří Bláha will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u34	Thank you. I just want to respond very quickly to my colleague Patrik Nacher. She's right that the newly ordered executions are falling unlike the old ones. The trend is really positive. It's partly because of the changes that have happened in the past. But it must also be taken into account that there is some conjucture, the economy is working, everyone is doing well, unemployment is not, and everything is actually beautiful and pink. The situation could be completely different, if there's a nine- or 10% unemployment requirement, it can shoot again very quickly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u35	Thank you. Member Jiří Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u36	I'm just telegraphing. As far as the amount is concerned, or what to pull down, it's quite simple again. Let's just set a fixed amount for them to pay. And at that point, the person knows that if he takes care of it, that means he's gonna work officially, then he's gonna make as much money as he needs. That means, let's say yes, you're a chef, you're normally 30, we're gonna tear you down 10. And the chef says, okay, so I'm gonna work twice as hard and make 50, and I'm gonna have what I need for my family again. It's simple. Let's set him a fixed amount based on normal working hours, which can be determined because what I'm doing has some sort of evaluation, and then let the person take care of it. But most importantly, let's allow them to work officially, because today's work schedule doesn't allow them to. Overtime hours up to 25. Thanks to this, all the doctors who work today are actually working in violation of the Labour Code. So let's do the same thing about just not having to have one, two, ten contracts and cheating, but with one employer per job ratio a fixed amount, and it's all going to work out perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u37	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Farský is a Member. I'll read the note. Mr Jiří Kobza apologizes today between 20.15 and midnight for family reasons and Mrs Květa Matušovská today from 19.50 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to deliver the opinion of the Mayors' Club and independent of these two press. Here we are quite in agreement with the Prime Minister, who stated in his status in his Sunday sermon on Facebook that the right solution is the combination of territoriality and concentration with the snowman. And we will be eager to work on drawing up a comprehensive amendment in the subcommittee that will honour that promise, because the government proposal does not yet contain concentration, sorry, does not contain territoriality. And we think it's a mistake. So in this regard, we want the laws to be discussed and moved forward in the House regime so that we can reach some meaningful solution as soon as possible that will fulfill the promises that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u39	Thank you. In the general debate, Mrs Eva Fialová will speak. Mr Fridrich will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u40	Have a good night. I'm not gonna be long, and I'm definitely gonna talk from practice. I'm not a lawyer, I don't know exactly how to set up a fair system, but I'm gonna talk from practice to people I meet every day, I think everyone knows I'm from the Ústí Region, specifically Ústí nad Labem, where every fourth person is burdened with execution. They're people I meet every day on the street. Some of us don't know they're being executed. But then we have a lot of people in debt right now in socially excluded localities that are being talked about and saying long-shot things about how they should be dealt with. And these people are burdened with one, two, three, and I have cases where there are eighteen executions. And I would like to follow up on Mr Benda here through Mr President and tell him that, at the beginning, the debtor himself is responsible for the execution. But we're trapped in our circle by executions, I'm going to pick up Mr. Bláha, where people are going into our grey economy. How does it work? I'd like to disprove the myth that all people are always addicted to other doses. In the beginning, yes. They're going to the gray zone of the economy. And since they're sent to an interview they can't attend, and they know very well that they're gonna make a lot more in the gray zone, they're gonna reject the job, and they're gonna get kicked out of the employment office. At that point, there's another debt because they don't pay social security. And six months later, when they can rejoin the Labor Office, they're gonna have another social security bailout. So work on black causes more and more executions. And we have to put an end to this once and for all. We have to give it a chance to break out of these circles. And any way we choose will only be good. I'll also pick up Mr. Bláha, who here said that entrepreneurs are burdened. Yes, they are, because the calculation of the amount itself that will be deducted from the execution is very complex. When interviewing for a job, he's mostly a personalist, or some department manager, where he's supposed to go. And when a candidate asks me how much you're going to be pulling off my executions, they're not going to be able to tell him because it's calculated by a very complicated payroll accountant. That is why I am opening up to the next debate, and I will be happy if I can participate in the subcommittee, where there is a proposal for 10 per cent to be deducted from the salary, because these people can calculate it and it will be clear how much it will be, whether the amount of the salary is going to be so much or so. I am so glad that we are finally discussing the execution here and finally maybe the Ústí Region will get into better solvency because if we do not have an economically strong population, we will always be the region that will be neglected, never be strong and always look what it will look like. And I thank you for having me here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u41	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická will make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support Mrs Fialová here very quickly, because I think you all know that we are from the same region, and that is Ustecký. And as colleagues have shown the map here, we are really one of those who are actually at the worst. Colleagues, but also colleagues here, of course, have already said the statistical figures in the previous discussions. I would like to say that the area of execution is also included around the negotiations of 15 measures to combat poverty, because every time we talk about some possibility of remedying the really terrible situation in the Ústí Region, the next step is always to address the area of execution. Of course, they are also people who are on welfare benefits, but they are also ordinary citizens. According to the statistics we have, we know that this is not just about people who have low levels of education, but also about high school students and college students. And I think it's really necessary for the government to finally realize that this solution should be dealt with in this way, not in five minutes to 12, but it's already twenty past twelve. It's just a quick one, too. I am glad that the debate has merged, because the Pirates' parliamentary proposal speaks of the territoriality. It is not perfect, as we have spoken in those other discussions and in the subcommittee. But I believe that this debate should also be linked to the government proposal, because the elements of territoriality really should be inserted into the future approved legislation. I believe that the Minister will behave in the best possible way, and those elements of territoriality could be introduced, for example, by an amendment in cooperation in the final form of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u43	Mr Fridrich will speak in the general debate, Mr Hrnčíř will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u44	Good evening, Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to comment briefly on the House's 295 press and express a slightly different opinion than many of my previous speakers here. I would like to stress that my opinion is based on consultation with practical lawyers who are involved in judicial practice. Law 295 could lead to an excessive increase in the administrative burden on the courts. These would be carried out in addition to their usual activities as well as those which now belong to executioners, such as the removal of defects in execution proposals, rejection, rejection of proposals, registration in the register initiated by executions, etc. This is also linked to the risk of prolonged execution and the importance of executioners as such is suppressed. The original intention why the executor system was introduced into the legal order was to remove the courts from the execution of the judgment, which did not actually work at all. Therefore, I do not consider it right for the courts to return to the activities carried out by the executives so far. In relation to the principle of territoriality introduced by the parliamentary proposal by the executors, it is necessary to realise that the executors in the Czech legal order have the status of a specific entrepreneur rather than the extended hand of the court. It is therefore questionable whether the local jurisdiction of executors should be subject to judicial rules. This parliamentary proposal also contains a number of legislative technical problems. An example is § 37 para. 3 for which it is unclear whether it relates at the time of issue or to the service of the mandate to conduct the execution. The proposal is also inconsistent, for example there is a discrepancy between Sections 44b and 39b. Both provisions address situations where it becomes apparent that the executioner has been designated in violation of the law. In one case, the court of execution is to decide in the second district court, in whose territory the court of execution is operating. For the reasons set out above, I propose to reject the parliamentary proposal at first reading, and I think it is even more effective and practical to lead the debate further to one House press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u45	Thank you. This is Parliament's proposal 295, reject first reading, okay? [[The MP agrees.]] Mr Dominik Feri will make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I don't think that motion to dismiss is reasonable. For a simple reason. I think it was a good habit that when there were different patterns that dealt with the same material, they went for a walk. Just from the title, so we have something to choose from. I do not really think that a government amendment can be a good substrate for a comprehensive amendment to be applied to it. In fact, there are as many rules as those laid down in Article 4 of the Transitional Provisions. Those are the three sides of the transitional clause that solves, what if the debtor doesn't have an executor in that particular court district, and there's a very complicated transition there. It's just not gonna be the...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u47	I'm here to discuss further progress, so I'm sorry I didn't listen to what's going on in the O.R. for about two seconds. So I'm gonna ask you all to calm down! It's 21.14, we have three enrolled in the debate, and if we want to do this by midnight tonight, we really should be working effectively here. If we're having fun, we're not discussing anything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u48	Thank you, Mr President, I hope you will set my time. That means, I don't think it's wise to get rid of a pattern that, although opposition, is affected by flaws, but the flaws can be repaired and it can be made into something that together is for the benefit and satisfaction of the majority. So this proposal, I certainly don't think it's possible that it's appropriate and it'll solve something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u49	Mr Jan Hrnčíř in the general debate. And I don't know if I've made myself perfectly clear about the noise in the House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's proposal is, among other things, aimed at ensuring that enforcement proceedings brought against the same mandatory concentration are concentrated in one judicial executor. The executioner would be obliged to enter in the register the execution data provided by law without undue delay in order to ascertain as soon as possible which executioner is leading against the mandatory prior execution procedure and for which executioner the proceedings against the same mandatory procedure are therefore to be concentrated. However, this creates a problem with increasing the cost of recovery. Because under these new conditions, another executioner will hand the execution to the executioner leading the first execution proceedings, regardless of the extent of the claim and the distance to the mandatory one, which is an essential deficiency in this government amendment. On the contrary, the submitted amendment to the Enforcement Order by the House print 295, which I co-submitted, introduces the regional local jurisdiction of executors, i.e. the principle of territoriality, and at the same time the merging of the executions required by one executor, i.e. the principle of one debtor - one executioner. The creditor would now submit his application to the enforcement court, which is usually the district court at the place of permanent residence of the debtor, the court will determine, according to a clearly established key, an executioner with its registered office in the same region as the execution court, i.e. the permanent residence of the debtor. In the case of legal persons, therefore, the registered office of the debtor. Any further execution against the compulsory one will then be assigned by the court to the same previously appointed executor. This will result in a merger of executions with one executor in the permanent residence of the debtor. As a result of this adjustment, the impartiality of the executor and its independence from the legitimate one will be strengthened. By leading all executions one executioner will thus obtain a mandatory overview of the number of executions against the compulsory and real enforcement of claims through the executioner and through it. Therefore, a reduction in the number of unenabled executions can also be expected. By merging the execution of one debtor under one executor, a significant administrative burden will also be removed for third parties. Employers, insurance companies, banks etc. they will handle only one request for information for one executor, not a quantity of the same applications for more executives managing claims of one debtor. Moreover, the merger will reduce the costs of the proceedings, which will increase the possibility of repayment on the part of the debtor. It is the local jurisdiction of judicial executors that is introduced in most Member States of the European Union. So I would like to support our bill proposal, which will make executions significantly cheaper and help people from debt traps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u51	Thank you. The next will be presented in the general debate by Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u52	Mr President, fellow Members, Government, first of all, I thank all those present in the Chamber for your presence and for the fact that we are still in arms at this late time, and we are discussing such an important matter, and I will be very brief. I want to say the position of social democracy on the two press debates. Firstly, we support the principle of one debtor - one executor. We also support the principle of territoriality. Here I point out in the sense of regional judicial territory. We also support the principles that are woven into the government's proposal and concern stopping executions for the impossibility of recovery. Likewise, we would like to contribute to the future debate by the Institute of the Protected Account so that we can bring this institute into our right and we will strive to support the majority in the House as well as, of course, the support of the Minister of Justice. So briefly and again, thank you for your vigilance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u53	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar is the last member of the general debate so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, you who have remained in this hall will be pleased to give me a moment of attention, because this subject, which is before us, is very serious. And I don't think they deserve to be discussed at such a late hour when everyone's tired, and as they say, they'd like to get it over with quickly. I firmly believe that my speech brings down the actual remarks that disagree with my opinion, yet here I have to say a few things from my own practice and from my life's experience with this issue. Why did debt traps arise? How was the first time? Because we are currently dealing with the effect of these proposals, the impact. But let's talk about responsibility. The responsibility of those who stood at the beginning. Unfortunately, I myself had the experience and I perceive the problem in a broader context. At the beginning of the negative debts, which then grew to x-fold the results, there were municipalities. You hear me well. Mayors and all those who say that the most sensible governance is in the community and that the mayors are the ones who are the best. Because every slightly larger community that manages claims had a lawyer. It recovered these claims. She was trying to contact these people and get them. These are all the claims for the rent, usually below the large heights, or even the badass ones for the black ride in transport, which ended up in the municipalities. Even what happened after the executor law was passed? And now you'll probably tell me for the truth that every almost major community was approached by representatives of these executors and in some mysterious way convinced the village leadership that they just sold them the claim package. They even justified it by saving money. We're gonna save our money on recovery and save our money on a lawyer, and we're gonna have more time. Then the packages were sold. That then the bailiffs are making x-fold on them and that the municipalities will pay more social benefits and they will have to take more care of those people because they fell into the debt traps, no one has. So here I would welcome all those who, at the beginning of the execution problems, stood by their noses, that those communities that sold out these debts had their share of the blame. And here I am leaning to the fact that the proposal also deals with the fact that all those who fall under the administration or self-government were obliged to recover their claims themselves. We're dealing with an enforcement complex and a complex of territoriality in the context of the adjustment of executors, but we have institutions here, they're municipalities, they're self-governing bodies and state organizations, and they all should enforce their claims themselves and not have them enforced by private institutions. That should be the basis, the first step, to get rid of some of the state's internal responsibility for causing something. Because I still don't think it's the ordinary debtors' fault, it's worth it that he started this executive business here. The second problem, which I quite perceive, is that as a state, we neglected regulation. And remember the commercials ten fifteen years ago, when it was common in small print advertising - interest of 100, 200, 300 percent, if not more. I mean, it's usury! Let us ask how it is possible that we have admitted this as politicians. [[Noise in the hall.]] And here I'm asking on the right of the thinning rows. How could you, colleagues and colleagues, admit that there were companies here that lent to people at this kind of loan interest? Because that's why those people fell into those executions, and then they were forced to respond and defend themselves with other loans. But that was a free enterprise. Everyone has the freedom to decide. But, as you can see, at some point, many people are unable to slow down their motives. And here they might even be able to tell me the truth about psychology, how shopping fever works, how it works for a person who goes to the store to buy something and buys three times more. And that's not what we're asking, but we're referring to these people - but they knew they weren't supposed to borrow, they knew they were going to have a payback problem, and they were going to be aware of that. Well, at some point, these people just have this problem. But throwing all the blame at them, I find that highly hypocritical. On the other hand, we have institutions that lend to them. How is it that a person who is already registered in different registers, in solusses, and I don't know what everything, x-fold as a debtor, finds an institution that has access to these registers, so you've illustrated it, how is it possible that he can still get another loan? Today, the fashion hit is called credit consolidation and so on. How is it that others actually feed on his misfortune that he has and lend it to him afterwards? Here I would welcome, for example, the proposal that, well, the one who first lent to the person should be 100% covered in his loan, but the successors who are already lending him should be reduced to their rights, even so far that the third one he lent him should have it as an unsecured loan. And it's his own risk that he lent the funds. That might be a solution that would affect not the poor, but the ones in those white collars that lend them out, and they're out here in this business that's big. [[Noise in the hall.]] And the third problem that I want to draw attention to, and which I don't even hear, is family loans. Try to think about it with each other, how much money is borrowed within the family, often irretrievably borrowed by me, because he is a relative who borrowed from me. But how many of these loans actually end up with these people to help them, and how many were just hammering their laps to get somebody to rub on it? This is a problem that we are not dealing with here at all and which we take for granted, although I see it as a much bigger problem, because it crashes interpersonal relations, it crashes family solidarity and it is a problem that nobody mentions at all and no one solves at all. So I believe that in the second reading we will have enough time to deal with all these questions, so that it is not called and discussed at these times, when there is really no capacity for us to deal in detail with these things, and we will approach this with all responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u55	I also thank you and now, with Mr Bláha's point of fact, then Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u56	I'm really gonna finish this, my performance... [[- Please, calm down.]] I'm just gonna ask you one question, and that's: who did it all, that. What we've heard, he's doing the best in the end? Most of all, these employers, because they have to collect all the money, they have to work with these people, they have to make sure that the money comes to the right place, they have to make sure they communicate with the executor, and they have absolutely nothing to do with it. They come to it blind to violins, in effect, instead of thanking them for employing people, we add more work to them and we want to solve it by giving them fifty crowns for one case. For me, nonsense, let's think about it. [[Noise in the hall.]] It is simply necessary to take all the responsibilities of entrepreneurs, because the greatest duty is to worry about those people who work and are in executions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u57	Thank you, too, and I'll introduce you to a note. Mr Benda apologizes for his family's reasons after twenty-first hour. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, it's 9:30 p.m., I have training from the Prague City Hall, where we're going until 6:00 a.m., so I'm full of strength, so I have no problem discussing. I'd like to have a little reaction, and I'd like to discuss it with Leo Luzar. He was describing the situation here, which, perhaps I took the historical excursion very quickly, I should have gone into more detail, because here I would like to remind you of the amendment to the Consumer Credit Act, which applies from 1. 12. 2016, which is currently very limited and avoids what my colleague Luzar described here quite precisely, which means that it is no longer possible today. There were 60,000 loan providers here earlier, registered today, now don't hold my breath, at the CNB some eighty, I don't know. They didn't have to examine the bonita before, now it's explicitly written that they have to examine the credit of the debtor. That means they're looking at SOLUS, BRKI, NRKI, they're getting various receipts, and so on, and if they find out that they wouldn't be looking at the bonita -- watch out for it -- the debtor only pays the principal according to his options. That means these things have really shifted and changed. I just don't want it to fit in. What we're dealing with here is this stuff from the past, not what's happening right now. That's just to clarify what my colleague Luzar said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-11-06-ps2017-035-09-011-999.u59	Thank you. And with the last point of fact, Mr Feri. [[Voices from the diaper: No!]] It's jamming, okay. Thank you. In that case, I no longer have any factual remarks or applications for the debate, so if no one calls for a merged debate, I will conclude the merged debate.
