ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u1	7. Government bill on experts, expert offices and expert institutes / House print 72/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the bill submitted will be stated by the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. And he's in a hurry. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of my second reading, I present the Government's proposal for a law on experts, experts' offices and expert institutes, which forms part of the package, which we would like to redefine not only expert activities, but also interpretation activities, and thus replace today's already inadequate law on experts and interpreters, which is from 1967, and although it has been amended several times in the past, it is largely due to the time when it arose and is written on completely different social conditions than what we are currently in. The new law on experts and related new law on interpreters has been planned for quite a long time. He's been talked about for years. It was even presented in the previous parliamentary term. The current form was presented to the Chamber of Deputies in January last year...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u3	I'll ask for some peace in the room. Please, on the left, in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u4	Thank you. And if I take this very briefly, the aim of this proposal is, in particular, to create conditions for better performance of expert activities, so tightening the conditions for who can become an expert and under what conditions the expert is to carry out an expert activity, tightening the licensing procedure, i.e. the granting of authorisations for the performance of an expert activity, including the compulsory examination which the experts would have to undergo, the strengthening of the supervisory supervision activity and the transparency of the expert's activities through, among other things, the transparency of the activities. the introduction of expert opinion records, tightening up of penalties which would be imposed for breach of obligations, etc. The proposal has been discussed in detail in the committee discussions. Eventually, individual amendments will be presented. At this point, I am saying that we have been very intensive in communicating with all the stakeholders and we have also worked together in the preparation of amendments that we have found rational in a number of cases, and these are, in particular, the proposals that are summarised in the resolution of the Constitutional Committee. On the other hand, and I may also be a little ahead of myself, there will be amendments that we do not agree with. We do not agree with them because, in my view, the legislation should be as general as possible so as to affect all the scope of the expert activity. For the record, we currently have 8 599 experts and more than 300 expert institutes in the Czech Republic. At the same time, some amendments are fundamentally initiated by four of the largest expert institutes, and we also use for them the designation of a large four, but this is only a fraction of the issue which is concerned by the expert activity. At the same time, I submit that by submitting the bill to the Chamber of Deputies, plus minus a few days ago exactly a year ago, I also strongly support the amendment, which will also be heard, and that is to postpone the effectiveness of the law. We originally wanted it to be effective from 1 January 2020. In fact, by being a year further, I strongly support that the effectiveness will be postponed to January 1, 2021, among other things. in order to properly prepare all the steps that the introduction of this new very necessary law will mean, including the creation of the necessary information systems, in which the records of experts, expert institutes and expert offices themselves will be kept, as well as the records of expert opinions. So much for the introduction of this proposal for the purposes of second reading and, if necessary, I am prepared to respond to specific things that would concern this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u5	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a committee of guarantee, and the press was ordered by the Committee on Health. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 72/1 to 72/4. I would ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee, Mrs Helena Válková, take the floor and inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u6	Thank you. Mr President, my dear colleagues, I present that this is actually the first stone of justice reform, and I say this with the knowledge that experts at first sight do not belong to justice, but they participate in their opinions, and interpreters, often in the outcome of judicial proceedings, whether criminal or civil, and unfortunately we know from practice, and that we are witnessing this in recent times even in such cases where there are really concerns about the throats and the goods, see Kramný, Brave, that not always the expert opinions are clear, well processed, see sister from Rumburk, and that they are therefore, say, a category of experts honor. This is, among other things, an outdated vague legislation which does not provide enough standards for the judiciary to lay on expert opinions, not only on prosecutions, prosecutors' work, judgments, or on the work of judges, but also on those who work in this area in a broader sense and influence immediate decision-making. And I'm sure they're experts. So after this wider introduction, I'm just going to point out what we see in this reform and why, even though I don't like it, I raised my hand to let go of the second reading. And here I confirm the words of the Minister of Justice, I think it will be confirmed by Members, Mr Michálek, for pirát, for KSČM Mr Ondráček, that the Ministry of Justice has cooperated with us, we have put together a comprehensive amendment, which we have moved the reform to where we think it should go, or not only that the expert will have the right and certainty when he meets the conditions that he will be appointed, appointed as an expert, but also that he will know what standards are expected of him, what he will be controlled for, what he will be responsible for, and what disciplinary responsibility he will be, and especially that everything will be united. It will not matter whether he was appointed a forensic expert at the Regional Court in Pilsen, or in Ústí nad Labem, or in Brno. It's just centralization. This is why the proposed shift of legisvakance to 2021 is also proposed and a department will be created, which will specially deal with the expertise of the activities, and will, of course, have an overview of all expert opinions and will also check the formal requirements, among other things at ministries. I would just like to point out that the provisions in question, which are in the original government proposal, must have changed significantly, and at the same time, and that was a matter which I personally hated very much, but not only I, I think most of the members of the constitutional committee, that there was a favourite category of expert institutes, public expert institutes of universities, and that was quite intrigued by the role of expert offices, which I think we have also managed to adjust in a balanced manner. There's no way to make an equal. This is really not how we understood the concept of reform. And that's the last draft of the strong four, I'm going to say also, which appreciates the property and sees it through the optics only by the valuation of the property a little bit simplisticly and, of course, in its favour. So not like this. However, we have balanced the position and, at present, by adopting a resolution at its 29th meeting, which took place on 9 November 2018, which was actually adopted by my amendment, nevertheless closely worked out in cooperation with the petitioner, the Ministry of Justice. We accepted it, so with the only exception that we have mentioned here, I actually have to commend it very much as rapporteur disciplined then, in accordance with the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee, those amendments have already formulated a text that has changed by adopting the comprehensive amendment. So please, we have to come out of this complex bill, virtually. of this bill amended by the comprehensive amendment, and to this is related to those amendments that will be read by other Members, except, perhaps, by Mr Benda's proposal, the last one that represents the strong four, which was therefore at the last moment and which partly returns to that government proposal, which has long been overcome. And so I dare say that he's a little bit unsystemic, but fundamentally contradictory. The resolution of the Constitutional Committee was adopted in this sense and the Constitutional Committee recommended the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to approve the proposal and to approve it as amended by my amendment, which was inserted under number 1479. I may have given you a little reason for this resolution. Otherwise, if someone wanted it, and you have the right to read it all, it's eight pages that really represent the interventions I was talking about by their own size. So centralization, the duty of expert offices to have at least two experts, the responsibility of expert institutes for having experts to co-sign. Then the amendments that make this more precise, Mr Ondráček, in relation to certain expert institutes, which would otherwise have problems meeting all the standards, Mr Michálek, who improved significantly, for example, the standards that are required for an expert opinion and imposed new obligations there. I would just like to say completely at the end of my introductory words that we have, of course, not forgotten the ones to which this standard is addressed, and these are experts. We held a seminar. We held a round table in March. We invited them several times to a meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee. I've met them x-times in a variety of ways. So if there is anything I can guarantee you, my dear Members, this standard has been discussed with experts on an ongoing basis, and although not all experts from all sectors, because between property valuation and perhaps psychiatry is relatively far enough away, they will, of course, not be satisfied, yet I am sure that the new regulation will be better than the previous one. And all the way to the end. Of course, it is assumed that with a new responsibility, with new quality requirements, with the level of transparency and with everything related to the new concept of expert activity as a quality service for quality decision-making by the court, there is, of course, a significant increase in the remuneration for expert activity. That is what experts have rightly complained about for many years. So if that's enough. Otherwise, of course, I am as available as the Minister, because the standard is not quite easy, not perhaps legally, but from an organisationally administrative point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u7	Thank you. And I will ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Kaňkovský, to inform us of the discussion in their committee, to justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u8	Mr President, honourable members of the government, my dear colleagues, the Health Committee has dealt with the House press 72 at its two meetings. The first meeting was November 7th, and it interrupted the discussion of this point. Subsequently, at its 30th meeting on 21 November, the Health Committee recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's proposal for a law on experts, expert offices and expert institutes. And it is summarised in the Houses of the Press 72/4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u9	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate, in which Vice-President Okamura signed up with priority rights first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are discussing a government bill on experts, experts' offices and expert institutes, and I must say that, from our point of view, of course, legislation needs a more precise law on experts. However, this proposal, in the original version that we are discussing here, changes in many ways some conditions for expert experts, but complains to the public that it has not been consulted sufficiently. He is not considered good by renowned experts and seems to have made vain comments. For example, the law sets different requirements for an expert institute and an expert office, thus creating an unequal position for these institutions. The law also provides a bit of controversy and inexactly for the joint and several liability of the expert-employee who works for the expert office for the damage caused. This will, however, be totally unacceptable for the individual experts and contrary to the Labour Code and the employment contracts of those persons. It's unacceptable to them. The proposal does not make it clear whether the experts-employees will have this joint and several liability for injury even if they partly participated in the expert opinion. Experts working in an expert office will usually not be able to decide on the final form of an expert opinion by virtue of the nature of their employment classification, nor can they be responsible for the assessment. And of course, there are more conflicting paragraphs that are necessary in this government bill, and we just hope that they will be corrected for the final third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u11	Thank you. Next, Mr Ondráček is entered into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u12	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members, I do not know if you have been able to grasp everything, as the rapporteur, Mrs Válková, spoke about the law. I would have just a little bit backwards, as we discussed this law, if you recall, on 25 May last year I spoke here under this law, but even those laws that follow up on it, about court interpreters etc., and basically not only I, but a number of my colleagues, or colleagues, we criticized the submitted material from the workshop of the Ministry of Justice of the time, Pelikán, even the proposals for a re-evaluation which were not adopted, and also the rapporteur, in essence - and I mentioned it here, I would like to recall it precisely - just out of political correctness to her political colleague, did not tell the true state of this material, which was presented to us here, and so I quite wished that in those two months, because I had reduced the time limit for committee discussions in the second reading to two months, so that my colleagues would have done a good job and tried to redesign it, because it would not have been easy. And you can see that the words that I said on 25 May 2018 were essentially confirmed, because we were at the end of January, so the period that was originally two months, which the Minister shortened from standard three months to two, was fulfilled and four times exceeded. On the other hand, of course, it would have to be said that, as I predicted, the rapporteur and the Ministry of Justice did a great deal of work and prepared the complex amendment, which is now taken as the basis of the whole material. Basically, we can say that the rapporteur did the job for the Ministry of Justice, or for the then Minister Pelikán. So my colleagues at the Justice Department have just been very helpful in doing so and helped us in a lot of ways. And, as the rapporteur mentioned, it was then that the constitutional committee adopted the comprehensive amendment as the basis for the discussion of this press 72 that we found some still partial shortcomings that the comprehensive amendment was unable to contain because, as they say, we were basically on our knees. My amendment, which I have inserted into the system and which I will then apply to, responds to the request of the institution, which is the Prague Criminalistic Institute, which celebrated 60 years of its existence last year, and it is the leading top scientific workplace in the field of criminalism. Together with this institute, such things as the Pyrotechnic Service of the Police of the Czech Republic, which makes expert opinions in the field, and, of course, the Military Police as the Institute and, of course, its specialists in the Military Police, were forgotten. [[unintelligible]] So I have called for a new meeting with the Ministry of Justice, and we have negotiated an amendment that responds precisely to the problems that would be caused by the adoption of this amendment, a comprehensive amendment that has been prepared by the Prague Criminalistic Institute, the Pyrotechnic Service of the Police of the Czech Republic and other organisations mentioned in the section of the investigation, or the documentation of criminal activity. The amendment was prepared by the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with these institutions. He's in general agreement with them. I will then refer to the House document and ask you, fellow Members, to support such an important institution as the Prague Criminal Institute, and other institutions not to deprive you of the opportunity to carry out an expert activity that is often unique and unique in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u13	Thank you. Next, President Chvojka is enrolled in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I would like to briefly justify my amendment to House press number 72, which means the Government's bill on experts, expert offices and expert institutes. Before I justify my amendment, firstly, I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice and, secondly, the rapporteur, Helena Válková, for having handled the work that has been done with this law, and it has been a really difficult job, with honor. It is true what the Minister said in his introductory words that we have laws that govern this activity, but that they are outdated, essentially effective for more than 50 years, that is, yes, there is a real need to amend and modernise these things. However, I would like to put forward one amendment, which came from experts' initiative, on the initiative of experts, and the amendment aims, by analogy, to legislation similar to those of other professions, such as lawyers, notaries, executors and others, to ensure that, in the case of an expert activity by expert offices, this activity is carried out responsibly and professionally. In my opinion, the current wording of the Government's draft law permits, in the case of an expert activity through expert offices, the excessive ingence of persons who, unfortunately, are not experts, which would result in a threat to the proper performance of the expert activity. [[15.20 hours]] My amendment, which I will then apply to in the context of a detailed debate, of course, has three amendments. Point 1 provides that only experts should be the statutory body of the expert office, as is the case for example. At law firms. Point 2 provides that the sole object of the expert's activity should be an expert's activity, as is the case with law firms. This is the only way to ensure professionalism and avoid potential conflicts of interest. Otherwise, in my opinion, companies operating in completely unrelated fields could also be an expert at offices. As regards Amendment No 3, each expert should only carry out his activities in one form, i.e. in one expert office or separately. Otherwise, there could be situations where an expert would have been formally registered in more than one expert office and the necessary quality and professionalism would not have been achieved, in particular, in the performance of an expert activity. I will still sign up for the amendment in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u15	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr. Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been a forensic expert for, say, 15 years, expert forensic expert. And from my point of view, the current law is a complete problem. I am glad that it will change in some way, although I do not see the change in a completely positive direction, and perhaps the discussion will still have to be very deep. And I would like to draw attention to two aspects. I would like to draw attention to the role of expert judicial experts, which are declining; at least in the field of health there are fewer and, in fact, they have no interest in writing expert opinions. For one reason, let's say, financial compensation for an expert's opinion and all related to it, and then for the reason that constitutional expert's assessments are practically zero-rated and require relatively fundamental responsibility. That means, from my point of view, medical schools and faculty hospitals have no interest in writing expert opinions at all. And I'm an expert, because we're in the field where I'm an expert, two in the Republic, and there's none in Slovakia, so we're also writing opinions for the Slovak Republic, so I'm in the situation that the expert of the counterparty, if there's an expert of the counterparty, isn't an expert expert, but he's a physician in radiology, who's invited by the medical examiner as a consultant who doesn't have any exams, he's not qualified, he doesn't have the minimum that I've had to pass. And he's often professionally in a very complicated situation because, let's say, he's a person who doesn't have a methodology at all and the method doesn't have it in his workplace, and it's very problematic to assess it. I think it is necessary for us to look at this law very comprehensively and in detail, because it does not concern, it really does not concern only people with legal education, i.e. graduates of legal faculties, but it concerns a huge number of specialised forensic experts, expert forensic experts from various fields, and we must not forget them and we must think about them. And then it applies, at least in health care, to a number of institutions, hospitals and medical faculties, for which one time expert opinions were required. The number of expert reports is increasing. If I were to give you, and that's it, comparison, ten years ago, I did two to three reviews a year, last year over 20. The increase is really significant. I would like us to really think about this and review all the amendments very carefully at third reading, plus the opinion of the various expert groups dealing with expert opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u17	Thank you. The next one in the detailed debate wants to speak, Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u18	By your means, Mr President, my dear nametag, Mr War, of course, we have spent most of our time with two professions and specializations. This is both the valuation of property by experts in this field and both forensic psychiatry, psychology, medicine. Those were the ones I hope will then be satisfied with the resulting form. And I think I know what I'm talking about when I say that the most important thing is to motivate new young experts who would learn that expert craft, because otherwise it would really be a threat to paralyze this activity, without which quality justice in these complicated cases will not know what to do. On the other hand, this cannot be dealt with in the way that, after all, it has also been said here that we will leave the inadequate old arrangements of 1967 just to avoid being appalled by the experts, the older ones, the experienced ones, and they have not left. It just doesn't work like that. But, of course, we have a strong motivational component, or an instrument that I am not the Minister of Justice, I cannot talk about. However, it is, of course, the assumption of a functioning system that there will be a reward for motivation. Because for the hours and for the responsibility that the expert will now bear even if the insurance is mandatory, it is of course assumed that he will also be properly rewarded. And I absolutely think that without that, it's B - when you say A - standards, responsibilities, responsibilities, or even disciplinary, then of course it's necessary to have B - remuneration. Therefore, I would use this mainly to draw attention to it, and you might ask why this has not come into this comprehensive amendment, apart from the proposal adopted by the Constitutional Committee, which has been inserted into the system, as I have already said, under number 1479, so the most important will probably be then in the third vote on those other proposals which specify the last, final outcome after discussion in the Constitutional Committee. And as part of the clarification, as Mr Ondráček, to whom I thank him that he appreciated the work that was not little, but he sometimes works for a long time and the result is not what he would have imagined, so we will see how it will turn out in the third vote, just as he did in the case of some so-called. flies. So I would like to speak, these are three amendments, small ones, but obviously important to experts. The first one concerns the facts that may occur when an expert ceases to work and the insurer cannot terminate the compulsory insurance. So it is one sentence, when it is added in § 22 para. 5 that "the insurer may terminate compulsory insurance only for the reasons set out in the provisions of the Civil Code governing the insurance contract'. It's a declaration of what it already is, but it's called. tight. For the sake of legal certainty. Two other amendments inserted into the system under the numbers 2071 and 2091 already concern more substantial matters. One is once again declared what person is considered an expert. And then the offence clause is modified, and for the sake of clarity, we separate the offenses into a special provision. It is § 40 when a person pursuant to § 26 para. 1 where it is said who it is, the expert commits an offence - so seemingly a minor thing, however evidently significant to the experts, because they will be able to better focus on what would threaten them if they committed a breach of any obligations arising from the law. At the same time, there are still some legislative technical irregularities, which are also eliminated by the proposal. Finally, the last one concerns that we have retreated, and this requires some concession from the experts from the expert offices, who are now private expert institutes, who have pointed out that experts who carry out expert activities as employees, associates or members of the expert office, so it is unnecessary for them to be insured on a compulsory basis and separately. Because, of course, the expert office responds. [[15.30 hours]] And then another and I think it is even more interesting for them, originally in the text of the law it was also obliged to register the amount of contractual fees and for the Ministry of Justice corresponding to the obligation contained in the law to control them within a certain period of three years. In view of the great criticism, pointing out that these are very sensitive data, the possibility of escape, the possibility of abuse, the possibility that contractual rewards could become an instrument of unfair competition between experts - it is again more a presumption of guilt that it will escape, and that in this system someone will get to it: law enforcement authorities, the Ministry of Justice, so in the end this is deleted in one amendment and in the context of expert reports in Section 29 para. 3 is only under letter (i) an indication of the billed and confessed knowledgeable. It has already been crossed out "even if the contract fee has been agreed" and this corresponds to the removal of the entire paragraph 7 of Section 37 that once every three years the Ministry will review the amount of the determined remuneration and, where appropriate, adjust it to take account of the development of the amount of the remuneration. So all of this is being released. And I think that's everything. These were amendments, which I will then read with the numbers into the system, or I will repeat them more. Thank you. They're already loaded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u19	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. Any final words after the general debate? Mr. Secretary? [[No.]] The rapporteur? I don't see interest. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. [[Gesticulation of messengers. She was furious that he had entered into a general debate.]] I apologise to Mr Brázdil, who came forward with a point of fact, and thank you for taking her back so as not to bring me into procedural complications. I'm sorry. So there's a detailed debate. Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u20	Good afternoon again, colleagues. I hereby sign up for House Document No. 1869. It concerns an amendment to a comprehensive amendment prepared by the professor or under the press of Professor Válková and concerns the Prague Criminalistic Institute. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u21	Good afternoon, honourable Members. I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, and before I give the floor to my colleague Chvojka, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Lenka Kozlová from 15.15 to 16.30 hours from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Now a colleague of Chvojka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have already justified my amendment to this press in the general debate, and I would now like to formally submit to this amendment, which is registered under number 2113 in the context of the detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u23	I thank my colleague Chvojka. Now, Mr Jakub Michálek, in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare the amendment, which is based on House document 1764. It is a proposal that the Ministry of Justice has drawn up legislatively for my request after consulting the Constitutional Legal Committee. It concerns that the conclusion of the expert's opinion should include clear answers and that, in the event that no clear answers can be provided, the expert should state those facts which reduce the accuracy of the conclusion, so that those persons - in particular, I am concerned that persons who then interpret and use expert opinions, particularly judges, may make a decision in a qualified and reliable manner and, in the absence of any need to be found with absolute reliability, so that this information is available to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u25	I thank Mr Jakub Michálek. Now another in the debate is Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u26	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I am also going to formally sign up for the amendment - House document 2084. The proposal is duly justified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u27	I thank Mr Pavel Blažek. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, in a detailed debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u28	Thank you. I would like to rejoin the amendments that have been inserted into the system under 1629. That's where I said it was about the possibility of a deposition. The insurer will resign only for the reasons set out in the provisions of the Civil Code. Then it is Amendment 2071. There is a clarification and also that the agreed contractual remuneration will not have to be mentioned. Finally, the House's press 2091, where the provision in which the negotiations will be reworded and, in essence, the negotiations which are fulfilling the facts of the offence, is directly defined, so as to make it clear, understandable and better clear than in the law so far. And let me read the legislative technical amendments at the same time, but they are already on the Government's proposal in the wording of the amendments to the Constitutional Committee, which are contained in resolution 72/2. In particular, it goes there in Section 14 (2) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v) (v))) (v) (v)))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))) (v))) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v) (v))))))))))))))) (v)))))))) (v)) Finally, in the title of Section 29, the word "observatory" cancel. A legislative shortcut is introduced to record reports and should therefore be consistently used in the next text, which unfortunately was not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-002-007.u29	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková, for speaking in detail, and since I have no written application, I ask if anyone from the scene is applying. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Minister, after a detailed debate? It's not like that. The rapporteur? They also do not declare themselves in a detailed debate, and since we have no proposal that we can vote on, that is, to shorten the deadline for third reading to seven days, or not to be dealt with by the guarantee committee, I can end the second reading of this bill and point seven. We'll continue with point number
