ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-006-004.u1	4. The draft law amending the electoral laws, the local referendum law, the regional referendum law and the rules of procedure of the administrative / House press 137/5/ - returned by the Senate pursuant to § 97 para. 6 and 7 (so-called. Boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats/boats The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 137/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in the mail. I would remind you that this is a draft electoral law. The House cannot overrule the Senate, can only accept the text proposed by the Senate or may refer the Senate Bill again, in the original or amended version. If the House does not approve any of the proposed texts, the legislative process will be terminated. I welcome Senator Jiří Dienstbier among us. I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Please, Minister. Maybe wait a little longer if the House doesn't calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-006-004.u2	I'll try to scream it out. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to remind you very briefly of the Government's bill amending electoral laws, local and regional referendum laws and administrative rules. The Chamber of Deputies approved this bill on 14 September last year and was returned to the Senate. I would like to say that the amendments contained in the Senate resolution are, from my point of view, rather legislatively technical in nature, and the Ministry of the Interior agrees with them, so I would like to ask you to approve the law as it was returned to us by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-006-004.u3	Thank you, too. Now I ask Senator Jiří Dienstbier to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-006-004.u4	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, as has already been said here, the amendments adopted by the Senate are essentially of a minor nature. You could say that they are more or less of a legislative technical nature, although this may not be quite accurate, because they have a minor material impact, but it concerns such things as that for example. the electoral laws were from the House, respectively. originally proposed from the Ministry of Interior and Government to distinguish ballots and envelopes in colour, and this matter has not been completed e.g. in the law on elections to municipal councils. Then it relates to the effectiveness when, as standard under the Act on the Collection of Laws, the effectiveness should be fifteen days after its publication, it can only be shorter if there is an urgent general interest. He was evidently originally seen in the rush before municipal and senate elections, but they had already taken place, so there was no reason to do so. And for the same reason, for example, the Senate is proposing that a transitional provision be imposed on the Senate elections that have already been held. That means it's actually unapplicable. No other major changes or any other changes in principle are proposed by the Senate in this bill, and I therefore ask you to support the Senate version. As has already been said, this is a law under Art. 40, where the agreement of the two chambers of Parliament must be. If you give your consent, the law will be passed and the hearing may end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-006-004.u5	Thank you. I would now ask whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, wants to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate, which was the constitutionally-legal committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, if she is present. Yes, please. At the same time, I ask her to follow the debate with me and to record any amendments or other proposals. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-006-004.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The Senate proposal is only a minor legislative technical regulation. In any case, I recommend that you approve as it is presented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-23-ps2017-026-02-006-004.u7	Thank you and I am now asking whether the rapporteur of the next committee also wants to comment on the text proposed by the Senate - as the next committee, we have designated the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development - Mr Martin Kupka, whom I do not see at the moment, so I assume he does not want to, unless one of the Committees wants to represent him, which is probably not. So, in that case, I am opening up a debate and recall that amendments can only be submitted to the bill in the text in which the Senate was referred. At this point, I have no applications for debate. I originally wanted to sign up, but I think we can do without it, so if there's no one else reporting, I'm done with the debate. I note that the amendments have not been tabled, so we will proceed to the vote on the text proposed by the Senate. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending the electoral laws, according to House press 137/5, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 137/6.' [[Local referendum law, regional referendum law and administrative rules of procedure]] I hope we're ready. I can see the application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please log in with your cards again. When our numbers are settled, we will begin the vote. Looks like that could be all. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of approval in the Senate version. Who's against it? In the 45 vote, 163 Members and Members were put forward, for 128, against 30, 5 abstained. The motion was accepted. So I would say that the bill has been approved and so approved. Thank you, I'm done with this point. I thank the Senator, thank the Minister, thank the rapporteurs. We're going to move on to the last law that the Senate has passed, or the Senate has returned, and that's point five.
