ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u1	96. Members of Martin Kupka, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura, Jana Černochová and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 500/2004 Sb., Administrative Code, as amended / House print 375/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as the House's press 375/1. prosit have Mr Martin Kupka, Mr Martin Kupka, present the motion put forward by the appellants' representatives. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u2	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, as well as many of you, we are both concerned that the Czech Republic is putting a number of unexpected obstacles to all construction workers, but not only to builders, to all those who come into contact with the state. And instead of getting their binding opinions from the state within legal time limits, they often wait a few months for that. We come up with a proposal that amends the administrative rules so that citizens can be more confident for builders that they will receive their binding opinion within 30 calendar days. We often criticize across the political spectrum that flats are not built, that highways are not built, that railroads are not built, that many other substantial civil amenities are built, that situations, for example in the field of health, in the field of education, are complicated, because public institutions such as municipalities, cities, regions are trying to invest, but often prevent them from having problems on the part of the administrative order, on the part of authorities that do not issue their binding opinions on time. We come up with the fiction of a so-called binding consent opinion, a measure that says that if the administrative authority does not decide within a binding time limit, it is considered that the binding position is given positively and that the law in the area for which the binding opinion was to be established has been fulfilled. I'm going to try to give you a few specific examples of where this is going. Of course, the most common are those relating to the territorial and construction proceedings. I really know the cases of specific investors, such as kindergarten, which necessarily needs construction work. In January, the stavebník, the owner of the kindergarten, asks for a binding opinion from the zoning authority and waits. He waits a month, he waits two months, he waits three months, he waits four months, he doesn't take it anymore and he makes a motion or a complaint about the inaction of the administrative office. He gets the answer yes that he didn't really do the competent authority, but he's waiting on it. In the next two months, the binding position will finally be - it is positive - so it can only start at that moment a number of other phases of the construction procedure itself. Unfortunately, this points to the fact that the owner of the kindergarten wanted to open the modified facility for children in September, which, of course, does not have a chance to do under these circumstances. I mentioned this one particular example. They are undoubtedly more serious, at a time when one may be a medical facility, or there may be many years of delays at a time when such important buildings are such as motorways, first-class roads, or bypasses of cities and municipalities. The problem really counts in the fact that somewhere in the offices, for example, the binding position of the zoning authority hangs for too long. And of course, another huge economic and moral loss results from the fact that the citizen has no chance, and in this case neither the municipality, nor the city, nor any investor, have any confidence from the state when he actually gets it. [[15.10 hours]] What we are calling for is also a greater speed of building and other administrative proceedings, but at the same time a greater elemental certainty that the Czech state provides to people in the sense that they will know that if they follow the law, they will take step A, so they can look forward to the same responses from the state. There are many examples. We know that the state is able to really kneel on a citizen when one day it doesn't meet the legal deadline, but on the other hand when the state is going to pay back the same coin and meet, for example, a 30-day deadline, nothing really happens. And not only is nothing happening on the 31st day, nothing is happening on either 41st or 51st or 61st day, when the office should have already done and should have issued the relevant binding opinion of the zoning authority, for example. By the way, the administrative rules and other component laws make it clear that a binding opinion will be issued by the Office without delay, but within 30 days at most, in complex cases within 60 days. Without delay. So it definitely doesn't mean within five or six months. So we came up with a proposal, which is not a complete novelty in Czech legislation, we managed to enforce similar provisions into the listed series of constructions in the framework of the Act on Acceleration of Line Buildings, Act No. 416 last year, and that is where the fiction of the binding consent opinion already stands. At the same time, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that he is working with the fiction of a binding consent position, as at this time in the Legislative Council stopped the proposal for another amendment to Act No. 416, but complete recodification of building law. Here too, the government realizes that there is an urgent need to do something and to ensure that the state works by being able to manage its deadlines and thus not making life difficult for builders-citizens, it will not in fact delay further economic growth of the Czech Republic, because behind all the extended constructions and other procedures there are also significant financial and economic losses. So we are coming up with a proposal that will actually shorten the driving time, simplify people's lives, and actually bring more certainty. Greater certainty that if you act legally as a citizen, that the state will treat you equally and will also respect its legal deadlines. We do not prevent, for example, the fact that, in those difficult cases, the deadline is indeed extended to 60 days, just as we do not prevent the EIA's decision from being taken out of that fiction, so that it is fully consistent with our practice with what it considers to be an important European Union. There must be a way in this regard. We would like to ask you to support our proposal for a change in the administrative order, the benefits of which I have talked about. But I troufnout say that these are not actually just extra benefits, what we are suggesting is that the state should finally start acting the way he wants people to do, and as he asks him to fulfill the legal deadlines to obey the laws himself. And we offer a specific solution in the form of a fiction of a binding opinion. I'm going to add one more important point to those who are wondering if, by chance, we can cause some kind of problem, if this doesn't create a situation where it's waiting for the deadline to end. So we certainly did not prepare this proposal for the fiction of consent to be fulfilled, but for the authorities to ensure their work in such a way that they would be able to issue binding opinions in terms of time, and thus did not complicate the lives of people and the life of other public authorities. And what's at the same time important about this thing? It is not part of the change that, for example, territorial decisions are being made by fiction. That doesn't really include the proposal. It contains only the fiction of the consenting binding opinion, which is only a condition and the basis for issuing the territorial decision. Therefore, I believe that this does not mean any major risk to the Czech Republic, on the contrary, it is a step, as it is already shown in the case of the specific legislative standard in the case of the construction of line construction, that it already serves in the Czech legal order and really contributes to the fact that what the Czech Republic has long wanted to implement and implement in full compliance with the law, so that it can really and unnecessarily be implemented. In this regard, I ask that, when discussing this particular proposal, common sense prevails as much as possible in the House, a view of what the proposal is trying to deal with. Because if it sounds, and I dare say that in all the electoral programmes, perhaps we want to remove unnecessary bureaucracy, that we want a functional state, that we want it to be built faster, that the Czech Republic will not be able to make the 156th place next time from 192 countries monitored at the speed of the construction process, that it does not want to take an average of 246 days in the Czech Republic, when in other countries it may take 60 or even shorter periods. This is a concrete proposal, a concrete way to approach significantly better indicators in international comparison, and, above all, in those important specific areas, in transport, in the construction of public buildings, but also in private business, in private owners' intentions, in the plans of families to build, so that the situation really improves there, and all building procedures and other administrative procedures have accelerated. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask you once again to support this intention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u3	Well, thank you. In the meantime, I'll read the apologies before we go any further. Between 14.30 and 15.00, for reasons of work, Mrs Tatjan Malá apologises, and Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologises between 14.30 and 19.00 for health reasons. I therefore ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Zuzana Ožanová to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u4	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the submitted amendment to the Administrative Rules is intended to respond to delays in the institutions concerned and to non-compliance with deadlines when issuing binding opinions. According to the appellants, in today's legal practice, impossible or mutually incompatible conditions are laid down and administrative authorities are making delays. The proposed adjustment should introduce a fiction of a binding opinion. If the administrative authority does not issue a binding opinion within 30 days, the decision would not be subject to this binding opinion and the application is in accordance with the law on which the binding opinion is issued. A later binding opinion, if any, would not be taken into account. Further adjustments shall relate to supervisory and remedies and shall provide the fiction of the confirmation of the binding opinion of the institution concerned by its superior authority if the period for its confirmation or amendment expires in vain. The Administrative Code is a general procedural regulation governing the procedure of administrative authorities. However, the proposed regulation interferes with various areas of substantive administrative law which, for each section of the public administration, govern the authority of the institutions concerned to issue binding opinions for the purposes of a number of different administrative procedures. Any shortcomings in the substantive law or its application cannot be addressed by means of a change in procedural law and a general procedural regulation. Administrative law knows the Institute of Fiction of a positive or negative decision, but not as a general procedural institute in general procedural regulation, but only as a partial arrangement contained always in the relevant law governing the substantive jurisdiction of a particular administrative authority. In the same way, this means just a direct amendment of the various laws governing the authority of the institutions concerned to issue binding opinions, so it is necessary, where appropriate, to amend the fiction of a binding opinion or the fiction of non-compliance by a binding opinion. The binding opinions of the authorities concerned appear in a number of completely incomparable areas of public administration in which the authorities concerned exercise their competence to protect individual public interests, such as decisions on licensed trades, decisions on foreign trade in military material, decisions on granting consent to the activities of a private university, decisions on entitlement to provide child care services in a child group, decision on authorisation and others. [[15.20 hours]] An application for a binding opinion may have defects preventing proper assessment or even directly hindering the issue of an opinion. In such a case, the administrative authority shall be obliged to assist the defect to remove or call for the defect to be resolved and to set a reasonable time limit. However, the proposal does not count on this and there could be situations where the fiction of non-compliance with a binding opinion could also arise on the basis of an incomplete and even a call by the administrative authority for an incomplete request. Applicants could calculate this option and aim to avoid a binding opinion. The proposal provides for a fiction of non-compliance with the decision by a binding opinion only if the application for a binding opinion is submitted, but not if the binding opinion should be issued on the basis of a call by the administrative authority responsible for conducting the administrative procedure in which the decision is to be issued subject to a binding opinion. Both models are used in the legislation, with binding opinions provided by the applicant and submitted to the administrative authority as part of the request for a decision, and with binding opinions provided by the administrative authority conducting the proceedings itself. The proposal therefore envisages only one of these models without showing why. In accordance with the applicable legislation, the failure to act by administrative authorities can be defended within the framework of administrative justice. It can also be noted that maladministration can be prosecuted under Act No. 82/1998 Coll., on liability for damage caused in the exercise of public power by decision. The bill also contains in itself a number of partial shortcomings which would prevent its smooth practice. On the one hand, the application provides, in the event of a futile expiry of the time limit for the issue of a binding opinion, that the decision is not conditional upon a binding opinion, but at the same time provides that if the appeal is against such a binding opinion, the superior authority shall confirm it. However, if the decision is not to be subject to a binding position at all on the basis of fiction, no binding position will be given, not even fake, and therefore it does not make sense to assume that the appeal will be directed against the binding position, since nothing such can occur if it cannot be appealed against what does not exist. Nor does it make sense to exclude such a non-existent binding opinion of the review proceeding as what is not possible to examine from the nature of the case. The draft law does not address how the administrative authority responsible for issuing a decision subject to a binding opinion will be informed in a legally relevant manner that the authority concerned has not issued a binding opinion within a specified period and where, as a result, the non-compliance fiction has become a binding opinion. At its meeting on 8 February 2019, the Government discussed this draft law and adopted a disagreeable opinion on it. The Parliamentary Institute has also drawn up an opinion on the compatibility of the press with European Union law. 0375 concludes that the proposed regulation is incompatible with European Union law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u5	That was the rapporteur, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. I'll read two apologies. Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes until the end of the day, and Mr Patrik Nacher apologises from 15.30 for medical reasons. I am now opening up a general debate, where I also have Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, if you are interested in speaking in the general debate. I have three factual points here, but they will respond when... You have priority rights. [[Secretary Dostálová.]] However, the rapporteur also has priority rights... [[He prefers.]] So you are giving room to the Minister with priority rights, and then there will be factual remarks, because they respond to something in the general debate, which I have four, and then Mrs Ožanová. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u6	Mr President, colleagues, I would really like to speak on this subject. Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Kupek, because I am very pleased that we are dealing with building law across the political spectrum, and indeed there is a general consensus on the fiction of the consent of a binding opinion. However, it is, of course, a very complex institute, and it should really only apply to building law at this stage. That's why we're really doing our job, the 400-sixteen amendment is over, the last thing's going to be fine-tuned. I am really very worried that we should suddenly do the fiction of consent for everything, because it has already been rightly said here by the rapporteur, where it concerns child care, migration policy, health care. And I think that such a serious institute should actually apply to the building law, where what Mr Kupka said is simply absolutely true, the delay is of course great, but please let us leave it to the 41st, where it is communicated at the level of the Government's Legislative Council, and then it should not cause problems in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u7	Thank you. And I have four factual points here. Mr Leo Luzar, second Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, then Minister Dostálová, Mr Dominik Feri, will be the first to speak. So, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear government, dear translators, I have a slightly contradictory impression of what has been said here. On the one hand, we have lazy officials, from the other hand, legitimately demanding builders, builders, applicants for construction, who request comments within 30 days. But it's not really like that. It just doesn't have a one-sided culprit in the building process, like we're all looking for arguments to speed things up. The guilt is on both sides. And if we are talking about what the problem is in the context of delivery fiction, consent fiction, generally fixed approach to realization, then we also have to say that sometimes it can be abused, it has been said here, but from the other side it is often calculated that it is not just or that it will be used in another context. Let me give you an example. Most buildings - when someone is entering construction, competitions, mayors when entering, so within the framework of the contract with the contractor of the construction, they make deadlines. Sanction dates until they have to submit, do etc. Look at these contracts on purpose and you will find that there is no termination of the procedure, but the opening of the procedure as a control term for this construction. And what happens? There's an investor coming to the construction office, not an investor, but a construction contractor, and that's how he has a proposal in his files that he wants to give, the clerk opens it up, and the files are empty. But he has to initiate an administrative procedure. And at that point, the performer is simply a cover against the penalty on the part of the investor who might follow him. This is a common practice, which in this construction practice appears to be being abused by a certain administrative order, a certain administrative system to the fact that I'm not running out of time, so I'm just gonna help myself here in this style. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] That's when the deadline is extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u9	Another with a factual remark by the Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala. Please, Vice-President, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I've been listening to this law enforcement exercise here, which was supposed to explain why it couldn't be done, but it didn't convince me at all. Here there is a need to bring some political arguments that would justify the situation that is here today, and that is the situation that we do not want to accept, that the state is in a privileged position towards citizens, that the state authorities do not have to decide within some time limits, that they can push forward endlessly a number of approval processes without anything happening, while the citizen, when he does not meet any deadline, does not pay the second day after the deadline ends, does not do anything he has, so he is sanctioned. And as a citizen, I could also say that it's too much for me, that it's complicated, that I find it hard to navigate, that it's not easy for me to make decisions, that I have to go through a lot of difficult things... The exact same argument that is used here from the point of view of the state apparatus, which has infinitely more options than a citizen, I could use as a citizen. But the state won't allow this argument. [[15.30 hours]] So I say for the citizens - we also do not allow such an argument and we do not admit it. We want the conditions to be aligned, so that the state has clear deadlines, so that it clearly fulfills its obligations to decide when it has. And that's what the idea we came up with is the fiction of consent that forces the state authorities to act responsibly and to act in the way they should, and to act with respect for the citizen and for some deadlines that we set here. And the fact that there were a few examples that I recognise would not be solved in this way, they can be excluded from the law during further discussion, really say, in these particular cases, the fiction of consent cannot be applied because the process is too complicated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u11	Thank you. And thank you for keeping the time exactly. Another apology. Mr Aleš Juchelka apologises from 15:30 to 18:00 for work reasons. With a point of fact, Mr Dominik Feri will now speak and prepare herself with the priority right of the rapporteur, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I think this proposal will be supported rather in the right side of the hall, because it takes the state really more as a serviceman, as a servant, not as a superior, who just gives out the boomers and the citizen has just...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u13	Let me ask you to calm down so that the Member can speak. Who is not discussing something about this point, please discuss it in front of the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u14	Thank you. And the citizen's just supposed to wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u15	I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down, because the noise really doesn't end here. If the noise continues, I will have to appoint individual Members who are noisy. So I'm going to ask you to actually discuss things that don't apply to this point outside the boardroom. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u16	Thank you so much. This solution goes by a general standard, which means to intervene and amend the administrative order, is truly unconventional, but I think that this proposal is a specific, say, basis on which we can discuss broader issues such as the systematic infringement of administrative deadlines. And this proposal, as well as our proposal, which deals with the construction law and fiction within the framework of the construction and territorial proceedings, is simply an expression of the state's failure to comply with the rules. This was very well mentioned by Mr Kupka. And I would warn you very much, and I feel an atmosphere here that maybe the proposal should be rejected. I would really like to warn you about that, because how are we going to discuss this here? Somehow, the government's gonna present something, we're gonna run it fast, and that's it. No, there are questions ahead of us about speeding up administrative proceedings, building and territorial proceedings, and there are issues closely related to us, such as follow-up proceedings before administrative courts. It's all connected. And this proposal may be the basis on which we can discuss. We can extend the deadline, but I would very much warn against rejecting it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u17	Thank you for keeping the time, but I'd give you 30 seconds more, which I've been counting on, so thank you. Now, therefore, with priority right, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will speak and Mr Kupka will be prepared and then Mr Kolovratník will be served. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u18	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. Dominik beat me to it, hinted at what I was about to say. In the light of my intelligence report, I am making a motion to reject this bill. I would like to say a little more about what has been presented here. I would like to point out that this is indeed a general regulation - the administrative order. According to this work is done in many areas of public administration. And really, in a later proposal, we could list everything where it wouldn't be appropriate to use, your fiction, that would be a big problem. I can't imagine, for example, if I'm caring for a child, I'm just gonna miss a deadline one day, and I'm gonna have a problem with some binding position, for example, in this area. Military tech and stuff. I think it really should be, as it is in the Act on Acceleration of Construction, for special laws as a special provision, not in the general legislation. I understand that Mr. Fiala may want political arguments. I am asking you to make factual arguments rather than political arguments, and I believe that we should be more factual than political arguments with the amendment to this regulation. Dominik Feri said the state didn't follow the rules. It is a question of how to affect compliance with order deadlines, but it is not by making such a fiction of a binding position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u19	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, but your party supervisor, Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, is still factual. [[to Mr Kupka]] Vice-President, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond to Mrs Ožanová's speech. By your means, honourable Member, this depends on who thinks of politics. For me, politics isn't just a slap in the face of some ideological scheme, but for me, politics is quite relevant. But I've heard a very complicated interpretation here in the area of administrative law, why it can't be done. I'm interested in how we're going to change that, what we're going to do about it, and I understand that as a political position. And what we're going to do to make it work, and not just in the area of building law, but in other areas that you're talking about. Now that you mention migration, let me give you an example that I'm dealing with right now. Hospital directors complain that the state is unable to receive doctors and medical personnel from Ukraine quickly enough, but the state is unable to do so even in the deadlines it has set itself. What's going on? It's okay. And who's paying for that? Hospitals and our patients. So here's another problem. And that's what we're talking about. And what we're proposing here is a solution that will create room for the state to decide what it's supposed to be and make decisions on time and make decisions on a competent basis. Again, let's talk about cases where the state can't do it in a month where it can't even do it in two months. You can make an exception here. But we would not like this principle, which we consider important and which will really change the bureaucratic environment in the Czech Republic and change the state's approach to the citizen, to be limited only to building proceedings. We're about a lot more in this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u21	Thank you. Now I'll read the apology. Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes from 15.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Finally, Mr Kupka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u22	I will take the liberty of responding to the words of my colleague Ožanová. It said here: what are we going to do if the state misses, for example, a one-day deadline in the event of a child's fate being decided? I think that's even more serious if that happens than if it's just delaying the construction. But we are to prevent such delay from happening in the first place. And we in procedural law, and here you are right, are interfering with a process that affects universally many other component laws. But the reservation that appeared in the government's position is, according to the really famous legislation, completely out of control. Because if we interfere with the procedural rules, that, in turn, changes only the process and that cannot be considered an indirect amendment to the sub-laws. Then the House would have to ban any amendment to any procedural law. And we have a lot more of these in the Czech legal system. I really regard this observation as completely unfounded. But if we go back to what we want to change. After all, we are changing precisely the deadline, or the form of issuing so-called binding opinions. For them, the administrative rules set a time limit of 30 days and even say that the decision, the binding opinion, is to be delivered without delay, but no later than 30 days. It is certainly possible to talk about a 60 - day period in more complex examples. It's not complicated, and I'm sure we'll take it from here. But it is all about what the state itself determines for its decisions that, on the other hand, on the part of citizens, on the part of municipalities, regions, there is also some certainty on the part of entrepreneurs that decisions will be made. All the more so with the said decision about the child's fate. How can a state afford to miss a deadline in this case, for example? This is an even more serious example. And we want to make it clear with this change that if you stand here for your decisions, in this case even binding opinions, you set a time limit for it to be fulfilled, then you should respect it first. And it has clearly defined conditions. [[15.40 hours]] I stress once again that these are binding opinions which are only the basis for the final decision, for this meritorní in the area. There is no doubt the time for the Authority to continue to address the particular example if it is to make the right decision. But a 30-day deadline is simply a commitment that the state has taken on, and unfortunately it doesn't. If what you say is true, however, it would have to mean that Minister Dostálová will take the full recodification of the building right into her hand and throw it all away because she has no chance of succeeding with these comments at all. The whole thing would be completely unnecessary if the legal comments you mentioned should apply. Then we don't have a chance to deal absolutely with what the state is unable to handle within the time limits that it imposes on itself by law. It stores them to citizens, and it has to be equally binding to itself. That's what we're after. And it's not enough. The point is that people really have more legal certainty, they have at least a slightly more balanced position with regard to the state, so that those who are persecuted are not controlled, those who are besieged, but that they can speak responsibly to the State and have the right to expect an adequate answer. Appropriate, for example, in that the deadlines will be fulfilled. And the current practice, I want to point out, is not about missing a time limit in the order of one day, even in the case of building proceedings, but also in many other proceedings that are also going on, because there are both money and often the fates of people, so it often goes beyond the order of months, two months and three months. I stress once again that the fiction of consent and the proposal in the administrative order in this respect is legislatively absolutely correct. At the same time, I would like to point out once again that it is really about achieving that fiction does not have to be fulfilled at all, but that the authorities decide within the time limits set by the law. That's normal. In fact, we wouldn't have to accept any law for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u23	Now, for the general debate, the last application so far, and it is Mr Kolovratník. You have your word. Otherwise, I have no further application for debate. Ah. We do. Then Mr. Ferjenčík subsequently. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u24	Good afternoon, colleagues. Thank you for the floor in the debate that I listened carefully to. Very often, that law was mentioned. 416/2009, which we jointly amended here last year. You know, when I listen to the argument, the draft of the petitioners, I understand the idea. I agree with her. And I would like to remind you of my position as one of those who lectured here, or he was the head of a group of those Members last year of Law No. 416, so it was the ODS colleagues headed by Marek Benda who actually came up with this idea of putting it into the law, it was born on the Constitutional Legal Committee, it was actually incontrovertible for you, you said if we didn't put this thing there, we wouldn't support that law last year. And it did. And I'm glad for that. And today I want to thank you back for that. If I quote, it was § 2 para. 5 which introduced the fiction of the decision of the public authorities concerned and is therefore 60 days there. And I think this is a good example, a good experience, even though I've been briefing my colleagues at the Department of Transport today, the amendment has been effective since last September, it hasn't been used in practice yet, but maybe the answer is that the officials know there's something above them, it's the symbol, and that's why they prefer to decide because they're afraid not to decide. So I'm positive about this. But still, I'm skeptical at this point, maybe careful, and I'm sorry about the expression, but I'm a little worried that it's not like that in quotation marks, pouring out the bathtub and the baby, because you really want the whole administrative order here, as Zuzana Ožanová says, actually reform, rebuild the entire administrative order. And if I'm just gonna stick to that law again in line construction quotes, then those of you, Zbyněk Stanjura, who are more experienced than me, were here at the beginning, then look at how this law came into being. In 2009 there were problems with land purchases. Speculation. The Chamber of Deputies then adopted a law that said double in another key paragraph, giving people only double the price. And what did it do? Land purchases stopped that day. People just didn't want to sell the land. So sometime in 2013, 2014, it was already during the government, where the YES movement was also involved, we tried up to sixteen times. That was an interpretational problem. It was too much. So the third time we settled down, and it was like that from wall to wall on the eight times that we see today that it works in practice. And here I am really scared, and I say fair and square, I have not read the proposal in detail, I say that correctly, I will give my colleagues the opinion, but I fear that you, colleagues, are really not too radical and rather that we do not get into trouble. And if I listened to Klára Dostálová's statement, where the other one, as agreed, was the government amendment to Act No. 416 is currently working with other steps in the consent fiction, it wants to expand them gradually, so I would also be in charge of moderation here and go through some gradual steps and test them. I suppose, and I will be happy to support it myself, that when the law that I myself was looking forward to being here, let us believe that it will be as soon as possible, that we will not only bring it to the Economic Committee but also to the constitutionally legal committee and that, for example, these godly ideas, and now I mean it really well and honestly, we will work in it. But this revolutionary, and I'm gonna use that word radically, go into the entire administrative order, even if I understand you, and I like the philosophy, so I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to be against it, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u25	I now have one point of fact, which is Mr Martin Kupka. Mr. Ambassador, de facto. Then with priority rights... So the chairman of the MP's club is not interested, so then Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u26	I just have to pause over the fact that you consider a revolutionary or even radical step to be a proposal that only wants to achieve respect for legal deadlines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u27	So now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, for the general debate, will be prepared by Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to make a brief statement as to why I wouldn't support the proposal. And the answer is simple. That's because the citizen expects the state to decide quickly, that's true, I totally agree with the petitioners there. However, he also expects to decide in accordance with the law. And the moment the authorities automatically issue consent opinions even when those opinions are against the law, that is a huge problem. I understand the intention of speeding up the process, but it can't be at the expense of building a dollhouse next to your family house, for which they have received a consent binding opinion through the fiction of consent, through the fact that an official will deliberately miss the deadline. So that could happen, too. And citizens' rights, which may be limited by the construction, need to be protected. And we have to think about them, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u29	Mr Stanjura, President of ODS. So far, the last application to the general debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u30	I guess I'll just underline and repeat what my colleagues say. And for Martin Kolovratník, an honored colleague. What's revolutionary about it, what's radical about it? Or a colleague of Ferjenčík. So if the state wants a longer period of time in some kind of activity, let's take it. We're not defending the debate. But we want to settle the relationship between the state and the citizen. The state can do anything and the citizen can hardly do anything. Within the time limits. Who's stronger in this relationship? No doubt, stand still. What's revolutionary, radical, I don't know, what's brave, that we want the state to meet legal deadlines? That's all we want. If we wanted to radically shorten those legal deadlines, we could talk about whether it's good or bad, whether it's revolutionary or radical, whether it's feasible. We're under the pressure of the officials here. Okay, we've solved several listed buildings. But in every building procedure, there are months for binding opinions, almost every builder will tell you, even though by law it should be a binding position whether positive or negative. And as Martin Kupka has already said, that there's a fiction of consent somewhere, doesn't mean that the final administrative procedure will be positive for the applicant. It'll just come out in a specified, legal time. And that's it. So what are we afraid of? [[15.50 hours]] We all have a lot of talk here about how we need to simplify the state, reduce bureaucracy. And all we want is for the state to meet the time limits that it has in its laws. And all of a sudden, there's a problem. So whose interests are we defending? Those who want something from the state and pay taxes? Do they expect service and services for their money? Or the others? And I don't criticize specific officials at all. We also say that there are too many regulations, decisions, regulations, regulations. And that's also a way to simplify the steering and maybe speed it up. But we're not talking about acceleration, we're talking about upholding the law. And all of a sudden, I can't! Suddenly there's a problem. So imagine why I've got five days in my inspection report? Why don't I have 50 if it's difficult to verify. Five working days has a small businessman who has, for example, an external accountant! This seems normal to most of the Chamber of Deputies. And what happens if the businessman doesn't deliver for five days, a cruelly short period of time? Penalties! No mercy! And on the other hand, if the IRS does it for a year or two, it's cool. For three years, the tax office has the power to check e.g. income tax. Ten years to check the VAT. Here's five days. And we say, or you tell us, don't be crazy, you ODS, don't be crazy! What's gonna happen? So let's demand from the state what we want from the citizen! That's the only thing. We are ready to debate those deadlines for each type of procedure. We're ready for this. But don't throw it under the table and wait for the partial solution to come in the building process. And then the arguments can be exactly the same. Martin Kupka said it in his performance. So I'm asking you to let this go into the next reading so you can work with us on this, because that is clearly in favour of the citizens. And especially those active who communicate more often with the authorities and need decisions. And maybe just because of what Martin Kolovratník said, maybe because the fiction with consent is already, suddenly it works with listed transport buildings. And it's not said that all opinions are positive, it's a completely different story. But they're on time. And whoever's preparing the building can count on it. And he knows that when he applies, he has a binding opinion within 60 days. And it's not like he's gonna wait a year, sometimes a year and a half. After all, we all know these cases from the Economic Committee, which we have ever sat there with specific buildings. And it's not a single case. So what are we afraid of? Whose interests, then, will we defend? We're not afraid of it, we want a perfectly normal thing. A perfectly normal thing for the state to respect the deadlines that we legislators have imposed on him in the law. The officials didn't make that up. That was us, the MPs and the senators. And it doesn't matter in which term. And now, if we're going to say that if he doesn't do it, then that's what we're afraid of. Or some of us are afraid of it. And I want to know the reason. What are we afraid of? What are we afraid of? What's the automaton for issuing positive opinions? So either the time is really short, in a specific agenda, so let's have fun not being there for 30 days, but 90, because 30 is really short. But let everyone know for sure, so he knows when he'll get his opinion! He doesn't have the confidence today. Worse still, no harm will come to him who doesn't follow it. Unlike a citizen, a businessman, a businessman. Three days, six days, if they pay late income tax or file a late tax return, it's already a mess. And we're afraid to give the same rights to citizens. So try to tell me, you who are against, why? Why are you against it? Why don't you want to increase citizens' rights? Why are you not in favour of the state fulfilling the deadlines it has? That's a simple question. And I haven't heard the answer yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u31	Now a factual point, and it is Mr Leo Luzar, and then in the general debate, Mr Kupka will be prepared for the plaintiff. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There were questions. Why? Why, why? But the clerk is not alone in himself. He's got his superiors. And if that clerk isn't able to do something in 30 days that the law tells him to do, his supervisor is supposed to ask, "Why didn't you do it? Do you have objective reasons? Subjective reasons? Or are you just lazy? And if his superior officer doesn't do that, if we don't ask, or if those who ask, ask, why, then, of course, do we have to deal with something by law? And the risks that are here - yes, they can accelerate, but there are risks. And we can't just flush this. But I keep asking, and when it came down to why, I ask, "How's it going at the town halls, at the centers where the building officials sit here, how's their work? Is there a supervisor who checks that the clerk's compliance with the legal deadlines and affects him? Or does he leave it that way? And then let's ask where the responsibility is. Let us ask where it is the responsibility of the secretaries of the authorities for how officials work in offices! That doesn't ring a bell. But it is only pointed out that all officials are bad, and that is why we need to introduce fiction. And I don't like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u33	Now one more factual one - I apologise, Mr Probate - and this is Mr Jakub Michálek. Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u34	Thank you for the floor. I agree with the idea that there is a need for compliance with the time limits in the building procedure. I think we all agree with that. There was a specific question, so I'll answer it for us. We took over the capital city of Prague in the form that there was no time limit at the construction offices to check by the City Council against the city parts. Therefore, an effective control system must be set up. We have commissioned a company, an ICT operator, to set a system that will record deadlines for all the city districts, so that we know how long these construction procedures are going to last, and if there are any delays, then the administrative authority, which is the City Council of Prague, will follow the administrative rules and take action against inactivity. When it comes to the fiction of consent, I think it's a less appropriate solution than to deal with the existing tools, because there are corrupt risks that someone can do so. Leave it on the table until the approval fiction is made, and I don't think we want that either. So we're trying to solve this under existing instruments, and only if it doesn't work out with existing instruments, then change the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u35	Now, Mr Martin Kupka for the plaintiff, so far the last application. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u36	I will try to answer Mr. Ferjenčík's particular example. Well, of course we want the state to make the right decision. That's what people have the right to do. But that also includes making the right decision and the right decision on time, because there are deadlines from that. He wants the same thing to happen to that citizen at all times he's given him. And in this case, the fiction of consent, plus, it's just an input basis, a condition for another process of building procedure or any other procedure. I think in this case, it would just be a mistake if the house were to be built there, even if it had a fictional statement. It's only a condition, a basis for further decision-making. It's not said that the house is supposed to grow there when the binding position of fiction comes true. No one's saying that, and so are the less proponents of the law. I will respond to the words of my colleague Luzar. No one mentioned the officials here, and no one blamed them for perhaps doing a priori wrong. It was you, through the President, who mentioned it. It's about setting up the system and really making all these processes work the way they do in other states around us. We're not an island. We do, so now it almost looks like we're more in this area if we look at the results of the length of the administrative procedure. Everywhere else, it's going really much faster. Maybe because there are real tools to get the entire bureaucratic apparatus to follow its own responsibilities consistently. And here I really mean the process rather than the result of the particular official, who is really often swamped by an incredible number of submissions, but which have imposed on him Czech laws, which are unnecessary many, and the various conditions that we have invented here in the Chamber of Deputies, and often really useless. What we're supposed to do at this point is say, and here it has been said repeatedly: it must be the same meter for a citizen as it is for a state. It can't be that he's so high up above people that other standards will just apply to him, and that even if he doesn't meet the standards he's laid down, then nothing really happens. Respecting the laws is supposed to be normal and must apply to the state. And the legal term, that is in the law! He's in all those compound laws. You can't just wave your hand and pretend that nothing's really going on when, as the previous post said, some of the authorities don't do it. [[16.00 hours]] Yes, some authorities have a whole series of slippages, limping about horse lengths beyond their deadlines, but the more we should not accept it and we should also in this way, this particular proposal, which in case of risks we are able to eliminate, we are certainly able to do that we will remove the EIA process from it. But in principle it is about creating more equal conditions, making the Czech Republic respect the deadlines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u37	And now I do not see any more applications for the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. Now I'm going to ask if there's any interest in the final words. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, rapporteur - she is not interested. The plaintiff? He's not interested anymore. So now we're going to consider the proposal for... Sorry, we have a motion to dismiss, but I'll read the apologies before we vote. So Mr Dolínek apologizes because of the unplanned extension of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Czech Agricultural University from the entire day of the meeting. Mrs Jana Levová also apologizes 20. 6. for the whole day and for today's meeting from 15.45 pm to the end of the day. In both cases, for health reasons. And Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes on 19. 6. between 15.45 and 18.00 for personal reasons. So I am now going to go on and call the Members to the Chamber, as I have noted a proposal from the rapporteur, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, to reject the proposal that we are now going to vote on. I have an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please log in with your voting cards again. [[Messenger. The Faltynek requests the assembly of Members.]] I've already begun, Mr President, about twice, but I'll do it again. You can only hear it in the lobby. I've got two more to go. And we will wait until we are sure that Members have the opportunity to come, because there has been a delay between the last vote and what will follow. I feel like there's already enough of us in the O.R., I can see it in the Kvora. So I'm going to repeat once again what we're going to vote on. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová proposes the rejection of the proposal. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes rejection, press the button and raise your hand. In the 992 vote, 153 Members voted in favour of dismissing 87 against 54. The motion for refusal has been accepted and this discussion of this press is closed. And I'm handing over the proceedings for this meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-19-ps2017-030-10-009-096.u38	There's been a change. Good afternoon. So the next point is this point right over here.
