ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u1	247. Annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2017 /German press 143/ This House Press discussed the committee whose resolution was delivered as House Press 143/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the electoral committee, Mr Petr Dolínek, inform us of the discussion on the committee, present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Ministers, Minister, Dear Colleagues. Therefore, following my previous annual report, which we discussed in this morning and in the previous days, I would like to present a report on 2017. 2017 was a successful and challenging year for Czech TV. This was an election year in which the government crisis was actually accompanied by public media activities for a number of months, while Czech television had to maintain an impartial view of internal politics, which is certainly always difficult for public media to succeed. I believe that, in the same way as the report presented by the Czech Television Council, the Czech Television succeeded in this challenging test and the internal policy development in the Czech Republic that year managed to map the Czech Television quite well, communicate it to the public, while not slipping into comments that no longer belong to the public service media. [[unintelligible]] I am also pleased that, as you have read in the report, the credibility of Czech television in the given year was at a high level in the current, in the figures of the given year, most of the public, i.e. 70,5 percent of the audience, agreed that Czech television was credible. This is confirmed by the fact that for two thirds of viewers according to statistics and numbers, events in 2017 were the most credible news session. I am stressing the events with the great U, so that we know that we are talking about one particular show, which is one of the best results since the beginning of such measured research, which dates back to 2013. In international comparison, the events in the research of the credibility of news relations were placed in third place, e.g. before the BBC News, or by more than 30 percentage points they did better than sessions in neighbouring countries, e.g. in Poland, or even against Slovak news RTV. Czech television as a whole reached a share of the audience in the 15+ group in the given year, so-called share, 29,2 %. The ČT1 station reached a full-day share of the ratings of 15.34 %. She was the second most watched main program in the Czech Republic. And there's been a slight decline year-on-year, which needs to be acknowledged by numbers. The program ČT2 basically repeated the performances from 2016, and what is delightful is still a very successful program ČT24 and ČT sport in European comparison. There's no need to talk about D. We know that long-term D is the best project of a given type within public media within Europe. The D is the highest percentage of traceability compared to other countries. I believe that this annual report has nothing relevant in it to call into question the conclusions in the case of the activities of Czech Television, the conclusions of the Council that have been presented to us. Public television performs tasks under the Czech Television Act and therefore the Committee recommended it for approval. At its 10th meeting on 27 September 2018, the Election Committee addressed the House press 143 and recommended the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the Annual Report on the activities of Czech Television in 2017 according to House press 143." Of course, I could also be prepared to talk about individual programmes in the field of documents, sports, but also the creation of Czech television itself. However, I think that everyone has the report at their disposal, and I will not be dedicated to individual programmes. However, in case of interest, I am prepared for discussion and we can also look at some areas in more detail. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to an interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u3	Thank you. That was the opening word. And I am launching a general debate to which Mr Valenta is currently in office. By the time he gets to the microphone, I'll let you know that Mr. Strýček and Mr. Ratiborský are canceling their apology. Now, therefore, Mr Valenta in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am telling the rapporteur that the debate will really be interesting. And I'll be glad if he'll be involved in it in his own way. Ladies and gentlemen. But let me also make some relevant comments on Czech Television's management in 2017. I promise you that I will speak only on the topic, at the beginning of the 2017 business and at the end I will mention the activities of Czech Television in the same year, because, as you all know, the discussion is merged.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u5	Member, I must correct you, there is no merged debate on these points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u6	Okay, okay. I'm gonna try to fix it in some way, make it work. The duplicate things that have already appeared in connection with the 2016 reports I have tried to cross out in my next performance, so that I will not burden you with it, because my performance will not be very short. The audit for 2017 was prepared by Ernst & Young and the auditor Magdalena Soucek for Czech Television. I do not want to criticise the results of this audit report, I do not have enough input information, but unfortunately for me it contains, and this already in its introduction, some interesting to suspiciously incomprehensible neckline formulation, which, in my opinion, have a significant ambition already at the very beginning of the material to relativize possible inadequacies in the management and, consequently, in the activities of Czech Television in 2017. In fact, if these possible iniquities were brought to the surface over time, it can be quite easily developed from the responsibility for the report being processed. For your information, ladies and gentlemen, I can set a specific example when I quote from this audit. "Our aim is to obtain reasonable assurance that the accounts as a whole do not contain a significant error caused by fraud or error." End of quote. So one might ask: What is meant by the word or by the phrase "significant wrongness "? So the insignificant error is in order and is it already outside the scope of this audit? What, then, is the insignificant wrongness? And another very interesting statement and relatively unintelligible design. Now, please listen very carefully. "A reasonable degree of certainty is a high degree of uncertainty. However, it is not a guarantee that the audit will reveal any significant material incorrectness that exists. Incorrectities may arise as a result of fraud or errors and may be considered significant if it can be reasonably assumed that, individually or in summary, they could affect the economic decisions taken by users of the financial statements on its basis.' End of quote. Personally from this sentence after its several readings and careful analysis I import that there is simply no guarantee of revealing significant problems in the management of Czech Television through audit. I ask, then is there any point in doing such an expensively paid audit at all? [[16.40 hours]] And now I come to see why I'm actually saying this here, because I don't really care about that external audit. But in the long run, I am especially concerned with the comprehensive quality and scope of the entire audit of the Czech TV and, of course, the activities. But even with such a strange opening word, the auditor can be illustrated very well together. Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Television's own control mechanisms, namely the work of the Internal Audit Service together with the external audit results, really cannot fully illuminate the public's required legitimacy of public media management. Please, nicely - I hear someone here saying "we're in business" to me, but as I've submitted, activities and management are very closely linked, for example, with the licence fee, which now amounts to CZK 135, so 90 percent goes to the activities of Czech Television, so you can certainly get the link from my performance and from this information. The control activity of the Czech Television Council, which, according to the Czech Television Act, is responsible to the House, which can withdraw it for the reasons given by law, is also in my opinion a completely inadequate and hard to believe fact that its activities and rewards are still paid to members from the budget of the Czech Television, the mandatory transparency before its dealers does not record at all. Why are we still defending ourselves in this regard, under various pretexts, to legally anchor the possibility of the SAO controlling Czech television? The relevant Supreme Audit Office Act is now on our table, so there is a chance again, and it is completely indifferent in this regard whether it will be presented by the pirát or by someone completely different. But why not also by law strengthen the control activities of the said Council of Czech Television? Czech Television itself is resisting this, with the fact that the position of CEO would then be useless. However, many media experts fully confirm my opinion when they claim that the Czech Television Council does not have sufficient legal powers, has no legal personality, lives on the money of Czech Television, and therefore cannot afford to produce the necessary analyses without their input. We can therefore only check today whether the budget has been respected in rough terms. However, some more detailed cases from the work of Czech Television show something stale, which I recorded in a press interview with Martin Komárek, former President of the House's Election Committee. It is simply not possible to check transparently now. And what was Mr Komárek's media claim? It is said that TV workers take television technology and get paid as externists, so employees and externalists are paid twice while still using the Czech Television technology. They say it's conjecture, but it's based on experience. But however it is, it is not possible to verify this in today's condition of poor quality and incomplete control of Czech television. Not transparency and various suspicions of inhospitability on Czech television do not really please me. On the other hand, I am glad, at least for the concessionaire, that according to the audit result and the words of the Director General - I quote now - "Czech Television has maintained its status financially stable and healthy organisation with a relevant amount of available resources, zero debts and the ability to meet all its obligations in time". For this statement I am very happy for all dealers, or at other times and elsewhere, the medialized considerations of the management of Czech Television about increasing licence fees are fortunately past. I believe that in 2018 neither the situation nor the position of the Director-General had changed significantly, nor could it have, in fact, been paid for his good work within 2.5 miles. CZK and also his salary grew from 230 thousand to 242 thousand crowns a month. I hope, therefore, that it also does not count on paying the licence fee for computers, tablets or mobile phones, as mentioned in some of its contradictions at the meeting of the electoral committee mentioned by the Director General Dvořák. Why raise and continue to charge when Czech Television is financially stable? On the Czech Television website, however, we can find a statement that the problem of financing Czech Television is not solved today. Is the Director-General telling the truth that Czech Television is a stable healthy organization, as I said, with the relevant amount of available resources, or the official website of Czech Television, which still wants to address the financing of Czech Television? Another cardinal problem, and now I may partially repeat myself from previous performances to the activities of Czech Television, lies in the impossibility of determining the salary of their most favored moderators and editors. The citizens' public thus continue to resonate with names such as Mr Moravec or Mrs Fridrichová and some others. Members, senators, prosecutors or judges have been figuratively stripped into shorts in this sense long ago, but salaries on Czech television, against the statements of some courts, are still classified. Sometimes, in this sense, something flashes in this sense, for example, when Mrs. Drtinová recently escaped at a meeting in Pilsen, that as a former host of the Events she took 57,000 crowns on Czech television in 2013, but such piece and hard to verify information is really not enough for our citizens. At the same time, I would like to refute suspicions spread by some of the Czech TV protectionist media, which, following my request for the necessary transparency of the salaries of key employees of Czech television, which I had previously established, accused me of some kind of socialist egalitarian resentment. Please, this is not really the case, because if this were the case, I would have to mention, for example, first of all, the huge real estate of Mr. CEO of Czech Television, which is only 100 miles ago in Prague. koruna, as some media report. But I really don't care. What really matters to me is the management of the public media. Indeed, the 6.5 billion. CZK in the budget of Czech Television is not a negligible sum, for commercial TV NOVA manages only half the amount. In another illustration of not always quite good I could also use some interesting information from the website Watcher of the State, which records for two years its activities for your interest already around 2 miles. contracts with a total value of around 8bills. Crowns. As far as Czech Television itself is concerned, since the end of 2016, there have been 25 contracts allegedly containing such serious shortcomings contrary to the law that they are very likely invalid, and 274 other contracts suffering from serious shortcomings. Administrators of this website electronically refer, in full detail, to 1 902, that is 13.5% of Czech TV's contracts with companies linked to politicians. And that's very alarming. And these contracts are worth a total of 7 billion. CZK, which amounts to 38 per cent of the funds provided from all contracts concluded. And if any of you want to give specific examples, I can give Medea, for example, 789 contracts for 290 miles. CZK, person Jaroslav Tvrdík or Jaromír Soukup, whom we can now also consider as a policy, or, for example, Bison+Rose, three contracts for 17 million. Kroner, person of Miloš Růžička. For example of non-drying moneyheads towards people long-term connected with Czech television, i.e. event. clientelism, can be indicated by the companies production of Třeštíková, s. r. o., nine contracts for 20 million. CZK, person Helena Třeštíková, or for example Czech News Center, a. s., 133 contracts for 25 million. Kroner, person Libuše Šmuclerová. You just have to really look at the site and you will find others. However, as a seed bead, I would like to mention the Czech Television Treaty of September 2016 with the Charter 77 Foundation, for which it is not possible to trace its amount, and the confidentiality of its value is possible only in justified cases. But here it should be a contract for work in the context of recreational, cultural and sporting services, so I wonder why this is so. Perhaps something could also tell us that, as a member of the statutory body, Jiří Pospíšil, the current Chairman of the TOP 09, or as a member of the arbitration board of Mrs Marie Kousalíková of the ODS was led here during the decisive period. In fact, at the end of my speech, I would like to ask Prime Minister Babiš whether it is really true that he has recommended to his club that ANO Members support the approval of all reports, namely the activities and management of Czech Television, without distinction. Despite the fact that in 2017 he himself publicly described Czech Television editors as corrupt trash that works against some on order. Now that we are finally discussing the report on the activities of Czech Television from 2017, has it really stopped bothering him? Strange thinking. [[16.50 hours]] And he doesn't mind, for example, the case of the last time that Czech Television downloaded a report from social networks about alleged intimidation of pupils at the Secondary Industrial School in Pilsen prior to his visit? Teachers were told to threaten their students with problems at graduation if they asked about the case of the Tea Nest. The student who said so, however, only read this with someone on Facebook, which the editor of Czech Television edited from the report according to the school's statement. Industrial company on Czech TV intends to file a lawsuit. Even this time you don't mind, Mr. absent Prime Minister? So what else do you think of the performance by editor Hynek, who Witowská you as Prime Minister three times during the recent "Events and Comments," but as former Prime Minister, for her grave silence? Why do you think he's having such an opinional highshow again? I therefore mean Prime Minister Babiš regarding the approach to the functioning of Czech Television. Isn't it too much of his fundamental opinions? Each country's prime minister should stand by his word, even if it is currently unpopular for someone, and not be advised by PR managers in this regard, or perhaps even by some lobbyists. In the opinion of some commentators, the Prime Minister of Czech Television has either made a constructive agreement with the Czech Television for reconciliation, and others fear, as the devil, the cross of anti-Babiš demonstrations, which could cause people who benefit from television nepotism, clientelism and protectionism. I also hope that the Prime Minister has read the comments of the former director of Slovak television Radim Hreha, whom he has mediated at his address. The Hreha in it says that the Czech Prime Minister is probably convinced that the voters of YES do not mind the broadcast of Czech television for the havlist minority, which must be financed by all dealers. He also added that he thinks that Czech television with its declining public confidence is of no importance to him. But so much for my commentary on the fundamental transformation of the Prime Minister's views. It is interesting in this Hrehův, however, that the information monopoly of multinational lobbyists carried out by mainstream media, i.e. also by Czech television, creating a fictional picture of reality, is over with breath. Personally, I would very much like this, and I would very much like it especially to our Czech TV and its dealers. This is mainly due to the free and independent Internet, so we must now work together to ensure that some of the filutites do not drop this alternative channel of information under various pretexts, strangle it, and some of the resources did not even want to be banned there. In particular, thanks to the independent Internet, independent journalism can also work, which instead of supporting and implementing Czech Television, so it often goes in the opposite direction while at the same time accusing opinion opponents of seeking political domination over this public media, although this is quite impossible. People on Czech Television or some others effectively connected with Czech Television know this very well. The management of Czech television is so indifferent that it is often completely justified, supported and adequately criticized not only from the Chamber of Deputies but also from places located on the social map of the Czech Republic elsewhere. They have a sense of inviolability and infallibility. No wonder. The preservation of her condition has been more effectively supported for many years by a tendency to some political entities or their protagonists. However, I will once again incorporate into my performance, as I normally do, the opinion of someone funded and erudized, not only from the official statistics and statements of Czech Television, as the rapporteur did, but also from the reactions of thousands of disgruntled viewers. Thus, in 2017 the director and screenwriter Stanislav Vaněk, who worked on Czech Television in the field of music and was also the director of the Zlatá Praha festival, Media said that on contemporary Czech television he appreciated primarily its mission or professional form of PR, but - and I quote again - he added that he did not like how Czech television is distant from this mission, he liked the form of PR, but the content rarely corresponds to the real thing. And he continued that organized Czech TV has never been so inconspicuous and inefficient. In my opinion, this brief characteristic of Czech television is fully descriptive. Now I would like to present you with one example for all how efficiently Czech TV is managing, how it can be clientically linked to some subjects and also how the Czech Television Council is a fully dysfunctional body with control powers today. Mrs. Jitka Straková from Prague 8 contacted me already in 2015, when approving the report on the management of Czech Television for this year, i.e. 2015. She told me that the CEO of Czech Television is in violation of Act No. 348/2005 Coll., on radio and television charges, when it did not respond to its warning that there was an entity that has not paid television fees for many years, at least for nineteen television receivers at its two hotels. The Supervisory Commission of the Czech Television Council closed this case in 2015, with the complainant presenting false evidence, and the director of Czech Television, or one of their directors, Mr Cimirot, even claimed that the whole problem lies with the complainant himself. Now, keep listening. In 2016, the complainant sent a personal letter to all members of the Czech Television Council with evidence, no one answered, and she herself spoke to this in person at the board meeting, again unsuccessfully. Members of the Czech Television Council even mistaken the Czech Television Act with the Radio and Television Charges Act and so on. Following the exhaustion of all non-criminal possibilities for redress in the interests of dealers, including suspicion of fraud, the complainant referred in July 2017 to law enforcement authorities. 2. 8. 2017 criminal proceedings were initiated on suspicion of committing a tax-abort crime and similar compulsory payments. A year later, August 30, 2018, which means last year, the notifier was informed that the investigation had been terminated and that an action had been brought in court at the same time. Two natural persons and one legal person were charged. Now hold on, ladies and gentlemen. On the basis of this notice, Czech television has joined as damaged with a proposal to issue unwarranted enrichment and asks the court to impose an obligation to compensate for the damage in money of CZK 827 030. And even this simple information had to be recovered from Czech Television under the Free Access to Information Act. But what does it all mean? A. The Director-General did not deal with proper care and ignored reasonable suspicions. For your interest and photos of TV receivers at these hotels were available. B. The Council of Czech Television subsequently proved to be a completely dysfunctional body, fully loyal to the Director-General, because the evidence submitted by the non-paying entities was clearly false and this was enough to reject the complaint. C. Česká televize thus knowingly and long-termly by its inactivity, I underline this, causing damage, and the Director General has not filed a criminal complaint. And that's what the entire legal department has at its disposal. The Supervisory Commission of the Czech Television Council concluded not on the basis of the evidence submitted, but on the basis of what the Czech Television employees themselves told it. And for the last time - D. engineer Jitka Straková thus fulfilled her civic duty and will probably save almost CZK 900 000 for Czech TV, while she did not receive any thanks, nor apologies for the lie, when the director of Czech Television, as I said, Mr. Cimirot, falsely accused her of lying and claimed that the defendants paid properly. Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the very conclusion of my performance. Recently, in the context of some unnatural self-defense reactions, some of the Czech Television is beginning to resent the fact that the House's law has imposed discussion and approval of the annual reports of Czech Television, and they would prefer to remove this authority, even in the street way. For the last time, colleagues from the pirate party who feel like fish in the water in front of the Czech TV cameras, with the very obvious cooperation of some editors. However, this comfort is not granted to many subjects and their representatives. Although the Czech Television Code clearly states in Article 6 that the moderators of the Czech Television discussion programmes are obliged to maintain impartiality, and the viewer should not be able to see from their appearance on the show what position they have on the issue or debater, this is really happening very rarely. [[17,00 hours]] Attacks on opinions that are generated outside the television mainstream are indisputable in some programmes, and society is already starting to rebel strongly against this approach, wrongly referred to as public policy. And we as Members are here to reflect the public's voice and act by law. Unfortunately, some will always be intimidated - for he might also be useful on the screen of Czech Television, wouldn't he? What do you think about, for example, the recent warning letter from the Director-General to Members that he filed a criminal complaint against an anonymous perpetrator for harming foreign rights? The alleged perpetrator in quotation marks was supposed to distribute a document in the House calling for rejection of reports, on the basis of alleged false accusations. So be it, the director has the right. But I have not seen this document, as have many of my colleagues. Let's ask, isn't this more about the form of some other psychological pressure on the power of the legislature? However, on the other hand, we could also record the criminal notification for example for a citizen who, on the contrary, filed it with the CEO for spending 68 miles on Czech television according to his version. CZK for realized transport without a tender in 2018. For example, Hospodářské noviny has a copy of this criminal notice. But what we can add to this state of weird threats, unfortunately from both sides, is that we must highlight the critical voice of the legislator towards Czech television. This voice is completely in place and in order. Members must always have a strong voice in constitutional parliamentary democracy, and they must have some influence over the Czech Television Council and the approval of annual reports on the optimal functioning of the public media. Its objectivity, impartiality and independence, as well as naturally clean and transparent management, are paid for by citizens of the television system. Any pressure, and I am thinking in particular of the pressure on the House's decision-making sovereignty, wherever and organised by anyone, must be radically rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally register a massive number of complaints about the objectivity and balance of the activities of Czech Television, especially in the field of publicity and news, where this activity is always closely linked to the management itself, which I mentioned here a moment ago, including the management in 2017, when, for example, I mentioned here, 135 crowns of the licence fee were full of 92 crowns for the production of broadcasting content. I also keep a strong escalation of vulgarity or, for example, sexual oblongness on the Czech TV screens, at the expense of authorial invention and decency. Therefore, I also suggest to you, esteemed colleagues, that the annual reports on the management and activities of Czech Television for 2017 are not approved by both of them, or they can often hide their opposite content in these reports. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u7	I also thank you, and before I give the floor to Mr Kobza, who is registered with a factual remark, I will give you some information. Mrs Krutáková withdraws her apology for the negotiations. Mrs Šlechtová extends her apology from 16.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Kupka also apologises to us for 1645 pm until the end of the day for working reasons, and Mrs Levová apologises for today's meeting between 17 and 19 pm for working reasons. And now, please, Mr Kobza, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to the introductory word, because there have been a number of things that I find difficult to identify with. It said here that we must not jeopardize the independence of Czech television. But we need objective public television, because we have quite a lot of independent media here. They are all alternative media, but the Czech TV should be objective. And how are we supposed to view as objective television, which, in 2017, either ignored us or ostracized us, which sewed up propaganda against the SPD directly until our movement exceeded 5% in preferences? How are we supposed to view it as objective? It's about how amazing Channel déčko is. I have a little daughter, I've been watching déčko with her for quite a long time, and I have to say, I've been horrified to see how much subliminal information not only contains Planet Yo, or Reporter, but also in cartoons where the pet just tells each other, you don't have to do what you don't want to do, you don't have to force yourself into something you don't want to do. This is an upbringing for children not to follow their responsibilities, not to accept their responsibilities. So we can't consider this purely a children's channel. It's the psychological washing machine of the most vulnerable, the smallest children. And I will certainly not raise my hand to support the report on the activities of Czech Television in 2017. I'll come up with a question of management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u9	Time, Mr. Ambassador! Thank you. Now, with Mrs Miroslava Němcová's factual remark, then Mrs Valachová is signed up and I have registered Mr Martínek in the debate. Or de facto? [[In fact.]] Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the words of Mr Valenta. First of all, his contribution seems to me to bear the name "selling and vigilante" that would be consistent with the mentality that the Communists have always titled those they hated the most. Secondly, I would like to say that the Communists on the electoral committee are represented by Mrs Vostrá, who is the chairman of the Committee on Budgets. I have serious doubts that she, as an expert, the budget expert of the KSČM, would not be able to reveal what Mr Valenta reveals here. My colleague Vostrá did not mention any of what Mr Valenta said about anything on the electoral committee. Thirdly, I would like to say to the Margo of those salaries that TV has told us several times that it is generally possible to say that the salaries of the moderators of the main publicist and news programmes on Czech Television are significantly lower than those of commercial television and are around twice the average wage on Czech television. And four. If Mr Valent's vulgarity on Czech television bothers me, too, generally in public space everywhere, I hope that Mr Valenta will not forget to address this complaint to the President on 28 October, where he is certainly invited, unlike a number of democratic politicians, and will tell him that he does not like his vulgarity in another public medium, i.e. in the Czech Radio, fundamentally dislikes and opposes them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u11	Thank you, too. Now, with Mrs Valachová's point of fact, then Mr Martínek. And so I would like to take this moment just to remind you that we are discussing an activity report. I understand you're responding to speeches, but I'd stick to the subject. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u12	I will respond to the activities of Czech Television, to what was said here to address déčko. I would like to remind you that what a child looks at and at what age a parent determines. Parent! Of course, D is a show not only for small children, but also basically, let's say teenagers, can be viewed by someone who is 15 or 16. Perhaps in this spirit I would evaluate what is or is not intended in the so-called. Reporters. So that's the first point of fact. And the second point of fact. On the contrary, I would like to appreciate this channel. It's unique. It is unique, for example, educational programs on foreign language teaching give access to all children, regardless of whether someone has a wallet or not. They are on an excellent level and we should be proud of it as Čech. I don't understand why we're constantly criticizing each other. Other countries don't have something like that. And if - the third point of fact - I think of something as an I.D. of the Czech Republic, when I look at D, it occurs to me that our children and our families would deserve Czech animated new fairy tales or fairy tales for children, which is a question of the Ministry of Culture's budget, so I assume that colleagues from the SPD will strongly support the Minister of Culture in this budget and in the next budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u13	Thank you and now Mr Martínek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u14	Thank you. For logical reasons, I would like to propose a merger of paragraphs 247 and 248 of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u15	Yes, that is a procedural proposal, which we must possibly vote on. Then I'll call my colleagues to the ballroom. Since there's been a lot of movement in the hall since the last check-out, I'm gonna check you out. Please log in with your cards again. For the coming colleagues, I will repeat that we will be voting on the merger of the general debate on these two following points, that is to say on the reports on activity and management in 2017. I believe they've all arrived. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 179 votes 124 Members and Members, for 57, against 20. The motion was not accepted. We will continue this uncoordinated debate, and I am asking for a factual remark from Mr Valenta. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u16	Since I have spoken for a long time, I will no longer perform, I just have to respond to my colleague, Mrs Němcová. So I have to apologize for bringing it together a little bit. Unintendedly, though, I was on the fact that the messages were merged. But now I will no longer speak in the debate on economics, but to answer it, I personally told Mr. President of the Republic of Zeman that some of his statements, which were not often entirely after the line of writing Czech language and not politely that I blame him and that I would never use them myself - I can also mediate them. As far as salaries are concerned, Czech Television is a public body. We have a right to know. I don't care how tall they are, I don't want to influence it. I am simply interested in how high they are, and Czech dealers have the same right to know. And speaking of vulgarity, and that is my last point, my colleague Němcová, through Mr President, I suppose you could tell your club president that I would speak as he did, so that I could have someone with a motion for his resolution to shove it somewhere, so maybe we as communists won't talk like that. Only members of the democratic parties may speak like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u17	Thank you. At this point, I have no factual remarks or applications for a debate, so if no one is reporting from the point of view, I am ending this general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. It is. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u18	Thank you. From what was said, there were probably two things that most resonated to that activity. One of them was program D. I am aware that there was one excess around Palestine, and now I don't know in which year it happened, he was perceived more than other things. After all, we can see that even Czech TV, if you look at the number of complaints to the ČT Council, in 2016, there was a spike of about 50 complaints more than a year before and then, because there were inappropriate articles about migration and texts, so there was a reaction. I am aware that the audience is more sensitive to certain topics. However, I think that déčko in the last few months, after the committees have dealt with it, there has been some shift in the Reporter area. But that's just one of those many shows. I think it is necessary to accentuate, although I am aware of the criticism, that they reflect various anniversaries and relatively simple forms so that children know that there is some Czech statehood, that there are some things that concern us. I think that if anyone had any reservations about the excessive Europeanisation of this channel, there is a minimum of European anniversaries compared to really Czech national ones. So I think they really start there, where they're supposed to, so everyone knows which state they live in and what anniversaries we have. And it's all over the year. And there are other shows that are needed in the field of classical dance, etc., which I think are not used on television, and we have them available for our children. But of course we can keep talking about it, and I will welcome the discussion, and as I also talked to people from Czech Television, so I'm sure the direction of channel D will be happy to talk about it, about déčko, and we're all ready for it. The second thing concerns who got what space in publicity or news. So first of all, we have to realize that 6.5 billion. really, for the most part, it doesn't go to these things. And if anything, for example, money went to new studios in České Budějovice etc. to strengthen regional news coverage and most of the money is directed elsewhere than to pay for public or news programs. But when I admit to discussing this, such a flagship, which is often mentioned by Members, are the questions of Václav Moravec. In 2017, 138 guests were there, and of that, Mr President, of the 138 guests of Mr Moravec in 2017, there were only four pirát. Four pirát were there, and this is the same for the whole party as Mr Martin Stropnický, Mr Vice Prime Minister or then Minister Brabec or Mr Ivan Pilný. They've been there four times. I just want to say that I don't think any subject buys Czech TV and gives them any space. After all, it has been dealt with here in recent weeks, months, that TOP 09 has a bigger standing there. I don't want to be a lawyer to anybody, but KSČM had the same number of representatives on this show as TOP 09, which means 18. So I think there was a space on this flag show. Of course, in the coming weeks, we'll be dealing with the 2018 ratio when the map was redrawed. But just so you know, in this programme in 2017, the ratio of coalition versus opposition was 1.3:1 and the reality in the House was 1.25:1. So, really, that's where the effort is going. But it's up to everyone the way they see it. That is why, even after the debate, I do not think that there have been such important things that the 2017 activity report cannot be approved by Czech Television in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u19	Thank you, too. I believe that there have been no proposals in the general debate that we should now vote on. So we will proceed to the debate in detail. I don't have any applications for that. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Again, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u20	Just a resolution. If I may, we do not need to approve the procedure because there is only one motion for a resolution which has been discussed and proposed by the electoral committee. The resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies approves Parliament's Annual Report on Czech Television's Activity in 2017 according to House Press 143."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-24-ps2017-035-07-008-247.u21	Yes, I've called my colleagues in the O.R. I'm doing it again. That was the final word in the detailed debate, so now we should vote on the motion for a resolution. There is only one motion for a resolution, there is no need to approve the procedure. I believe there's a request for a check-out. I'll check you out. Please log in with your cards again. When the number of entries is settled, we will vote on the approval of the annual report... Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 180, 139 Members and Members were enrolled, for 107, against 26. The report was therefore approved. That's how we ran out of this point. I'm ending it. I thank the rapporteur and we will move on. [[17.20 hours]] And the next point is here.
