ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-016-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 311/2006 Coll., on fuel and petrol stations and on the amendment of certain related laws (the Fuel Act), as amended /German press 364/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Marta Nováková, Minister of Industry and Trade, will present the proposal. Please, you have the floor. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] I shall ask the Chamber of Deputies once again for peace. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-016-018.u2	Good evening. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to introduce you to Act No. 311/2006 Coll., on Fuels, as amended. The material is presented on the basis of a task resulting from the Government's legislative work plan for 2018. This law does not have a transposition character and is based on the initiative of existing practice, which, however, is based on the law, which therefore has a transposition character. The current practice is based on the impulses of business associations and associations, as well as from the public authorities concerned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-016-018.u3	Sorry, I'll cut you off, Madam Secretary. We will not continue until the Chamber of Deputies has calmed down. Again, I'd like to ask you to keep your voice down. It's a long day today, I understand, but it's coming to an end. So let's try to keep these last few minutes in a calm and dignified atmosphere. Who can't stand it, please go to the lobby and discuss it with your colleagues. [[Design from the O.R. to name a record.]] I don't want to resort to making a record. After all, I think we're adults and we can listen to each other. Thank you. Madam Secretary, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-016-018.u4	Thank you. The draft amendment to the Act on Fuels is presented because of the incorporation of new knowledge from the earlier application of the Act in practice and the need to clarify terms in the field of electromobility. The main proposed changes are the pre-condition of an exception to the definition of a distributor of fuel and the associated limitation of the obligation of entrepreneurs and the new definition of all that is included in the concept of fuel dispensation, which takes place in particular outside publicly accessible service stations, for example in the construction industry, in the forestry industry or in agriculture. The purpose of these changes is to strengthen the legal certainty of the business public in an extensive interpretation of the law. [[18.50 hours]] Two. Other changes relate to fuel supply records and data structure of registered charging stations. The Ministry of Industry and Trade records shall be established and the obligations associated with this shall be established for the owners of the dispensing units. The existing registration of charging stations is extended by additional data for registration and reporting needs in the area. Furthermore, the law states that natural gas for use in transport means both CNG compressed natural gas and LNG liquefied natural gas as well as biomass. The amendment further regulates the Act on Fuels so that it is in line with the new legal regulation of misdemeanor law, thus in areas of a more clearly formulated legal environment in the management of fuel, more efficient data management in the field of filling stations, dispensing units and network of charging stations in the Czech Republic. The possibility of controlling the state administration and thus protecting the final customer is also strengthened. Furthermore, the rights and obligations of employers and employees in the sale of fuel in the context of the use of service vehicles and for private purposes, as well as the use of fuel by tenants and landlords of cars or machinery and equipment are clarified. An overview of fuel handling sites is improving outside the petrol stations. Furthermore, in addition to the one-off registration of previously unregistered equipment and charging stations, the amendment does not impose a major burden on the business public and final consumers. The preparation of the amendment was kept under constant consultation with the state authorities concerned, in particular customs and tax, and in particular professional associations and associations, and is the result of a general consensus. The draft amendment passed a full inter-ministerial commentary procedure and was submitted to the government of the Czech Republic without conflict. The Government discussed the proposal and approved its resolution number 846 at its meeting on 17 December 2018. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this law both in today's negotiations and in the following legislative process in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently in the second and third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-016-018.u5	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Martin Kolovratník to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-016-018.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good evening. I will be extremely brief, co-workers and colleagues, because the Minister, including his colleagues and colleagues from the MIT, has been waiting for this bill to move on for several nights. So behind the club newsletter, as has been said, it is a relatively smaller amendment, which actually responds primarily to the knowledge from practice. The law was last amended in 2017, where the definition of electric charging points of electric vehicles was introduced there during the last election period, and now, as was said a little while ago, it is only described the practice and tightening especially those so-called dispensings, dispensed fuel, which are somewhat different, respectively registered until now than the classic petrol station. I don't know yet that there should be any controversial issues in this novel. It shall be ordered as a guarantee committee to the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-06-ps2017-027-02-016-018.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I have no one registered in writing. I'm looking at the plenary to see if anyone's logged in. No one is. I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? Madam Secretary? No. The rapporteur? Not either. There's no motion to return or refuse. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I can't see. I shall have a vote on the allocation of the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 116. Registered 163 Members and Members, for 126. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. I'm saying we've dealt with the press. We have six minutes to go. We have two options. Either we open another press or we end today's meeting day. After the agreement, I conclude today's meeting day and I state that we will continue tomorrow at 9.00 a.m. with answers to written interpelations. Thank you.
