ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-020-137.u1	137. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification The Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures to Combat the Reduction of the Tax Basis and Transfer of Profits in relation to Tax Contracts signed in Paris on 7 June 2017 /Household Print 264/ - First Reading Once again, Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová will present this proposal to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-020-137.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to present the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures to Combat the Reduction of the Tax Basis and Transfer of Profits in relation to Tax Contracts, which I signed in Paris on 7 June 2017. The Convention is one of the tangible results of the BEPS /Base erosion profit shifting/ Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development project. It has been developed as an innovative approach, which takes the form of an international multilateral convention, which allows the collective and in a relatively short period of time for the implementation of the conclusions of this project into the content of existing international double taxation treaties. The Czech Republic has decided to make use of this Convention in such a way that it will implement all the so-called minimum standards resulting from the BEPS project in the context of these treaties into its bilateral double taxation agreements. The agreed minimum standards concern, in particular, the introduction of a rule against the abuse of these bilateral agreements, the explicit mention of the objective and meaning of the contracts, and then these standards bring changes to the article of the double taxation treaties which affect the area of the case settlement by agreement with a view to effective and timely resolution, or disputes arising in the area of application and interpretation of these major international tax agreements. Out of the number of 88 contracts in force, the Czech Republic will now cover the Convention 52 contracts, where the effects of the Convention on their texts can be predicted at the moment. Contracts for which the effects are now unpredictable, for example because the other Party does not communicate and solve problems, have not yet signed the Convention, has not covered the Treaty with the Czech Republic by the Convention and so on, the Czech Republic will not now be included under the regime of the Convention. As regards the currently uncovered double taxation agreements in force, nothing precludes their possible inclusion under the Convention regime in the future. This applies to both bad contracts at the moment and, of course, contracts that are not yet in force at the moment. For your information, in the context of double taxation agreements, I state that double taxation agreements with Iraq, Bangladesh and Qatar are currently being prepared to sign. Contracts with Kyrgyzstan, Opán (?) are already prepared for signing from the Czech side (?), Gabon, Botswana, Cameroon and Senegal, and are now being discussed by Parliament in addition to this multilateral convention, there are also treaties with South Korea, Ghana and Kosovo. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose, on the basis of the above, that you take this into account and that this multilateral convention has been recommended for further deliberation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-020-137.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for first reading is Mr Jiří Kobza. I ask the rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-020-137.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the perfectly detailed interpretation of the Minister, there is little left to say. This is a multilateral contract designed to prevent the transfer of profits abroad, to limit the withdrawal of funds from the State where they generate profits. I am fully convinced that this Treaty is deeply in the interests of the Czech Republic and therefore I dare ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-02-13-ps2017-026-10-020-137.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. No one is reporting to the general debate. I am ending the general debate. There's no interest in final words. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Is there another motion for discussion, please? It's not. So we will vote on the proposal being submitted to the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 238. 174 Members registered, for 145, against no one. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee, and we have concluded the first reading of this proposal. Opening point
