ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u1	12. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties /German press 256/ - second reading I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, that he is ready. I will ask Mr Jakub Michálek for the same preparation as the rapporteur and also Mr Ondřej Profant, who is rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. [[There's noise in the room.]] Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I will ask the House for peace. Thank you. The word is spoken by Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a very brief presentation of the Government's bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. The aim of the proposal is to amend certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. It was approved in 2016 and its aim is the electronization and overall fundamental modernisation of the lawmaking process. The proposal brings in particular the necessary amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate and the Act on the Constitutional Court, and makes technical amendments to a number of laws in connection with the unification of the Collection of Laws and Collections of International Treaties into a single collection, and at the same time sets a new date for the effectiveness of the entire legislation, namely on 1 January 2021. [[Permanent heavy noise in the hall.]] I would remind you that the similar proposal was already approved by both the Government and the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term. It became part of the award of technical solutions of eProjects Collection and eLegislativa. However, the original proposal has not yet been discussed by the Senate and is therefore not applicable due to interim changes in the rule of law. In view of this, it is therefore necessary to approve a new draft amendment law to the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. Finally, let me thank you for the helpful approach to discussing the proposal at committee meetings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you and ask the House once more for peace! If you are having a debate other than the law on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, please in the foyer, so that the Vice-President does not have to shout at you so that the stenographers can at least do their job because you make it very difficult for them. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u4	I just wanted to thank you for the helpful approach to discussing the proposal at committee and subcommittee meetings. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u5	I thank the Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was assigned to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 256/1 to 4. I therefore now ask the rapporteur of the constitutional committee of Mr Jakub Michálek to inform us of the committee's discussions and to justify any amendments. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the opinion on the constitutional committee has been circulated to you as the Parliamentary Press 256/4 in which there are also amendments adopted by the Constitutional Committee. The Constitutional Committee decided on the basis of recommendations of the Sub-Committee on the Electronic Collection of Laws and Digitisation of Justice. The proposals that are there are listed under points 1 to 12, and I will give them a very brief explanation. Much of this can be declared legislative changes. There is Mr Pikal's amendment, which brings together provisions that have been distributed throughout the Rules of Procedure. There are provisions relating to a regime where it will not be possible to operate fully in electronic form, in the online form, when the link is being made directly to the Collection of Laws, as the electronic system will be at the Ministry of the Interior, so that we can operate electronically in the backup mode, offline, and only if this is not possible, so that it will go into paper form. What I consider - I will not be here to recapitulate all these legislative technical proposals, I will say what I consider most important, and that we have proposed, on the basis of negotiations with the Ministry of the Interior and on the basis of the demands of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies and the Office of the Senate, to extend the effectiveness of the law to 2022 and we have been given a commitment from the Ministry of the Interior that the system will be in testing mode from 1. 7. 2020. So from then on, we'll be able to test the system. The system will be tested on the government in the framework of government legislation and, on the one hand, I expect to carry out several testing runs here in the Chamber of Deputies on the laws we choose, and they will run in parallel in the electronic form in the eCollection, so that when the law comes into force, then in the one-and-a-half-year test regime, all the flies will be picked up and really there is no risk in the legislative process. At the same time, I think that this is a wise solution because the system will fully work with the new Chamber of Deputies, after the elections in 2021. That means those of you who won't want to learn with the new system, or your assistants won't want to learn with it, with the new system, so they won't be forced to learn this. It will only work from the new term. Part of the recommended proposals of the Constitutional Legal Committee is also an issue that we have managed to resolve very successfully with the Ministry of the Interior in order to ensure that the Member decides to publish his amendments, that it will not be so that he prepares them in that information system of the Ministry of the Interior and someone would have unauthorized access to them. But he'll actually be able to process them offline. Of course, even using some proposals from interest groups. And matters relating to transparency will thus be dealt with under the lobbying act, which is to be presented by the government. Another amendment tabled by the Constitutional Committee concerns that the data contained in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties should be available as open data within the meaning of the special legislation, or the Act on Free Access to Information, which is in essence consistent with the policy and the municipal provisions of the Act on Free Access to Information. So I think I have justified these fundamental issues, and now it would be desirable that I briefly comment on the general policy of dealing with the situation where we have a valid law on the Collection of Laws here. We have a law-related amendment here, which, according to preliminary talks, has no support in the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u7	I understand, Mr rapporteur. Once again, I will ask the House for peace, colleagues who are having a debate, certainly very important here in a group on the left, if they would transfer it to the foyer, because we need to create a decent environment and an environment that will enable what we create here to be accessible to the people as well. And the Collection of Laws is really something that is essential to the outcome of our efforts. Proceed, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. So, as I have already said here, the situation has occurred that the Senate has a different opinion. The Senate has made any changes to its Rules of Procedure subject to the submission of an amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which will extend the time for the Senate to 60 days. On this issue was the meeting organised by Mr Hamáček, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior. Unfortunately, as it seems, we have failed to reach a consensus. An amendment has been tabled, which is included in the system which proposes the removal of those parts which determine the rule of law under Article 40 of the Constitution. So if this amendment is adopted and there is no agreement, then I support it for it to be adopted, then this law will enter into the rule of law, where consent is required only to the Chamber of Deputies, and the Chamber of Deputies can overrule the Senate. In such a case, it would be reasonable for the Government to come up with a bill that will implement amendments to the Senate Rules of Procedure in an accelerated regime so that there is no conflict between the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the Act on the Collection of Laws and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The current situation is that if this amendment law is adopted or not, the Act on the Collection of Laws will be activated. And both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate will be bound by the provisions of the Act on the Collection of Laws, that is, the preparation of legislation will have to take place in the Information System of the Collection of Laws. So I would recommend that we proceed in such a way that if we fail to reach an agreement with the Senate, a quick amendment will be submitted, which will ensure changes in the Senate's Rules of Procedure and ensure some consistency, because one way or another, the law on the Collection of Laws will be activated. As rapporteur, I would like to add that the amendment by Mr Benda and other Members concerning all citizens and all Members to have at their disposal information on the new obligations in the field of public law is being discussed very actively. It is a proposal whose legislative form has been developed by the Ministry of the Interior. However, we failed to reach the final version of this proposal on the Constitutional Legal Committee, so this is not a proposal recommended by the Constitutional Legal Committee. But I think it's beneficial. It also follows from the discussion we had in Václav Moravec's questions with President Faltýnek and Vice-President Kupka. I see they're both working on their cell phones, so it's desirable to remind this place not to fit in. So this amendment, I presume, will still be completed in particular with regard to - I have already received its final version, and in particular there we have dealt with the issue of the regime when it comes to the law of effectiveness, so as not to paralyze the Chamber of Deputies, that every new law would require an overview of the obligations contained in the current proposal, which is valid, so it would be virtually impossible to submit amendments to the laws by Members until the government has prepared an overview of those obligations. So this thing, too, has been able to solve it. And I think that the Chamber of Deputies should also seriously consider this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u9	I thank the rapporteur for the constitutional committee. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Ondřej Profant, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u10	Good morning. I think my previous speaker was quite exhausting and described the situation. The Committee on Public Report and Regional Development has taken this more easily and in the Houses of the Press 256/3 only recommended adopting the law as it is. He did not accept any amendments to it, and I think that there were no amendments, either, because it had been discussed quite a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. After the news reports, I can open a general debate. The first to be entered in the general debate is Mr Marek Benda. Before I give him my word, I'll read the apologies from the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Mrs Oborná apologizes between 15 and 18 o'clock. Mrs Hyťhová extends her apology from 10.00 to 11.30 for work reasons. And Vice-President Pikal apologizes from 11:45 to 13:00 for business reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u12	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Vice-President of the Government and plaintiff, Madam Secretary, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to justify two proposals in the general debate, which I will then sign up for in detail in the debate. There is a reading of the standard, which will be absolutely essential for us in particular, and I see that the interest of the House is almost zero. And I think when we find out what the Electronic Collection of Laws means, we'll all be very, very surprised. But luckily, we have decided just after long discussions with our legislation and our constitutional law committee that we will put our effectiveness on hold until the beginning of the next parliamentary term, so that those who feel that they really do not want to worry about it, so that they do not have to worry about it. It will mean quite a fundamental change. When such a change is being made, we decided to propose with our fellow Members, in particular from the subcommittee on digitization by the Pirates and from YES one proposal that we consider to be crucial. You know that it has already been discussed here in the past whether there should be a table of what is actually required of legal entities. In the past, this request was made by the Chamber of Commerce, and at the end of the last parliamentary term, across the political spectrum, it was intended to adopt a proposal relating to business entities and which, directly in the law, would say that part of the law is binding - binding - a table of obligations arising. There was a very extensive debate on the subject at that time. They opposed, in particular, constitutional lawyers who said: We cannot go the way where we will have the text of the law and in addition a binding table. What would be the priority? How would such problems be solved? And then there were doubts as to whether it was fair for only business entities to be concerned, if it shouldn't apply to everyone. On the basis of this discussion, when the Senate returned it and the House could no longer vote, we have turned to the fact that we are going a more moderate variant, which we have finally reached agreement with the Ministry of the Interior - here in this regard I would like to thank them, because I think the negotiations were very constructive. A more moderate option, because in the electronic Collection of Laws, it is assumed that the explanatory reports will also be included. They will not be as they are today, that you will come up with only a pure text of the law, but also a reason message will be part of, although in another section, but part of the electronic Collection of Laws. [[11.00 hours]] That is why we have decided that it would be right that, in addition, we should just create a table of obligations which state, virtually. The legislature, which finally accepts this, takes on individual citizens of this country by adopting a given standard, so that it is quite clear which body has the obligation, what sanctions are for it, or what other circumstances of this obligation are. We consider this very useful for the citizens. As a result, I think it can also mean that in a number of laws, we will really consider whether we must adopt them if we see the huge table of what the ministerial servants have prepared for us here that we will always be able to discuss the individual obligation and say: Is it right that there should be a ban on crossing off with a fine of up to CZK 50,000? Is that reasonable? So this is the main reason for which we want the next time as a non-binding but mandatory part of the legislation to be a table of public obligations which are the appropriate standard imposed on citizens. When this proposal came to the ground of the Constitutional Legal Committee, there were great doubts, because there was a concern - as Mr Michálek said earlier - that there was a great concern that we would always like to have a complete table of these obligations at the beginning, at the first hearing of each bill. And of course that's what government legislation is capable of, they can do it. It is probably questionable whether the various other appellants, whether Members, groups of Members, the Senate, regional councils and those who have legislative authority from the Constitution, would be able to do so. That is why, in the end, we have decided to take the road - with regard to other appellants, other than the government, they only submit a table of obligations arising from the amendments proposed by them. The government must present this table in its entirety and in its entirety at the first presentation of the bill. That is the first proposal that I will then sign up to in a detailed debate, and I would very much like the Chamber of Deputies to approve it, because I think that it really should mean a significant clarification of the rule of law in the future and, in particular, a significant clarification of the obligations arising from the rule of law. The second amendment that we are proposing with Mr Kupka - and I will not hide that it was his idea, but only because I am on this committee, so I took it as my own - is a proposal that we, even from the existing Collection of Laws, not with the raid of a new e Collection, to say that there are two terms in the country for which laws are being declared - 1. 1. and 1. 7. To put an end to this desperate efficiency: it takes effect on the 15th day, it takes effect on the first day of the third month, all of this that we still know, but just to be clear, just look, on 1st July, the laws take effect on those and you, on 1st January, acquire some more. Of course, there is an exception in case we need to do something fundamental, the UN Security Council's decision, some other international bodies, there are major crises, we are declaring a state of legislative emergency because floods or fires have arrived, then of course it would be possible to break this option, but that the general rule in the country should apply - laws take effect 1. 1. or 1. 7. so that we can have these two terms and always have an understanding of what to look at and since when it applies to me and I didn't have to study it for too long. So much, at least briefly, the justification on my part for the two amendments that we are making, and then I will sign up in a detailed debate on the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have no further application for the general debate. Yes, I do. Mr. Kupka reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u14	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, honourable Members, I will only try very briefly to add to Mr Benda, and I will allow myself to focus your attention on both of these proposals, because we really consider them important. It is important for the Czech rule of law to be simplified and to make it more understandable and accessible to citizens of the Czech Republic, so that it is really tangible to them, what legal standard brings them for obligations. Because, not only for the legislator, but in practice for the mayor, for entrepreneurs, for anyone who has to deal with the Czech Republic as a state, he places some tasks on him, it is very complicated, and what we are bringing, this approach could convey this information to people. And to convey in a understandable way, at the same time, as has been said, it should also serve to be more moderate in the discussion of laws, in the adoption of laws, so that they are really less and are as good as possible. In this respect, to equip every novel, everything that really goes on the table here to the House, a clear table that says: František Závorka, if he is a locksmith, for example, he must do this and that and that and the standard is now imposing it on him - or vice versa, and we would like to achieve this even more often, unnecessary responsibilities you, you and you take away from him. It'll be easier for him. This is the real ambition of the legal regulation, and I am convinced that this is the solution that would contribute to the fact that the Czech Republic has a clearer, simpler rule of law, so that the state still does not impose as much responsibilities on people as it is on them at the moment. The second thing, namely the anchoring of two days of effectiveness, on 1 January and on 1 July, is given the same motivation - that the Czech state be more understandable and clear for citizens, for entrepreneurs, for all who have obligations towards it. We inspired ourselves in the world. Some states have a similar case. Great Britain didn't even have to establish it in the law, but it holds it historically as a tradition, and it doesn't even have to be written anywhere. If you talk to businessmen, if you talk to school directors, it is distinctive, tangible. It will depend on the fact that if a law is passed, its effectiveness, which it must prepare for, will be either on 1 January or on 1 July, while it is even more difficult to monitor when the new obligation will actually come into force, since it is necessary to focus on it. The determination of these two days is not extremely difficult for us, for legislation, but it is a step that will undoubtedly benefit the Czech Republic, for those who must fulfil the obligations arising from the laws adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. So I would also like to ask you to discuss and approve those modifications that are really practical in this regard, not an abstract concept.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u15	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one applies to the general debate, so I am ending it. Interest in final words - neither the Minister nor the rapporteur. Before I open up a detailed debate, two apologies. Mr Radek Koten apologizes within 12 hours and Mr Kamal Farhan from 16 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. I am opening up a detailed debate. Vice-President Pikal is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u16	Hello. I apologize to my colleague, Benda, who I have been so ahead of, but I do have some minor legislative technical amendments that I would like to introduce to you. This is, on the one hand, House document 2948, an amendment to the amendment of the constitutionally-legal committee. I thank the Constitutional Committee for drawing up my change, which instead of having the Rules of Procedure messed up in different places with relatively long paragraphs about who has ever made such a legislative technical adjustment, so it is in one place where it will not commit, but after some consultation I decided that this proposal of mine is not perfect and that there is one more minor change to be added, and that is that the words "which have entered into force or have been declared after the drafting of the bill" should be added. The point is that the House Office, after the law is passed, should not have to, or that Members or other legislators, or those having legislative initiative, do not give legislative scumbags that will not reflect changes to the law that have already taken place, but that the legislators have to do it in advance, not in order for the House Office to have to do it for them. It's some kind of precaution. [[11.10 hours]] The other one's another thing. As you have noticed, when we submit an amendment to the bill, the system will tell us that we should print out a copy twice and hand it over to the President and one rapporteur. I, of course, have them signed here, but I find it rather outdated. So now that we're introducing the electronization into the system of monitoring the legislative process, I think we could step away from the paper, especially in cases where these things are already electronically loaded, so I'm changing the word "a" for the word "or" so that where the law is filed electronically, there's no need to distribute printed copies here, and where the law is not read electronically, or otherwise. another proposal, which concerns the various resolutions that we regularly discuss here, so that the obligation is still there, unless we have some other system for recording electronic resolutions on various current cases, etc. So these are my two proposals that I'm applying to. Once again, this is House document 2948 and House document 2949. The detailed justification is then in the thousands themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u17	Thank you. Another in the detailed debate is Mr Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u18	Mr Vice-President, Mr appellant, ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer delay. In the general debate, I have justified my proposals, so I would like to apply to the House documents 2940, this is the table of obligations in the last version, and to the House document 2947, which is the effectiveness mentioned 1. 7. and 1. 1. I am, of course, making the rapporteur and the President available, as the Rules of Procedure impose on me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u19	Minister in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u20	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendment number 2935, this is an amendment which releases laws from this press, for whose approval the express consent of both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic is needed, i.e. the laws referred to in Article 40 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The rapporteur discussed this in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u21	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for a detailed debate, please? No? I am ending the debate in detail. Interested in the final words? He has a rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u22	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna recap. We have Mr Benda's amendment to the table of public obligations, Mr Benda and Mr Kupka, to be effective once every six months, Mr Pikal, which is two technical proposals for the submission of paper amendments, and Mr Hamáček's proposal, the removal of parts relating to the regime of Article 40 of the Constitution and requiring the approval of the Senate. Finally, I would like to thank the Ministry of the Interior for addressing the issue of the so-called Constitutional Legal Committee's resolution. Obsolete legislation, i.e. a large number of legislation, which has already come out of use, has been abolished by general cancellation clauses, etc., but it is not clear what legislation is currently in force. So it's appropriate for that number to be narrowed in some way. And it is a good thing that the Ministry of the Interior and the general government are dealing with this issue and are planning to submit an amendment that will abolish the obsolent legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-06-ps2017-030-07-003-012.u23	Thank you. That was the final word. And since there was no proposal that we should vote on, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Let's open another point. It's about
