ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-013-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 72/2000 Coll., on investment incentives and amending certain laws (the Act on investment incentives), as amended, and Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended / House print 298/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be given by the Minister of Industry and Trade Marta Nováková, who I hereby give the floor, and I will ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace in the Chamber. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-013-012.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members. Let me briefly mention the discussion of the Ministry of Industry and Trade material, which is a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Investment Incentives and related parts of the Employment Act. This material was presented in more detail at the first reading on 25 January of this year. To remind you. In the current economic situation, when our country is experiencing a period of economic prosperity, the current setting of public support is too extensive. The main objective of the proposed amendment is to limit the wide availability of investment incentives and to change the strategy on their decision-making in such a way as to provide them only in exceptional and justified cases. This means limiting entitlement to an investment incentive. The new focus of investment incentives should encourage firms to invest in their development, to invest in research and development, to employ researchers or to cooperate with research organisations. This will be specified in the implementing regulation to the submitted law, which will, in accordance with the legal authorisation, further define the condition of higher added value of supported investments. At first reading, a reservation was made in the general debate on the draft law that investment incentives distort the market. We understand that argument. However, this problem applies to any public support, with incentives being only one of its programmes. Any economic instrument that causes market distortion should be defendable until the negative effects are outweighed by other positive effects for the whole of society. This is what we want to ensure by strict but objectively defined rules for supporting projects within the meaning of their actually added value and by newly and subjective assessment of all projects by the government, which will serve as another filter of suitable projects and which will prevent only formal setting of conditions. The draft law was discussed at a meeting of the Economic Committee. By its resolution of 20 March 2019, the Economic Committee recommended that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve this draft law, as amended by the amendments and one legislative technical amendment. The Ministry of Industry and Trade agrees with the conclusion of the Economic Committee. Madam, honourable Members, I hereby ask you to support this bill and its release until the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-013-012.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'd like some peace in the courtroom. On the left. I understand you have something important to discuss in the left side of the hall, but I'd like you to deal with it in the lobby if you have anything. We're not going to continue until it's quiet. And I'm gonna ask the service if she can switch points, 'cause we're discussing another point. [[on the light board]] It's okay. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 298/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-013-012.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not here to describe what I said here in January when we were discussing this law at first reading. Anyone who is interested can look at my extensive intelligence report on this law in the Steno Protocol. However, I would like to confirm what the Secretary of State said here. On 22 March, the Economic Committee discussed this draft law, or rather this amendment, with the adoption of four amendments. I will ask their respective submitters to follow me and possibly supplement me or correct me if I have not interpreted their proposal correctly. However, the first proposal adopted by the Economic Committee is de facto exclusion from the list of supported call centre events, because the Economic Committee adopted the idea that it did not meet the objective of the law. Call centres do not meet the added value for the economy of the Czech Republic and therefore the economic committee adopted this proposal. The second proposal he adopted is a colleague of Pavel Pustějovskýějovský. It is an addition to the amendment to the Chamber of Commerce Act, which should participate in the evaluation of individual investment incentives and cooperate on specific conditions of the Government Regulation. Another two proposals were submitted by a colleague Roman Kubíček. The first one is a reference directly in the amendment, in the text of the amendment to the directive, to the EU regulation, which is Commission Regulation No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014. It is de facto that if someone had violated the beneficiary of the investment incentive, this EU regulation would have ceased to apply. And the last proposal adopted by the Economic Committee, once again by Roman Kubíček, is a return to the text of the Act on how to deal with the case where the promise of investment incentives was made, but its objectives and criteria were not met, so how would this be addressed. In the original proposal by the Government, there was a proposal to address this as a violation of budgetary discipline. This proposal returns the original provision, which means that it would be dealt with under tax laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-013-012.u5	Thank you. At this point, I am opening a general debate in which Mr Vojtěch Munzar is joined. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-013-012.u6	Thank you. I switched papers. I'm going to repeat some of the political issues that I have said here, my opinion and the opinion of the ODS on investment incentives as a whole. Investment incentives, and she told the secretary here, are just another grant title. Investment incentives have created, created, and if this bill passes, they will create an unfair competitive environment and continue to distort the market. I cannot agree with the Madam Secretary that there are a lot of these tools that are crooked by the market, so we can support others in peace. I personally don't think so, and I think we should think about how to reduce precisely the measures that distort the market. Investment incentives confer an advantage on those who receive an incentive compared to those who do not. Large, particularly large and particularly foreign companies and corporations receive benefits, for example in the form of tax holidays, subsidies for jobs or subsidies for property acquisition. Of course, thanks to these advantages, they can offer cheaper services, products, or maybe even give higher wages and overwhelm workers at a time when there is a shortage of qualified workers. So you're going to help one company with investment incentives, but you're going to de facto hurt the other company. It was not even clear that investment incentives would lead to an increase in business opportunities for existing Czech companies in the area. Thus, the beneficiaries of investment incentives, with State aid, de facto cannibalize other entrepreneurs and firms in the region, especially those small and medium-sized ones who do not have that advantage, but de facto pay it to the large ones directly or indirectly. We agree with the government that the existing model of investment incentives has long been overcome, for the reasons that I have said here. But we do not agree that the Ministry of Industry and Trade does not want to give up the possibility of granting benefits. Because that's what this is all about. It's about the fact that the Ministry of Industry and Trade doesn't want to give up making decisions about granting benefits. It even rejected comments from the Ministry of Finance in the commentary procedure, which wanted to evaluate quite correctly the option of abolishing the conditions and a thorough analysis of the proposed criteria and their intervention in the market and economy. The MIT rejected this with the need to adopt the amendment quickly and the analysis would be too burdensome. As you know, colleagues and colleagues, I often disagree with the Ministry of Finance, but here I have to commend the Ministry of Finance for these comments. This shows that it was not given on the basis of the needs of our economy, but on the basis of the needs of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to decide on the benefits for the chosen. It's an effort to maintain the law at all costs. [[18.10 hours]] The amendment is intended to lead to the alleged support and development of projects with higher added value. Unfortunately, when you look at the criteria, the Ministry focused on the activity, but not on the result. This could result, for example, in the introduction of an innovative product on the market. But that didn't happen. Even the selected criteria, which further specify the government's regulation, such as the type of 80 per cent of employees with an above-average salary in the region, and only on 1 December of the calendar year, are not really good. The competitive advantage of the Czech Republic from our point of view should be something else - low taxes, reduction of compulsory contributions, stable and friendly business environment, low levels of regulation, efficient government and quality infrastructure. That would be the real competitive advantage of our state, that would help everyone. Even the existing companies that run the business here. Not some kind of grant title. This would attract others to come to our country, not just for the duration of a special investment incentive. Unfortunately, from low taxes, a stable and friendly business environment, from a low level of regulation, from effective government and high-quality, fast infrastructure development in recent years, we are unfortunately moving away. Liberalization of the business environment. That's what the government should be focusing on. But on the other hand, the MPO is actually figuring out how to give benefits and subsidies to someone. This is also evident in the dispute, if you have observed it, whether the government is to decide whether to grant investment incentives by its decision, or it is to be a vending machine, and it is to be decided by officials. Investment incentives, from my point of view, are a discriminatory tool. Most entrepreneurs don't touch them. If you look at the CzechInvest and the Ministry of Industry and Trade numbers, more than 90 percent of investment incentives have been granted to large companies only in the past. For these reasons, in a detailed debate for ODS, I will propose the repeal of the law and this instrument as a whole. I understand that the coalition parties may not agree with us on this. But try to take this as an opportunity to actually make the necessary economic analyses and not decide only on the basis of the results of round tables with those who are beneficiaries of these benefits and, of course, do not want to give up these benefits. And since this proposal does not have to get your support, we also come up with a second proposal. I'd say compromise. This proposal is for investment incentives to continue to be granted only to small and medium-sized enterprises. Because they're the ones who are the real engine of the economy. They share, for example, 60 per cent of total employment. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the main driving force of innovation, which is also acknowledged by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in its explanatory report. However, during the entire period of investment incentives they were at the edge of the aid. I'll just say a few numbers so you can judge for yourself. Of the total number of 1 204 supported projects as of December, 31. 12. 2018, only 116 companies complied with the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises. And the situation has not improved in recent years, when government policy is building ever greater and larger barriers that burden business in the Czech Republic. In the last five years, a total of 429 projects have been supported and the sum of the public support ceilings for these projects has reached CZK 64 billion. Of course, only 51 companies were companies that met the criteria of small and medium-sized enterprises. Let us not forget that taxpayers' money is used directly or indirectly in the form of tax holidays for these investment aids. Therefore, if investment incentives should remain, only for small and medium-sized companies. So for the companies that are at home, they have a background here, and they won't leave with profit after the investment incentives are over. This would also contribute to the growth of Czech capital. It will therefore be of great interest to me, with all due respect to the Minister, the position of the new Minister of Industry and Trade, who has been in the past in the role of supporters of small and medium-sized enterprises. Here on this proposal, he will have a particular opportunity to really support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-013-012.u7	Thank you. I have no one else registered in the general debate. I am ending this general debate. Is there any interest in final words? [[No.]] Not interested. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Pavel Juříček, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-013-012.u8	Thank you. I was the one who justified it here in the general debate. This means that I am signing up for the amendment that is being conducted in the House of Deputies under number 2589, and I am also signing up for the amendment under number 2590. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-013-012.u9	Thank you. Mr Pavel Juříček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-013-012.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 2459. And the reasoning that is there is actually given by business practice, because it is appropriate that, in this amendment, I propose that the government decide on investment conditions yes - not within three months, so that the company can plan and, at the same time, can sort out its business case and its business study. At the debate that took place on the Economic Committee on this matter, I think the Minister explicitly said that she agreed with this condition here and that the government would not have a problem with it, because it has logic. I just want to get my colleague Munzar out of some - well, thank you. [[The President requests that he speak to the point.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-04-17-ps2017-028-02-013-012.u11	So I don't have anyone else enrolled in a detailed debate. I conclude the detailed debate and end the second reading of this proposal. I'll read an apology. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes for today's meeting from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons. The next item is
