ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-001-087.u1	87. Government proposal by the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give prior consent to the proposal for a Council regulation on measures relating to the implementation and financing of the general budget of the Union in 2019 in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union /German press 414-E/ - first reading Before I go on this point, I'll read you more note cards. The Minister of Education Robert Plaga apologizes to us today for working reasons and he apologizes to us since Pustějovský for working reasons. The Government has submitted a proposal to express the consent of the House pursuant to Section 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies without undue delay, so as to allow its timely consideration. The proposal submitted will be presented by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-001-087.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to introduce you to the proposal for a Council regulation on measures relating to the implementation and financing of the general budget of the Union in 2019 in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union. The date of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union is approaching. However, it is still unclear how it will take place. At national and European level, preparations are therefore under way for all scenarios, for various areas of mutual relations. In the area of the budget, the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union without an agreement, so-called a hard brexit, causing there to be no legally binding arrangements on budgetary relations between the United Kingdom and the Union, and this legal vacuum would create uncertainty and problems in implementing the Union budget. The United Kingdom, which is a net payer to the EU budget, would stop contributing to the EU budget on the day of withdrawal and, on the contrary, British beneficiaries would no longer be eligible to receive financial contributions. Therefore, at the end of January, the European Commission approved and submitted to the Member States and their national parliaments a proposal for a Council Regulation on measures relating to the implementation and financing of the Union budget in 2019 in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union. The proposal for a regulation temporarily, which is by the end of 2019, will allow the United Kingdom, even after a hard brexit, to participate in the financing of the EU budget and, on the contrary, to draw on it as it would continue to be a member of the EU. The Government adopted a framework position approved on 12 February for the proposal for a regulation. From the perspective of the Czech Republic, it is crucial for the United Kingdom to comply to the maximum extent with its financial commitments from the time of its membership in the EU, which is why the government welcomed the Commission's proposal. The Commission's proposal will allow the United Kingdom to further contribute to the EU budget in 2019, thereby minimizing the impact of brexit on other Member States' budgets, including the Czech Republic. The European Commission has chosen Article 352 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union as the legal basis for this Regulation, so called. flexibility clause. This requires both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic to be informed in accordance with the subsidiarity principle control. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, the Government is obliged to seek the consent of both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic before it gives its consent to the Council. That is why the Government is now submitting a proposal for this Commission regulation to both Parliament's chambers for prior approval so that it can approve this regulation for the Czech Republic in the Council of Europe. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-001-087.u3	Thank you, too. Quiet in the House, please. The President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered by his decision number 26 of 21 February 2019 this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on European Affairs and set a deadline until 8 March 2019. The Committee has discussed the proposal and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 414-E/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Ondřej Benešík, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and also present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-001-087.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Committee on European Affairs after hearing information from Deputy Minister of Finance JUDr. Lenka Dupáková and after hearing Mr Ondřej Benešík's report and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives its prior consent to the proposal for a Council regulation on measures relating to the implementation and financing of the general budget of the Union in 2019 in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union; II. empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Short comment. The Committee has clearly concluded that this is in the interests of the Czech Republic, in order to address the financial interests of the Czech Republic, but of course also the financial interests and opportunities of entities in the United Kingdom, which draw on the European budget and could, in the case of hard brexit, enter into some great legal uncertainty. So it is in the interests of the Czech Republic that we should avoid these possible complications if there were a so-called hard brexit. As a committee, we recommend that the House plenary approve such a proposed resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-001-087.u5	I, too, thank you and open a debate that I do not have applications for at the moment. I would like to ask if anyone is joining the debate on this point. Or ask for peace in the hall. Doesn't look like anyone's checking in. So I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words, Madam Secretary. [[It's not.]] It's not. Mr. Rapporteur? [[It's not.]] It's not. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled. I believe that only one motion has been made, namely the motion for a resolution. Isn't that right, rapporteur? I guess so. In that case, the motion for a resolution was made. I don't know if I'm gonna reload it, but I'd better get it right. So I would ask the rapporteur to read the motion one more time. It's quiet now, so maybe he'll be more perceived.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-001-087.u6	Mr Vice-President, the whole motion for a resolution, how did it come from the committee? So: I. Committee recommends The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives its prior consent to the proposal for a Council regulation on measures relating to the implementation and financing of the general budget of the Union in 2019 in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-001-087.u7	Thank you. I think it's understandable what we're going to vote on. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's the vote number 289. 169 Members and Members are registered, for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you. The discussion of this point and the press ends here. And we'll move on. I would also like to state for the record and apologise that I have not been fully correct in voting on changes to the programme, but I hope that I have done so in accordance with the agreement of the club presidents, so there will be no regret for the future. Now I'm opening a point.
