ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u1	295. Final version of the European Commission audit report on conflicts of interest I ask that the plaintiff of this point, Mr Ivan Bartoš, take the floor. And President Bartoš, if he agrees, I will also ask him to then become rapporteur for this point. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, thank you for the floor. I have to rearrange a little, because I have been preparing here for an interpellation that Mr. Zaorálek has easily debugged for me. Very well. I wanted to thank you for having succeeded in putting this item at the House of Deputies meeting in the House of Deputies. This point concerns the absolutely fundamental situation in which the final conclusions of the European Commission's audit on the conflict of interest, which concerns the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and the functioning of the subsidy policy, when the Prime Minister, who was advised by his lawyers, placed all his active firms under the holding under the trust fund, which is therefore managed by the people he has chosen there, and at that moment did not comply with the conclusions of European audits or the Czech law on conflict of interest, nor with the tightening financial regulation of the European Union against conflict of interest. I think that this subject, so that we can discuss it here in the House, so that individual Members can also ask questions, is very important. This topic has been on the table at least from the point of view of the pirát for over a year. We have warned individual ministries that are responsible for European subsidies, but also for writing public contracts or providing investment incentives that they can act in violation of Czech law and European legislation at the moment. We also received various expressions from ministries here in the Chamber of Deputies, whoever was there at the time, mostly at the end of the statement was that it was such an interpretation that had no legal obligation. I have to say that I am in my position, and I am doing this with the analytical team, unfortunately we have to do this, so I have not noticed a single binding legal statement where an expert on European law would actually sign that this is not the case from the outset. So what is new after the Czech Republic's mouth to Secretary Dostálová contradicted each line in the previous report, the preliminary report that came to the public, and thank you for that, because I believe it was in the public interest. The European Commission and its audit authorities have completed this audit and sent a final report. Since there were a number of reservations, the final report swelled, it has about 300 pages. It's at the Ministry's disposal. Madam Secretary, I suppose. Dostálová already read more than the accompanying letter. The question remains, then, how will the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, who is very personally involved in this matter? How will the government of the Czech Republic, which should have clear measures to prevent the payment of European subsidies, project planning, but also investment incentives and public procurement, from acting against the law, in order to make this report public? We have already sent questions to the European Commission, which is the role of the word confidential in relation to the public interest, actually the non-publicity of the report, whether it is really such a specific audit, or a standard designation of a similar document, which contains details such as information which, by its very nature, cannot be public. It could be personal data or contacts or something. We also asked the European Ombudsman, Emila O ´reilla, who, historically speaking, also in connection with Mrs Jourová's actions, with some statements, oversees the impartiality of the solution. The European Commissioner in her decision of 23. 7. 2019, which covered the preliminary report, spoke in the sense that there is a very strong public interest, that it is not an audit of an entity that drew money and is evaluating, which is a standard process, if it was okay, if the project was well implemented, well reported, but concerns the government of the Czech Republic, the whole system and the Prime Minister. If you're watching the media, part of the audit's already leaked back to the public. You can see that it confirms the conclusions of the preliminary audit that Prime Minister Babiš is indeed a person who controls Agrofert and is in conflict of interest both from the perspective of the European Financial Regulation and from the point of view of the Czech law. Even, and this is the thing that I saw in the media this morning, there is, for example, talk about the European Commission's assessment of the setting up and functioning of trust funds as entirely purposeful, contrary not only to good morals but also to the purpose, purpose of the law on conflicts of interest and distorting public order. That's the kind of information that's in the audit. There is talk of total corrections in hundreds of millions. I'm also interested in how the government is going to deal with this. I did not have the opportunity to discuss in detail in my interview with the Minister how the money was needed, whether the companies were willing to provide this money, who would therefore bear these costs, whether the Czech Republic and the like. In the opening words, I will not dwell on this. I know there are many speakers here. I wanted to thank the parties, both the pirát, but ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. We have formulated some resolutions together, which, I think, are based on the logic of the matter and what was mentioned here, for example, in the Prime Minister's speech, that our aim is really to defend the interests of the Czech Republic, defend the interests of Czech companies, which, of course, benefit from European subsidies and draw them in accordance with the Czech law and with European legislation. I am merely stating that this resolution, which is aimed at the most fundamental problematic areas, such as the cessation of payment of money to companies that are under the holding at this time, but also the resolution of the conflict of interests of Mr Babiš, will be presented at the later part of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u3	I thank Mr Bartoš, who is the applicant and has taken up the role of rapporteur on this point at the same time. I am initiating a general debate. I am the first person entered into the general debate with priority rights, so I will ask the Vice-President to represent me in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u4	Good morning. Then I noted the application of Vice-President Fiala of the SPD. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I will not be performing for too long. We are not lawyers here, we are not auditors, we are not judges, but we are politicians and we are dealing with the Prime Minister's political problem. The problem exists, our duty is to solve the problem and solve it. What does the problem look like? I think you all know that. The Prime Minister - by the way, since yesterday again in the position of the accused person - has been officially and definitively designated as a person in conflict of interest by the European Commission's authorities, and this also results from the illegal drawing of subsidies for his companies, and thus are - and this is also essential, and this is perhaps the most important - at risk of taxpayers' money at an amount that is in order somewhere around CZK several hundred million. There's no way we can close our eyes before that. We cannot allow it to be that citizens will put hundreds of millions of crowns on the Prime Minister's business, that citizens will contribute hundreds of millions of crowns to the operation and profits of its companies. I think it is more correct, and I hope that we agree that the Prime Minister's empire will return undue subsidies to Czech taxpayers. Before I get to the point of achieving this, how do we all agree on how to achieve it, how to secure it, I want to ask you, at this point, that each of you will answer a simple question: Would you consider something like this happening around the Prime Minister as representative or admissible to the Prime Minister five or ten years ago? I will repeat the question: Would it be possible five or ten years ago for the Prime Minister to be a criminally prosecuted person whose own company draws national or European subsidies? And now, on purpose, I say, whose company draws European subsidies, not that it draws unfairly, but that it draws at such an amount of European subsidies at all. I'm not forcing you to answer that right now, I'm gonna give you time to think about it, I'm gonna go back to the question. Now specifically, ladies and gentlemen, we have two challenges, two problems that we have and we have to solve. The one problem, one challenge, is protecting the interests and money of Czech taxpayers. We are talking about the sum - she may be more precise, but at least as far as it penetrates the public - 450 million crowns that the government has chosen from the people and has sent them to the Prime Minister's companies in the belief that they will eventually be paid for by European subsidies. But, as it turns out, there's no way to cash it out of those European subsidies. And the Prime Minister here can lie, he can lie, he can make up, he can downplay the seriousness of the situation, but somebody just put those hundreds of millions on account, and they were companies from the Prime Minister's empire, and somewhere those hundreds of millions came into that account, and we don't even have to think too hard from where. The money came from national sources, and it turns out that it will not be European money. Therefore, the first thing we should commit the government to and help resolve the situation is for the government to ensure and guarantee through its actions that the consequences of the European Commission's audit on the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister will not be borne by Czech taxpayers, but that the unduly drawn subsidies will be enforced from the companies that benefited from these subsidies. That has to be clear. We as the Chamber of Deputies, which has responsibility, should have clear guarantees from the government, and we should enforce these guarantees. The second problem, the second challenge, is this: how to prevent the doubts that simply arise and logically arise, and therefore also the suspicion that the government and its subordinate authorities will not act in negotiations with the European Commission and in dealing with the consequences of final audits, that they will not act completely correctly, but will act in the interests of the Prime Minister, not in the interests of the Czech Republic. We therefore propose that these doubts cannot arise and that we have the whole process under control, to set up a temporary commission of the Chamber of Deputies to control the conclusions of the European Commission's audit on the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, because otherwise there will be doubts that will be clear and understandable, because not only the Prime Minister's Office, but the government has a huge influence and power of the YES movement, which is closely linked to the Prime Minister's business, as it turns out. And this is about hundreds of millions of crowns, it is simply a great temptation, and the Chamber of Deputies Commission should, could, have control over the process and prevent such suspicions from arising. These are, ladies and gentlemen, two measures, decisions that we should make as the Chamber of Deputies to protect the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic from the personal interests of the Prime Minister, because, and I don't have to tell you that, in this case, the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic and the interests of the Prime Minister are clearly contradictory. I would say that they are incompatible with the question of who finally finds the black Peter worth several hundred million crowns. Whether it will be citizens of the Czech Republic, their personal accounts, their wallets, or whether it will be the Prime Minister's corporate accounts. And in our interest it must be, and it is our duty, regardless of political conviction and party jurisdiction, so that money, the wallet of Czech taxpayers do not touch it. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I will return briefly to the question that I asked you five or ten years ago, whether the Prime Minister could have been the person who is criminally prosecuted, the person whose own company draws European subsidies - not unduly drawing, that is another thing at all - and whether it was possible for the companies of that person to live from the subsidies of hundreds of millions of crowns, which this person actually negotiates from the position of Prime Minister. Can you imagine such a thing being possible five or ten years ago? If you're honest with each other, then each one of you in this room must have the same answer. Such an idea would be completely absurd. And even a few years ago, you would have laughed at such a question regardless of your political convictions and responsibilities. It would be completely unimaginable, and it would be clear to everyone. First of all, it would be clear to the Prime Minister or Prime Minister. That would not be a question of arguments for and against, no one would examine that. It would just be over the edge, it would be completely unimaginable and unacceptable. I'm not going to investigate why this isn't the case today, why it suddenly seems possible today, and for some of you, it seems like something normal. But the rest of us don't want to get used to the fact that it's normal today, that it's admissible, that it's imaginable. It just isn't! [[11.20 hours]] And I want to take this opportunity to call on the government parties again, in this case primarily the ANO movement and especially the Czech Social Democratic Party, to stop sticking your head in the sand and to get a little bit moving and do something. And you have a chance to do something. In this situation, unimaginable a few years ago, absurd a few years ago and today, the only right solution is for someone else to be Prime Minister. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, directed by the ANO movement and its coalition partners. On behalf of the ODS, we say we have no ambition to join the government other than after the parliamentary elections. And of course we can count. And, of course, we see the will of the YES movement, the ČSSD, the KSČM to continue with left-wing politics and this government. That's all clear to us. Therefore, we say, act as logically as it is in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, because simply the Prime Minister, who is criminally prosecuted, whose companies are illegally drawing funds, is a person who cannot perform his duties for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic, and you have the opportunity to deal with it, replace him with another ANO person and continue with the government. And for us I say, we can imagine such an exchange quickly and without any problems, we will not put any procedural or other obstacles to it. Citizens see what's happening, and if you don't ask yourself questions about it, they're undoubtedly asking them. And they wonder whether they should agree to this and whether they agree to be the Prime Minister's person who built and operates his business on European subsidies and who draws it wrongly. Whether the citizens agree to make up and send their own money directly to the Prime Minister's account of hundreds of millions of crowns. Whether they continue to consider it possible for the Prime Minister to be a person who is still criminally prosecuted in accordance with European subsidies. These are three fundamental, but basically very simple questions that citizens ask themselves and which you have to ask yourself too, we have to ask ourselves, and to which not only the YES movement should answer today, but also, of course, the KSČM and especially the ČSSD. It is your responsibility before which you cannot put your head in the sand. Ladies and gentlemen, at least the minimum you can do today is to support our proposals, to support the two measures that I have mentioned here, and this is to bind the Czech Government as the Chamber of Deputies to guarantee that Czech taxpayers will not pay unduly granted subsidies, according to the final version of the European Commission's audit on the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, and the second thing I have also mentioned is that we will set up a temporary Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Government Control in addressing the conclusions of the audit of the European Commission on the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, so that there is no doubt that the government, the relevant ministries are addressing the consequences of the audit not in accordance with the personal interests of the Prime Minister and his companies, but in line with the interests of the Czech citizens. These are not sufficient measures. I believe that a sufficient measure would be only if the Prime Minister had been replaced with the problems he has, by someone else, but if you support at least these points, we could take a step towards dealing with the consequences of unauthorized drawing and the consequences of those audits of the European Commission as the Czech Republic with certainty so that they do not fall on Czech citizens and their wallets. I thank all of you who support our proposals in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u6	Thank you, too. This was therefore with priority the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies for the ODS, Petr Fiala. Now, I presume, with priority rights... Mr Plzák is now reporting with a factual remark, then I have with priority the President of the SPD Radim Fiala, then the President of the ANO Faltýnek Club, then Minister Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, good morning. Really a point of fact. Vice-President of the House through Mr President, you said at the beginning that we are no judges. So how can we encourage some House Commission to interpret Czech laws and decide whether or not the Prime Minister is in conflict of interest under our laws? And what court here gave a court ruling that the Prime Minister was in conflict of interest? Which court said the Prime Minister broke the conflict of interest law? None. Until such a decision is made here, the Prime Minister cannot be in conflict of interest to anyone. Don't be mad at me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u8	Thank you. President Bartoš, with a point of order, followed by President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u9	How beautiful we should be if people who report with a point of fact listened to the previous speakers that they said. There's no court committee here. It is a temporary commission that has - and I do not now have the stenograph, I sit here, so I will paraphrase President Fiala - to see that the Ministry that the government of the Czech Republic will settle this final audit, where the corrections are fully, where it is said that we will not receive the money in the next period, that it will settle it in the interests of the Czech Republic, and not in the interests of Andrej Babiš. The committee is to oversee the correctness of the procedure. So far everything's been going undercover, Secretary Dostálová has been working out, one line at a time, one line at a time, the Commission has taken it that way, she said, every one of your lines is nonsense that you've written here. Those corrections will go at 100%, at least that came back from the media. So it's obvious that the first phase, we're going to turn it around in some way, it's not working. And I am very worried whether the Prime Minister will come to terms with this, and I do not know if Minister Dostálová, too, has spoken to the media that, in the interests of the Czech Republic, we will go to trial with the European Commission for these corrections. Well, they're in our next show. the period will not give, we will eventually pay them anyway, because the European Commission wins the litigation, and here it would win them quite rightly, and the European Commission really is the authority that interprets the European Financial Regulation and which also interprets whether the Czech law is violated. So the established commission is supposed to go in a direction that disproves the bias that we see here in the statements of the various ministers who are under Andrej Babiš, even the non-transparable negotiations, and that is to say that it is in their interest to fool the citizens of the Czech Republic. He's not. If we do not recover the money from those who have drawn it unjustly, contrary to the rules, then citizens will pay it from national sources, hence from their taxes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u10	Sorry, time, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. President Stanjura with a factual remark, then Mr Foldyna with a factual remark. Then there will be priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u11	I'm sorry, but I think we have to call things real names. Mr Plzák, and now I do not address him, so I do not know if he is lying through. What he said is a lie! We didn't design anything like that! Then don't lie, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Or maybe you'll find somewhere in that steno recording at our public appearances that we want to judge whether Andrej Babiš is in conflict or not. We don't want anything like that. I'm clear. You're surprised? Remember the expression by Andrej Babiš, who said x-times, of course I'm in conflict of interest every day, 24 hours a day. Read and listen to the President's words when the opposition listens to him. And don't lie here, and don't fight anything. President Bartoš explained to you: how are we to believe that the Government's actions will be in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic in this particular case? None of them have read it, and they've been screaming since the first second, how wrong it is. Isn't that weird? [[Very strongly:]] I didn't read it, but I don't agree with it! I didn't read it, but there's nonsense! I didn't read it, but we're gonna sue! And I ask what the same people would say if they didn't read it and at the same time knew that the European Commission had said, the preliminary audit was wrong. You see, even Brusel confirmed it, and the opposition has been causing trouble here for years. And they'd say we haven't read it. So please don't lie, Mr. Ambassador. Criticize us for what we want, what we say, what we propose, how we vote, that's perfectly fine. Don't make up lies that make you feel like you're fighting. Or read it, and if you don't understand the text, I'm prepared to explain it to you in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u12	Thank you. Mr. Foldyna, then Mr. Plzák and Mr. Feranc's factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u13	Hello. I didn't come here to defend Andrej Babiš, that's Andrej Babiš's business and the ANO movement. I was just surprised to hear in the speech by the President of the Civil Democrats that five or ten years ago, we couldn't have imagined having a prime minister prosecuted. Well, I didn't imagine years ago that a squad would invade the Prime Minister's Office, raid a rabbi that his girlfriend was taking luxury gifts for services, bringing security into private affairs. You're talking - I'm sorry, I don't know how to do this right now, if I should ask the President how to talk to him, but you're talking -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u14	Speak to me through the President. That is perfectly fine, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u15	I'm talking to you through you. You're talking like you're representing some new political party that was created yesterday, which no one knows, which has no history at all. The history you're describing here today as the present, you've lived it and forced us, citizens of the Czech Republic, to live it with you. So don't make a saint of yourself here. Call your Mr. Novotný, who's sticking his fat ass to the citizens. You're the political party I should be ashamed of! Thank you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u16	Mr Plzák, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u17	Thank you, for the last time today. Through the President, Mr Stanjur, I have not told a lie. I may have misunderstood what my previous speaker said, but I didn't tell a lie. That's not true. That's one thing. Second thing. You said very well - no one saw it, and we're talking about it here, and that's why we have a special point. So that seems unacceptable to me, unacceptable to me. When it's on the table here, when it's published, yes, of course, let's talk about it, let's talk about the details. And a fellow pirate Bartoš through Mr President. You're saying that we're supposed to make a committee to see that it's handled flawlessly or well, I understand that. We're supposed to keep an eye on the clerks when even the minister can't keep an eye on them? Don't be mad at me, but that also seems unacceptable to me. Explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u18	Mr Feranec, with a factual remark, followed by a factual remark by President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, he's actually already said that to a colleague of Plzák, but I'm gonna do it again. What we read -- didn't read. Yes, we're dealing with the point, the final wording, I didn't read it, but maybe they're here - I suppose no one's read it, but maybe they're more equal here, maybe fellow pirates have read it. [[unintelligible]] If not, if not, then it seems to me, here we can have fun and argue about what Mrs. Columbová looks like. And there will be a million opinions. And since no one has seen her, so. [[unintelligible]] That's the first point. Second comment on the committee. It's okay. I'm just asking, what did we adopt the service bill for? Why did we accept him? So that politicians - and all of us sitting here, we're politicians - tell those officials what to do to keep an eye on them? Then it's okay, okay. But first, make a proposal before setting up a commission and under the same statute that the Service Act is repealed. Then it would be fair. Prepare such a law, present it, then it will be fair, the procedure will be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u20	Thank you. The factual remarks of the Presidents of Kalousek, Stanjura and Bartoš follow in this order. President Kalousek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u21	Thank you for the floor. Two notes on the speeches of the previous speakers. Mr Foldyna reminded the past how much you like to do when you do not want to talk about the future, where we should go first. These things were really happening at the Office of the Government. And the moment they burst, the Prime Minister resigned within three days, because at that time, some political culture was still in force. In three days. We're facing much bigger dung today, and the Prime Minister says never give up, and you're keeping him in it. That's the big difference. You know, if the Prime Minister resigned today, I'd say yes, we're even. But you completely cynical, you completely cynically disrespect the political culture that has been here for 20 years. That's the first note. Note two to the committee. Of course, we have a service law, but it also applies in our constitutional system that the executives are accountable to the Chamber of Deputies. And he's under political control. The Minister is to oversee its impartial performance and we are to supervise the ministers' proper work. At a time when there is more than reasonable suspicion that there is a huge conflict of interest, where the head of the executive and his officials and his ministers are not working for the interest of the Czech Republic, but for the interest of Agrofert, then there is nothing left for the Chamber of Deputies but to try to ensure that supervision of the impartial exercise of its powers is ensured. It's exactly in the spirit of our constitutional system. I don't know why the constitutional law should be repealed. It's just that the House can't resign from its control role over the government, because it has that audit role from the Constitution, and if it doesn't want to do it, it just doesn't do its constitutional work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u22	Thank you. President Stanjura with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u23	So, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am responding to Mr Feranc's speech. The point is called, or the proposal is a motion to set up a House of Governments commission! Governments, not officials. First of all. Second, don't blame us. Minister Dostálová continued on Monday, part of Tuesday exactly in the spirit of the famous statement of the former Socialist Hungarian Prime Minister - I lied in the morning, I lied at noon, I lied in the afternoon, I lied in the evening, I lied all day. All Monday we've heard from Madam Secretary about how this report isn't final! And we're supposed to trust her? We are to believe that the government in which there are such ministers, who lie so openly, will proceed correctly and in the interests of Czech taxpayers? That is why we wanted to and we will therefore propose the establishment of a parliamentary committee to control the Government's actions. How are those independent officials supposed to explain the words of Minister Brabec, Minister Dostálová - every page is wrong there, all nonsense. Obviously, you already know, we don't. You obviously failed with the argument. Because if that report cleared Andrej Babiš, I think we've already had eight press conferences of the ANO movement, at which you keep telling us. So I'm based on how you react - hysterically, lyingly, etc. That is why we propose that the Chamber of Deputies fulfil its supervisory function towards the government. So this way, when we propose the resolution to set up the commission, it's the control of the government's actions, not the officials, don't bring them here, we don't care about them, we don't fight politically. We're fighting this political battle with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u24	Thank you. President Bartoš, a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u25	I would also like to respond briefly to my colleague Feranc. I believe that the equipment of a 21st century person, and especially of a Member, should be information literacy. I haven't seen the report, but I'm working with information and the media, and this last fingernail that you're holding onto, that nobody's seen the report yet, it seems like total nonsense to me. So when the report is public, it's already been held by several journals, so how will your arguments change? That's how we confirm what we're saying here. And this whole discussion is the report that saw it, who read it, it's completely irrelevant. After all, in this resolution that I will propose, the Government's request to address the European Commission, to which you will ask a question, is that what I said in the introduction, whether the public interest is fulfilled, which I assume it is, this report can be made public. There's a confidential inscription, but we think it would be there, even if it was a farmer somewhere, because there's data. [[11.40 hours]] And the committee. I think that control is absolutely desirable. And if there's a service bill that the government has adjusted so that uncomfortable people can just throw away in a very fast way, then I'm just gonna say two things. One. The only cooperating body was SZIF, with which we could also discuss in the Senate field, and the Senate Commission, the topics of payment of subsidies under SZIF and the person who entered this discussion was to leave during the week for proxy reasons. It's a service law. Minister Dostálová, I apologize that I have to quote her so many times today, a minister who is supposed to oversee the impartiality of the audit settlement, and therefore does not read it so that it can be impartial, so the first reaction of her, and I know before the Marek Prchal or who writes it, process it into the media, was: "We will contradict every single line." I've never heard a bigger message from a person who hasn't read the document and doesn't affect his employees. The Prime Minister did the same thing. That's the conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u26	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, time. Thank you. It is now the turn of Members' speeches with priority rights. Just to be clear what the order will be, I will inform you that President Radim Fiala will appear first, then President Faltýnek, then Minister Dostálová and then President Bartošek will be signed in. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u27	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I've made a few remarks here, but what I wanted to say, we've already had a fight here, but I'm going to say it once more as my opinion and partly as the SPD movement. The title of this item is the final version of the European Commission's audit report on conflicts of interest. That's what we've been talking about all along. I know that Mr. pirát Bartoš said that we are informatively illiterate, but I would like to see the report and read it to see what we can say. Anyway, I don't want to throw it all down on the fact that I haven't read it, and I'm gonna get to it. What I can clearly say is that the SPD movement is for publishing this report - first of all. Secondly, we want a full investigation into this matter so that we know where we stand, and we could talk about the final relevant issues and reasons. Three. We are willing and will be happy to vote immediately to ensure that if there is damage, any damage, the government has ensured that it will not be paid by taxpayers. This means that we take this report, which we have not read, which we know from the media and which we are talking about, very seriously. It can really mean a problem, but it doesn't have to. But if so, we say that if there is damage, it cannot be paid by taxpayers. I'll go back to the beginning of what the current situation is. We do not know the report, and I was about to ask President Bartoš, through the President of the pirát, whether he has the report, so whether he would lend it to us or give it to us because the members of the SPD are saying: Mr President, today the final version of the audit report will be discussed and we would like to comment on it, so what is in the report? So you think I'm supposed to tell them that we're all informatively illiterate. In this case, I think the pirát and the Demoblock are faster than the jet, because no one has the message. I will comment on the European Commission, and now I will speak for myself. You know, I would like the report to be evaluated by the Czech authorities, Czech ministries, Czech courts, Czech police, Czech prosecutors, because we, as a SPD movement, have no confidence in the European Commission. We have no confidence. The European Commission is persecuting politicians who just don't fit it, who don't need it, who do, and we have our experience with it. In France, for example, Marine Le Penová, in Italy, Matteo Salvini, who were accused, and then cleared by the court, of various political cases and so on. So we would like to be able to comment on the decisions of the Czech institutions and authorities. And if I may say very briefly in conclusion, the SPD will vote to avoid damage. We're going to try to take this information that we don't have yet based on black and white so there won't be any problem and some damage, but that's probably all there is to a report that no one has read and no one has seen, I can tell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u28	Thank you. The following will be factual remarks. President Bartoš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u29	I'm just gonna react real quick. I didn't call anyone informatively illiterate. It's obvious everyone's watching where the message gets away. I've seen the diary before, and I just don't know if it's gonna ovlivnit the message. When Mr Babiš here called on Zdeněk Hřib to publish it, Zdeněk Hřib is not the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. The meeting took place at the Prague City Hall. The pirates don't have this material, they haven't been given to me, they've had a legal analysis, they're asking the European Commission. So if Mr. Babiš is calling on someone, it is enough for him to say to the Minister dostál: make this public. So I'd just like to deny that we're operating here, the pirát or any of the other parties to the opposition, the final version of the report. Gradual information has been released in the media for several days. There are diaries that have this message. And the fact that someone here on the CCTV camera says that he doesn't really care that he can't get the information, either he doesn't want to get it or he's not telling the truth. So just about this document. And once again, part of the motion for a resolution is, among other things, a request that the government this simple ping-pong towards the European Commission, if it thinks that this is the way, and it also wants to make it public for this ping-pong to do, asked if it is in the public interest to publish it. It's that simple. Meanwhile, we have the European Union's Ombudsman's statement that this is an important public interest and that report may be out in full - 270 pages. I think there's gotta be some anonymous information, there's gonna be company data, which, by their nature, aren't completely public, which, of course, means some work, but let's not pretend that no one has seen it, no one has read it. Pirates don't have any extra information, we don't even have it from Zdeněk Hřib. Besides, he said it on Czech TV today, I'm not quoting him here. Again, anyone watching the news can immediately find that information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u30	Thank you. A real comment by President Pekarová Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u31	Thank you for the floor. Actually, I'm just gonna pick up the previous speaker. He has spread such a mischief to us in connection with this point - making a fool of himself, making a fool of himself and of others, and therefore also of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Please, let us not focus here on whether the report is available or is not at the moment when one of the items of the resolution is precisely a request for its publication. If the government, if the government, if all those who really care, were really interested in making this report public, could already be published long ago, and if you really do have it and you have doubts whether it can be published because of some confidential information contained in it, then everything has its own solution. All you have to do is ask the European Commission to give such permission. But that would have to be will. And where there's a will, there's a way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u32	Thank you. Mr Nacher's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u33	Good morning. I'd like to correct what Mr. Bartoš, the chairman of the pirate party, said. I sat on that board, I was, and he turned that audit report into such a business item. That's not true what you said here. The mayor has it at his disposal and only made it available to the councilman for the pirate party. And the Councillors for TOP 09 complained that they didn't get it. That's what happened. Check it out. Even the fight went to a press conference. In other words, for me, even though I was only a listener, I did not interfere, the content is completely irrelevant, there was a business article, who was holding it in hand, who would ride with it to Brussels, who would publish it, because even the councillors didn't get it. He even got it, I have a feeling, an assistant, and even got it by the law firm that did an analysis that confirmed that it could not be published, that it had to be sent a question to the European Commission. Then I'm sure there'll be an opportunity, a colleague here will definitely respond, so I'll be happy to read it. So please, if you didn't treat it that way, that means you're gonna give it to someone, not someone, because you have the exclusive, then maybe at that point the reactions would be different. But for me, it relativizes the real honest effort to find out where the truth is and where it isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u34	Thank you. Mr Michálek's point of view follows. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So we're here to discuss the government's 250 million-dollar shit, and instead, there's a million excuses, boots, smoke screens. Yeah, I get it. Probably practices taken from some aesthetic past. [[ANO Members are humming and banging in the benches.]] And the way in which the Minister for Regional Development is expressing himself on this crucial document, he will say on iDNES.cz I don't know what the document says, and I don't care - that's what the person who is paid to take care of it is supposed to implement the recommendations that the European Commission sends here because European money is badly used. I don't know what you're doing there, Madam Secretary, but I think you're doing it wrong. [[The entertainment in the government bench and in the benches of the ANO Members.]] We acted at the Prague City Hall in accordance with the law. This is the difference between the pirát, the TOP 09, Prague to themselves at the Prague City Hall, who complied with the law, followed the European Union's regulation and, contrary to what Prime Minister Babiš urged them to do, so they proceeded legally and sent a letter to Brussels earlier because they had an obligation to consult with the European Union. So that's how it's done in accordance with the law. Look at this and learn it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u36	Mr Nacher's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u37	It'll kill me from the left bank to the right one day. [[Fun in the hall.]] But it wasn't like that either, Mr. Colleague. It wasn't like that. The first person who wanted to publish it was Mr. Mayor Hřib. He said he wanted to make it public. And he did it again today. The only - the only - in which the qualitative change is, is that he said he would continue to insist on publication, but after sending a question to the European Commission. That's not how it sounded on Monday I saw and heard. That means the first was that the mayor said he wanted to publish it. And then there was a logical reaction from the Prime Minister, so make it public. Only then did the analysis come up, which clearly said... By the way, now I'm gonna look away from why the Legos Department didn't do the analysis, why an external law firm had to do it, so everyone can figure that out. But that was the procedure. That's the chronology. So please, since we're urging you to be precise here, just follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u38	A factual remark by President Vojtěch Filip, then with a factual remark by President Ivan Bartoš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u39	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, we have finally worked out something that even the pirát, when they understand that this would be published and would lead to criminal prosecution, would rather write a letter to Brussels. So it's simple. So we're gonna wait until it's public, and we're gonna talk about it when we read it. That's no excuse. I'm more asking, if we're going to do something, we have to do something here as a legislature and as a body that is the government's supervisory authority. I agree with Miroslav Kalousek. And if that is what we are to do, then we need to think about whether anyone blames us for the conflict of interest law adopted by the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term. Well, yeah, if there's something we're supposed to redo, let's redo it. And if anyone doesn't like the things that are in the Civil Code - trust funds, then let's redo them. That is our right and our duty. I did not vote for the Civil Code, for the horror that Jiří Pospíšil presented as Minister of Justice at the time, because something as terrible as the Czech Republic, such as the current Civil Code, has not been here for a long time. What a mess. And now we're talking about the fact that trust funds aren't enough. Well, come take a look at it and we'll redo it. Because it's not a matter of one conflict of interest. This is a matter of what laws we have, if they correspond to what we need, so that people who perform public functions do not get into such conflicts of interest. So if we're gonna change the legislation, let's change it. But it has to be after some analysis of where we're supposed to go, not to politically push our shirts here. Please, let's calm down and work like we're supposed to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u40	President Ivan Bartoš, then Mr Dominik Feri and President Kalousek - factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u41	In short, I would have responded to Mr Nacher. If I got that message, I'd be some kind of organ, like Prague got it like that place, I'd publish it. I've read the definition of public interest. I have the Ombudsman's statement on the previous report in my hand. My decision as Ivan Bartoš would be to make it public. I have the will. After all, the SPD also says that we should want the government to publish it. So here, between what one wants to do and what a person in the position of performing his duties can do and what possible risks it carries, which we have examined by legal analysis, what legal steps we have to take to make Prague, in contrast to the position of Prime Minister from the European Union and the European Commission, a credible partner in communication, we have come out of the need to ask the European Commission if there is a public interest that we can use. That's the first thing. And the other thing about President Filip. I totally agree with that. Let's talk about legal changes, law changes. We have two more years in this composition of the Chamber of Deputies. However, we are in a situation where, according to the conclusions of the final audit of the European Commission, we have a situation which does not correspond to Czech law to the European Financial Regulation. And we cannot remain in this state. That's what we need to figure out now. Whether we then propose some changes to the laws that will regulate it in the future, you know how long the law passes through the House, year, year and a half, even if it is consensual. So now we've got some kind of situation final after a year of pulling, and that's what we need to figure out. And that's what we're trying to do today. That is why I think that, for example, the steps and even the resolution, I hope that KSČM will also propose something, we will just discuss it here, because now we are dealing with an acute situation, even if the point was included outside the programme, it appeared in a moment, it was necessary when the audits came and the entire House voted in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u42	Mr Feri, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the Government and dear friends of colleagues from the YES movement, I have a bad report for you that may be stupid, because you will no longer be able to make excuses. During your performances, I received a note that journalists from Diary N have already published the entire audit, and you can look at it. So please read it. Finally, let's solve the right question, the point is that it just hurts us, that there are articles all over the world about the fact that our Prime Minister has another problem - I apologize to colleagues present. And the only excuse you can use is that it's in English. But I believe that such a competent movement will have no problem creating a translation at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u44	Thank you. President Kalousek, with a factual remark, will then follow the factual remarks made by Mr Plzák and Mr Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u45	Thank you for the floor. One thing is an argument about publication or non-publication. I don't think that's the most important thing. This is essential to our constitutional role, which is the control of the government. President Filip said it's our job to change the law. Yeah. That's the role of the legislature. But then the role of control. And we are in a situation where we know, and I remind you that three quarters of a year ago, I said from this place that no country has ever been able to turn the audit authority's proposal into a 100% correction, and of course we won't, we know that we're facing hundreds of million-dollar corrections, that this is a mess with our Prime Minister. And our concern should be to minimize, not maximize, the damage that will undoubtedly occur. And that should be the task of the Chamber of Deputies to see to it that the damage is minimized. But you'd have to just admit the conclusions that are clear that there are hundreds of millions of corrections. But you don't have the guts to do that. You squirm and twist like rascals who smashed a window, but it looks like the window's in one piece and it's not broken. We're not getting anywhere like this. We will not defend the real interests of the Czech Republic this way, and we risk the attorneys of Agrofert, not representatives of the Czech Republic, speaking for the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u46	Thank you. Mr Plzák, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u47	Thank you. After the emotional performance of the previous speaker, I calmed down, I applied for a factual comment on my colleague Ferim. Mr President, I do not know what the Journal of N is. I'm not reading it, I'm not reading it. And if we're going to be dealing with a point here, I'm expecting to have some background on it, not that something came up in the paper somewhere. Where did we go? And that's one thing, Jesus, maybe it's true, but I think we should all follow it. And the second thing, public interest has been mentioned here. Mr Bartoš, through Mr President, you have not been here in the last parliamentary term. Here, everyone has often operated on this term, but it is nowhere defined in legislation! We were talking to a fellow Chvojka here, he read it to me from some Wikipedia. You're saying that's what the Ombudswoman says. And who gives the ombudsman the right to interpret what is public interest? When it's in the legislation, when we get the right reference, then we can talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u48	Have a nice noon and now, with a factual remark, the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will speak and prepare Mr Dominik Feri. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u49	Thank you. One more performance, I'm sorry I'm stepping in again. Yes, I know what correction is. I was in Luxembourg when I chaired the Supervisory Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, and I dealt with both Olaf and the European Court of Auditors. And the President of the European Court of Auditors told me frankly whether I think the European Commission would believe the Czech Government - that was the government of Petr Nečas, Miroslav Kalousek and others - or whether it would believe the European Court of Auditors? The answer was simple: the European Court of Auditors. And we were dealing with the non-payment of 160 billion crowns back then! When I saw a table that concerned the Vltava waterway, and there wasn't a single green field, it was yellow, or it was all red, so of course it was a big mess. But we didn't discuss it in the way that we see here today. We discussed this in the manner that we called together the chairmen of the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies and talked about what we would do. We've changed the rules of control, we've changed the law on control, we've changed the law on financial control in public administration. And we didn't, and it's still not finished, the Supreme Audit Office Act, because we failed the Senate. Because the public control of public funds in municipalities and regions and funds was not wanted by the then government. That's the result! And today we're complaining about it? So let's take a look at it! All right, once the House press, this report, we will have it mentioned, I will be very happy to have a supervisory authority, whether it will be a monitoring committee or some temporary committee, is one thing, but we will certainly have a legislative task to change our regulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u50	Mr Dominik Feri will make another comment and will be prepared with another Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. And I have one more factual one here, and he's Mr. Marek Benda. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u51	Mr Plzák, through Mr President, you think I came here on a tricycle, don't you? You're making excuses for not reading it, for not being able to read it anywhere. I'll tell you a specific source here. The fact that you don't know a relatively relevant medium, that's your fault, I guess you're only informed by the party press. I'll tell you a specific source here. I'll even send you a link to read it, and you're making excuses? You've got to be kidding me! Next time, you'll be making excuses for what? That it's too long, that it's better to be a comic book, or that you can't even read?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u52	Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will now speak on the point of fact and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u53	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr President, I would also like to comment on Mr Plzák. So you're saying what the sources are, and it's not your chairman and prime minister who yelled at this place, "Here sits thieves!" Here sits thieves! [[Loud and strong.]] And if he even talks about who he is, let him say it, he didn't say it! He's saying that the traditional parties have stolen billions - so where is it? What sources does he come from? When it suits you, you blame others, but when it concerns you, you change the code of ethics. When it comes to you, you pretend it's all different. When it comes to you, you had nothing to do with it. It's hypocrisy. Then at least don't say what you're doing is right. Your chairman here and many others blamed people. I never told the Prime Minister that he was a thief or something. I honor the presumption of innocence. Unlike him! And so did he here using data that you refuse to use. So stop it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u54	I will now ask for a speech on the factual remark made by Mr Marek Benda. And I have one more application from Mr Pavel Plzák. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u55	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have also applied in response to Mr Plzák, but I would like to make one more comment. Why are we arguing about whether something came out or didn't work out at N-Daily? Why doesn't the government just tell us what's in the audit report? Why doesn't the government just tell us? I was expecting to start tonight's performance by someone speaking for the government and saying yes to us, in that audit report, and that's it, you're going to return so much and so much. We're gonna talk about how we're gonna minimize the damage. And it's not like the government is sitting here like a bunch of oukropky people who are ashamed of doing damage to Agrofert, and now they won't even admit it. And a second comment on Mr. Plzák's colleague. Public interest is never defined anywhere. That is why it is this type of general term. Because they have to be interpreted on a case-by-case basis. You can't write this and this is a public interest. We have a lot of general terms in our right. Public interest is mentioned in the Charter, in the Constitution, in a number of other regulations and must always be interpreted in a specific case and in a specific assessment of the facts for and against.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u56	Mr Pavel Plzák will now make his final application to the de facto Member. So Mr. Faltýnek will be ready later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u57	Thank you. For the last time today. A colleague of Bělobrádek. Please, my honourable colleague through the President, I have said two things: that I do not read the Journal N and that there is nowhere in the legislation defined the concept of public interest. And you're way out of line with what I said, this is where he started talking. I just didn't understand. If you're questioning that I don't read deník n, yes, we can talk about it. And if you're saying that public interest is defined somewhere, and legally, and now my colleague Benda has explained it to us, then we can talk about it, too. But I can't respond to what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u58	Now, the general debate. Standard applications. So the chairman of the club of the ANO movement Jaroslav Faltýnek will perform and prepare Mrs. Dostálová. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u59	Hooray. Good, yes, hurrah, finally, good morning, dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr Vice-President. I just hope that this debate will also take place at the Minister for Regional Development, as we said yesterday that she should have the main performance. I listened carefully to President Fiala's speech, which was composed, his speech, which he read, from the headlines. And I'd read something, too. I would like to read you the opinion of Commissioner Johannes Hahn on the Committee on Budgetary Control for Audit. I quote: we must follow the rules of the game as standard if we want the same thing from the Member States. I cannot comment on the content of the audit now. The final report was sent to the Czech Republic and it can now comment on it. However, the audit process is not closed; bilateral meetings of both parties may still take place. The conclusion of the whole process can be expected in the second half of 2020. Then it will be possible to publish the conclusions for the public. - This is a quote from Commissioner Johannes Hahn. [[12.10 hours]] You know, we were here at the turn of 2016/2017 approving the conflict of interest law and it is generally known that the club of the ANO movement was the only one and a few Members did not vote for this law at the time. We have filed a constitutional lawsuit that still lies at the Constitutional Court. I think even the President has filed a constitutional complaint, and I would have used it here in this context because I started commenting on President Fiala's speech, so I would have used his position from that time publicly known, published, and I read it at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting: "The law on conflict of interest addresses mainly the conflict of interests of Andrej Babiš. There's no reason not to admit it. The law of one man is not ideal, yet it is necessary." I'm not commenting on this position, I'm just quoting it here to revive memory. About the debate today at Prague City Hall and their press conference, I think we've had enough said here. I might say a few quotes from that press conference that some of us have been following. We know that pirát, respectively. The entire Prague Council confirmed what Minister Dostálová has been saying here since Monday and for what you've been cursing us all along or throbbing us, and that the audit is confidential and cannot be published because sanctions and fines would threaten the Czech Republic. This is simply a fact confirmed by the Council of the Capital City of Prague. But I don't want to comment on that. My performance is going somewhere else, colleagues, which is heading until 20 June 2011, when in the media, and I point out the date, 20 June 2011, published articles, many articles that the Ministry of Finance generously forgave billions of fines for abused subsidies. And I'll be happy to read you the article, one of them, because unfortunately my esteemed colleague Kalousek is not here, but I'm sure his colleagues will tell him. So. The Ministry of Finance is extremely generous in forgiving sanctions for abused subsidies. It was shown by the Supreme Audit Office's audit. Of 34.5 billion. The Ministry forgave 31.1 billion crowns. In addition, entrepreneurs do not have to return abused subsidies at all in a number of cases. Hospodářské noviny drew attention to the generosity of the Ministry. According to the newspaper, the State did not see another 2 billion out of the sanctions granted by the financial authorities for the abuse of subsidies. Although not forgiven by the state, the companies that were supposed to pay them failed. Of the billions owed almost to zero for the state. Of the tens of billions of crowns, the state managed to gain 1.5 billion between 2006 and 2009. CZK for revenue from the collected contributions and periodic penalty payments. Most of the time, however, he did not see the state budget either, because the SAO calculated that the State issued 1.2 billion for the same period only on the costs of managing the contributions. Crowns. The state forgave sanctions, but the SAO is silent. His address is forbidden by the law. The Ministry of Finance refused to publish a list of pardons and the conditions under which sanctions were forgiven. - He refused to publish! - The system is fine according to the spokesperson of the resort Ondřej Jakob. The efficiency of administration is sufficient, as it is necessary to take into account its preventive effect, said Jakob. But in the opposite opinion, they're controllers. The vice president of the SAO Miloslav Kala told Hospodářské noviny. The Ministry defends itself that most of the pardoned contributions are due to formal misconduct, not to misuse of the subsidy. A typical example is the failure of the deadline of the building's approval by one or two days or delay of delivery of one of the documents, etc., added Jakob. To whom specifically and when the State wanted money, but the Ministry does not state, it defends itself by being bound by secrecy. The subsidies were also left to defector Wolf. - I don't know who Wolf was and where he went, but according to the medial cases, Mr Wolf, for example, didn't have to pay the penalty. We found that after Wolf defected from ČSSD to the government camp and held the cabinet of Mirek Topolánek, his company UT 2002 did not have to return the multimillion dollar subsidy. According to the prosecution, UT 2002 abused the grant of 11 million. Crowns. The Ministry of Finance also left almost the entire subsidy of 1.8 to the entrepreneur Zdeněk Tomášek, who used the money for the construction of the rope centre etc. The financial office in Znojmo ordered the money to be refunded because the businessman, too. He withheld that he owed the state hundreds of thousands of dollars in taxes. - Atd. etc. I'm not gonna read the whole thing. There's, like, 20 cases. The Treasury has been proven aware of crimes. In writing, I pointed out Miroslav Kalousek himself - several times, but nothing has changed. The Minister did not take any corrective measures, said Mr. Josef Novotný, who pointed out the case. - And he was probably a coalition MP at the time. And so on. It's no use reading the whole thing, it's a lot. However, just to refresh the memory, when someone is constantly talking about junks and - I wrote it here somewhere - political culture, Mr President of Kalousek through Mr. President, political culture, so to refresh the memory that was not there at the time, and here almost none of us sat at that time, so the SAO checked sanctions imposed by the financial authorities from 1 January 2006 to 21 December 2009. Miroslav Kalousek - 9 January 2007 to 8 May 2009, Eduard Janota - 9 April 2009 to 13 July 2010, and then again Miroslav Kalousek. According to Hospodářské noviny until February 2008, the law did not regulate the grounds for the waiver of sanctions for the misuse of subsidies. The Ministry therefore followed its own classified directive. In 2008, the Law provided that the contributions to be assessed could be forgiven if there are reasons worthy of special consideration. What features must be given special consideration, this does not specify the law. So, fellow Members, so many small notes, as it has worked in the past, as it has worked in the past in some of our colleagues. Then a colleague here gave me a legal opinion on the possibility of publishing a European Commission document by Bold Bold advokát. This is, I think, even fresh, when the capital of Prague had it processed, where basically this law firm confirms what Patrik Nacher here said, that they do not recommend that they publish the audit unless the European Commission agrees. So that's just very briefly on my part. Unlike my colleague Bartoš, because I have my own experience here and he doesn't have it yet, but I think it awaits all of us who move in politics, because I have read those crushing headlines: Faltýnek will return twenty, whether it pays for the Faltýnek, it is folded, the Czech Republic will return twenty million or twenty million due to the conflict of the Faltýnek, or twenty-two. [[12.20 hours]] So I'm not feeling it anymore, and I don't really believe the headlines. So, not even what I read here from the quotes, and I'm sure my colleague Miroslav Kalousek will respond to that, so I'm not saying that it was all true. It's just from June 2011 from Hospodářské noviny and from other journals then. To what extent the information is relevant or not, I really can't judge. You all know that the Czech Television informed me that I was a member of the Board of the Farm Capi Nest, a.s. At the time, I asked Czech Television to look at the business records - that's 20 seconds. But nothing happened, no one cared, no one apologized, but it's common in politics. We politicians must have a higher threshold of sensitivity. And I have it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u60	I'll read a few apologies. So Mrs Monika Červíčková apologizes today between 16 and 18 o'clock for work reasons, Minister of Interior Hamáček apologizes from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for work reasons. Furthermore, Mr. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes from - [[The minister says he's already in the room.]] Yes, you were from 9 to 13, but you're already here, so you're canceling your apology now. Otherwise, I just wanted to say that Mr. Faltýnek's speech raised a number of factual points. So I'll recap. First, the Vice-President of the House Petr Fiala, Miroslav Kalousek, Ivan Bartoš, Pavel Bělobrádek, Bohuslav Svoboda and Tomáš Martínek. So, Vice-President, your two minutes. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I'll comment on the performance that Mr. Faltýnek here read. It doesn't bother me at all that you read it, it's sometimes faster and more consistent, but unlike me, you didn't even know what you were reading at the moment, which I think you could fix next time. Yes, Mr President, I call things the right names, so I also called the law that we adopted and which we actually adopted primarily because of or because of the Prime Minister's person. And I would like to remind you, however, of what you have not already said through Mr President, that we had to accept this law because you have changed the rules of the game and political culture, the unwritten rules of the game, and the Prime Minister has become a man who could never become Prime Minister before. And that's why we have this law here. It's okay. But, President Faltýnek, through Mr President, despite this law, there is a danger and there is a risk that Mr Babiš's business will be paid by Czech taxpayers. And that's the essence we're talking about here, and that's what we don't want and what we're trying to stop here. And yes, you are right that the consequences of the completed audit of the European Commission, the completed audit, the consequences, will be discussed by the Commission with the Czech Government, that is fine, that is. And we want these negotiations under the control of the Chamber of Deputies because we do not believe that the government will act in the interests of the Czech Republic, but we suspect that it could act in the interests of Agrofert or Andrej Babiš. That's the point of today's debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u62	The next one will be Mr. Miroslav Kalousek, your two minutes. The chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u63	So, I had no doubt that the refugee propaganda would come with some past, as it was in the past. I would like to assure you, through Mr PresidentFaltýnek that, to a large extent, this is how it works today. Of those 32 billion, 28 penalties were imposed on municipalities for a formal error of the type two days later, when the tax office was obliged, in addition to a 100% refund, to measure a 100% penalty. And there is indeed a directive discussed with both the Competition Authority and DG Competition of the European Union, under which circumstances this may be forgiven so as not to involve illegal public support. That it's not published, it's logical, because that would be a guide that anyone can give up on, because then someone will forgive him. Those explosive cells you read provoked about 27 criminal charges that year. All have been investigated and the law enforcement authorities have stated that everything has been perfectly legal, according to the law, and no one has been followed and treated in a fair way. Where the so-called remission of subsidies took place, it was inextricable to bankrupt entities. And therefore, I don't believe in some newspaper articles. But what I believe is the OLAF report, which clearly says about fraud. What I believe is the preliminary audit report, where 100% correction was made to the Czech Republic, and I have no doubt that this will happen for a second. We're just getting close to a waste. I assure you, we're getting close to damage. And our common goal should be to minimize the damage. But you're denying it, and you're pushing it in front of you, which makes the damage bigger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u64	The President of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš will now appear and Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will prepare himself. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u65	It always seems strange to me when someone jumps in on what the Prime Minister says - now Mr. Faltýnek did - and talks about the damage to the $30 billion budget. And he's quoting the lyrics. Well, I was supposed to have an interview with Secretary Schillerová, and Minister Dostálová's commenting on it. So either what Mr. Babiš says is true, which I don't think is true, Mr. Kalousek confirmed it here - the damage really wasn't in the amount of the corrections. Even in the answer I have from the Minister, it is said that between 2007 and 2013 and 2014 and 2020 24.5 billion were recovered from the financial correction of cohesion policy - there is still a difference of 11.9 billion. So I think we should at least match the notes so we don't say-- yeah, we're talking a few hundred million, a quarter of a billion, a half a billion, some damage to the conflict of interest, but you're here over the years -- because that's not true. So if there was any damage to the state budget of over 30 billion, then the answer from Minister Schillerová, the material that lies in the House, the answer to 106, and the information claimed by two ministries, is not true. Well, I'd need someone here to perform in this debate and take out this typical one for Andrej Babiš - I'm in some kind of trouble, but you are, you are, you are. I'm so glad I haven't had the experience of Mr. Faltýnek, because we haven't been here in the last term. So the YES movement can't keep throwing at us what we've done here, like it does to other parties here. However, even in the previous parliamentary term there was an YES movement at the Ministry of Finance. And the Ministry of Regional Development, including the Tesco system software contract, for which we have rightly received the fine from the European Union, so it was also under the leadership of the ANO movement. Please, let us focus on the current situation, because you are only causing confusion here, and it is not true that the Czech Republic would bail out 35 billion in those two periods.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u66	I will now ask Mr Pavel Bělobrádek to speak and Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will prepare himself. Please take your word for it, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u67	Thank you. Mr. Faltýnek, the engineer just left, at least like this. Well, if I'm not mistaken, I wasn't here at the time either, but Mr Wolf was a member of the ČSSD, in which Mr Faltýnek was at the time, so it is a bit sad that the party didn't even know the Members. And what was here to respond. The point is, you're saying that the content of the audit is unknown, and he already knows it, he's from public sources. If it says everything's okay, I believe you'll read it. And just as long as you've been in politics, you've been pointing out various cases, different situations, different topics, different conclusions, many of which haven't been proven, but which have been reported. And now Mr. Faltýnek has read it again, which means he refers to some other cases, to what was written in the paper. He doesn't believe it, but you, at the same time, referred to the words of many of your leaders, including your chairman, to what someone wrote about someone, although it has often not been proven, including accusing people of this, that they are thieves. So from this point of view, I'm explaining it again. The point is, when it comes in handy, you use various conclusions from public sources, various cases, various errors, even if they're not proven, but when it doesn't work, you don't read or count on what's published. And that's where the dog is buried.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u68	There. I will now read the order before Mr Bohuslav Svoboda comes to the microphone. Mr Tomáš Martínek, Minister Klára Dostálová, President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared further. So at this point, five factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I feel like I'm in a psychedelic dream here. I don't know what we're discussing. There are a lot of doctors here, so I would like to address my colleague Plzák through your way, which he likes to discuss, and I will ask him the following question. We have a patient who is admitted with acute appendicitis, will have high levels of inflammatory leukocyte markers, will have peritoneal symptoms, and a doctor's service will not operate on him. The patient will die. And now we're dealing with a case where in another five years, we have the same patient, he has the same high leukocytes, inflammatory symptoms, peritoneal symptoms, and the surgeon doesn't operate, and the patient dies. But he won't die until the next day. Do we ever go back to the fact that this happened ten years ago? It's irrelevant. It has nothing to do with the other case. And here we go. We're still learning what generations have done before us, and we're not dealing with what generations have done now. That's what we should be talking about. I don't care, I don't assume anything. I am indeed very, very impartial in this matter. But what I don't want to accept is that the argument that something is right is that someone else made the same mistake ten years ago. And he's gonna build it all on that. That's nonsense. This talk, this argument, what the President said to you through you, that's total nonsense. Turning to someone stealing ten years ago doesn't change if someone was stealing today. I only use those terms because you use them. Don't do it! Don't go back to that. It has nothing to do with this! We're supposed to be dealing with something else, and we're supposed to find the truth! And not to say what happened ten years ago!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u70	Mr Tomáš Martínek will now speak with a point of fact and prepare Minister Klára Dostálová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to inform you that I have sent everyone a link to an audit published by Diary N in your e-mail boxes so that you can have it fully at your disposal. I would also like to add to Mr Faltýnek that, if he is talking about publishing material sent by the European Commission, the standard for diplomatic materials is that both parties, like the European Commission, must agree to the publication. The Czech Republic represented by the government of Andrej Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u72	There. Minister Klára Dostálová will now speak on the point of fact and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I'm very sorry that I have to make the de facto remarks. On the other hand, I understand that it doesn't fit at all in your store to get off and set things straight. So let me at least tell you how things are in those two minutes. The audit report is an apolitical matter. It is not the addressee of the report either of the ministries but the competent governing bodies. The Commission identified the audit report as confidential and it follows from Regulation 1049/2011. At the same time, Regulation 1303 of 2013 refers to the precise procedures which, of course, the audited bodies have with the audit report. There are seven points. I'm going to send you all this timeline, just as I immediately put it at the disposal of the journalists to see - and now I have to commend the media, which at least now informs truthfully, because it really is the final report, not the final report. The Czech Republic is in point 2b of the seven. We can express whether we agree or disagree with these conclusions at all. Only then, of course, will the European Commission, if it conducts further negotiations, maybe - perhaps - talk about corrections, then we can have bilateral negotiations. The meeting, as Mr Faltýnek said here, Commissioner Hahn is indeed still running for a very long time. If you would give me space, I would very much like to answer for example. Mrs Pekarová, that, of course, we will ask the official European Commission for an opinion on whether or not we can publish, as we did in the preliminary report, all the answers we have. And if men were gentlemen in Czech politics, as they probably are not, I would expect through Mr President that Mr Fiala, Mr Stanjura and Mr Rakušan will apologize to me. But I don't think I'm gonna get that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u74	That was Madam Secretary. So we have two more factual points. Yes, we have two factual points. And the truth is that the Minister is signed up here immediately afterwards for a general debate. However, the factual ones have priority. So now President Stanjura and Mr Ferjenčík are on the verdict. And if there isn't another application, there's an order for the secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u75	Thank you for the floor. When I have something to apologize for, I'd love to apologize, Madam Secretary. I insist that you lied all Monday, that you invented an amazing semantic difference in Czech between the words final and final. Congratulations. I'm not gonna use your tapes and have a debate about the governing bodies. I don't think we're supposed to be running it today. However, let's get back to the basics of why we're dealing with this, and let's disprove myths. Andrej Babiš says that he acted exactly as lex Babiš says, so he put property into trust funds. Find me a mention of trust funds in Lex Babiš according to Andrej Babiš. There's no such thing. The only thing there is that a public official must not accept subsidies and investment conditions, respectively. The company, if the public official has 25 percent or more. We hear fairy tales from Andrej Babiš for years that his company is not based on direct subsidies. So if he decided that Agrofert would cut off the doping and do business only in the private sector, he wouldn't have to do legal tricks, and somewhere he'd just be poor, he just wouldn't be able to go for subsidies. [[unintelligible.]] And he says his human rights are being violated. I don't know the human right to benefit. Andrej Babiš may know him. I don't know the human right to take on an investment incentive. Maybe that's how you see it. So the solution under § 4b or 4c or 4a is not, it did not order any procedure. Andrej Babiš could have made up his mind. He could have kept his beloved Agrofert publicly, he didn't have to hide it if he could cut himself off from the doping, the subsidies, the public contracts and the investment incentives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u76	So now I have three factual points. So, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, then Minister Klára Dostálová and Chairman of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a question for the Minister. I would like to know how many of the 30 billion members of the ANO movement operate with here, the Czech Republic has recovered from those entities that have broken the law over the past six years when the YES movement was in government. This is where we keep talking about some $30 billion that ODS and CSSD here and I don't know who all the things they've caused us to lose, so I'm wondering what the government has done in six years to recover it, and how much it's been. But I'm even more interested, because I'm afraid you won't be able to do that if you haven't done it in the last six years, so I'm wondering if you can guarantee that you can enforce those corrections for the future. That is, if the EU says that the subsidies were paid unjustly, if you enforce it after the Agrofert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u78	I will now ask for the speech of Minister Klára Dostálová and prepare the chairman of the club ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek. So far, these are the last two applications I have here regarding factual remarks. So, Madam Secretary, you have the floor, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u79	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, in factual notes like this, so after two minutes. However, I suppose it is nothing but to answer Mr Stanjur through you, Mr President, that when he says that he has nothing to apologise for, let me quote again the words of Commissioner Hahn, who said: "The concept of the final report is misguided. The European Commission sent an internal preliminary statement and the Czech Republic can give an opinion. Then it will be the conclusion of the trial." But again, I don't expect you to be gentlemen enough to apologize. [[12.40 hours]] So let me continue with the timeline. When I say that we are in point 2b, we really came up with a draft final audit report. The Czech Republic now has two months to comment on this, of course. So if I can quote directly from Regulation 13/03, so that you don't grab a word from me: Before taking a decision on a possible financial correction, the Commission shall initiate the procedure by notifying the preliminary conclusions of its investigation to the Member State, together with a call for the Member State to submit its comments within two months. If the State submits, the Member State may therefore, in accordance with Article 145 (2) (a) of the Treaty, provide for the possibility for the Member State to submit the information referred to in Article 145 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The scope of the irregularities between the opinion of the audited persons and the European Commission shall be reviewed, of course. If, on the basis of further steps, the European Commission calculates the correction on the basis of extrapolation or flat-rate rates, the Member State has, of course, the possibility to comment on this and to initiate the so-called bilateral negotiations referred to in Article 145 (2) of the Treaty. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 50000000. If a Member State does not accept the preliminary conclusions of the Commission, the Commission shall invite it to be heard in order to ensure that the Commission's conclusion on the application of the correction of important information and findings is ensured. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u80	Jaroslav Faltýnek, Chairman of the ANO Club, will now perform. Then Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. So far, I've only got two applications for actual notes. And the third was added - Chairman of the ODS Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u81	Thank you. I would only react very briefly to the last speech of President Stanjura. Vice-President of the House of Fiala said here that the conflict of interest law was adopted because of Mr Babiš. We all agree on that. It's widely known information, and he confirmed it here today. So I'm asking, why didn't you do it better? Why didn't you do it better? I tried to debate with all the petitioners of the amendments in this debate, which took place here in 2016, when the law was being established in the House. He was a colleague of Plíšek, a colleague of Chvojka and others. And that's when I asked the experts on legislation why it was not proposed in the law, what exactly should the member of the government do with the property. And I was then answered by everyone across the political spectrum that it could not be precisely defined and described by the law, because it would be unconstitutional. That's how I was answered. So I'm asking, why didn't you do it better?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u82	The ODS Chairman Zbyněk Stanjura will now perform. Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u83	First of all. The bill was a government bill. When you quoted the amendments, neither of them was from the ODS workshop, but your coalition partner. Your problem is that you weren't able to handle it. The government majority always has a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, in any composition. So without losing your government majority, that law wouldn't have been passed. I'm quoting here. Andrej Babiš could have kept the property. He could have kept it, no one would forbid it. He didn't forbid, he doesn't forbid. Only a poor guy couldn't draw funding. And yet he says Agrofert doesn't need subsidies. Don't you feel a logical contradiction? I feel like I'm totally... Yeah, there's one difference, that's the media, I didn't mention that, that's got to be said correctly. That's where the public official can't own them. Why was it after Andrej Babiš came into politics? Because before that, no one would have even thought that the Prime Minister would be funding it! And let's not even talk about rightfully or unjustly. No one would have thought of that. And when Secretary Dostálová complains that she hasn't run out of time, complain about her at your club. You picked just two hours for the debate. We voted in favour of the meeting on Tuesday from 14:00 at least until 19:00. We could have had enough time. It's hypocritical to complain. First you set aside just two hours, and then you say, ježiš, I'm running out of time. That's awful! If you had any idea, the idea of coming here, you'll be reading those official speeches for two hours, and after two hours, we'll take your report back, well, that wasn't a realistic idea. Let's face it. The opposition is supposed to control the government. And if he catches the government on plums in a hysterical and false reaction, don't be surprised, so don't be surprised we're reacting. You, Madam Secretary, said to the media: we will contradict every sentence. And then you say, "Nothing, it's just the clerks." Then who is it - us? We, Department of Klára Dostálová? In the plural? What did you mean? I don't understand. You're contradicting yourself. Every day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u84	Time. Now Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala. Minister Klára Dostálová and chairman of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek will be ready. Three applications so far. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u85	Madam Secretary Dostálová, this isn't about whether we're gentlemen or not. This is about whether or not your words are credible. We are based on publicly available information and I will read one to you: The European Commission's audit report on the possible conflict of interests of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is final. There's no room for conflict. The European Commission spokesperson responded to the words of Czech Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová, according to which this is not the final version of the document. The Commission's spokesman, quoted by the Czech media, says: It is indeed a final report. So these are the public resources we're coming from and on the basis of which we said you weren't telling the truth. And what comes from the European Commission spokesperson here confirms our words, not yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u86	I'll read two apologies. Member Jiří Kobza apologizes today from 14:00 to the end of the day due to a working meeting in the electoral region. František Vácha apologizes between 14 and 18 for personal reasons. So, Madam Secretary Klára Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u87	Thank you for the floor. Of course again, I've responded to it in the media several times. It is therefore a little sad, through Mr Fiala, that you will not verify the information with the Czech Government Minister and believe only the Commission's press secretary, where the Commission itself says today that the final report is a misleading term. This is an internal commissioning final report, but still with the proposal, the draft conclusion. So I'm begging you... Of course, it would be really good for us to communicate with these things. I wanted to explain it to you, you don't want to. However, I repeat once again, the request to treat the report as a confidential document has been made to the Czech Republic by the European Commission. I am convinced that if we publish it, we will undermine the credibility and predictability of our state. On the one hand, we are hollering at how democratic and pro-European we are, and on the other hand, we are unable to respond to the desire of our partner, which is the European Commission, so that we can become a reliable and readable partner for him too. I just want to ask you, because I've already given up on the apologies, but please. At this point, no commission can actually accomplish its purpose. Again, government ministers are not an audited entity, we are not familiar with this report. Even the expert teams will be working on those conclusions. And if you put it in my mouth that we contradicted every sentence on every page, that was for the preliminary draft, that's how the officials informed me. And when we're all quoting Diary N here, they wrote, and she was right. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u88	Now Chairman of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek. So far, the last actual application. Therefore, Minister Klára Dostálová will be prepared again in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u89	One sentence. I'm not sure, 'cause he's been leaving my brain out now and then, okay? But I have a feeling that Zbyněk Stanjura, chairman of the ODS Club, suggested the meeting at 11 o'clock today, didn't he? Am I wrong? [[He turns right to the ODS benches.]] Yeah? I'm so sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u90	I have one more point of fact. The chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek, will perform here. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, did you raise your hand for suggesting this or for reporting to the debate? [[to Mr Bartoš]] [[Mr Bartoš confirms that he proposed the meeting.]] Yeah, that's how I got it right. Chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that time is slowly coming to an end, I think we should vote before 13:00 on the suspension of the House of Deputies' negotiations on this point, in two options. First, until Tuesday 17. 12. 2019 14.30 hours. If this option does not pass, the interruption shall be pending the submission of a report to the Supervisory Committee assessing the European Commission's report on the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, but no later than 31. 1. 2020. This means in the second variant 2020, in the first case 17. 12. 2019. [[12.50 hours]] So, in that first case, we would continue in a situation where all Members of the Chamber of Deputies are already familiar with the content of the audit report, which could lead to this discussion being more informed, and in the second case, we would continue after we have the information from the Supervisory Committee, where I have already been informed by the Chair of the Supervisory Committee that the Supervisory Committee will deal with this issue at its meetings, and I assume that the Chamber of Deputies should be informed by 31 October of this deadline. 1. 2020 so that we can discuss this matter and the measures taken by the competent authorities following the European Commission's audit report here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies with a basis that will be expertly prepared in committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u92	So, Mr President, I'm going to ask you to stay with the microphone so you can repeat the two votes so everyone knows exactly what we're going to vote on. I'm gonna sing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u93	So the first suggestion is--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u94	One moment, I will arrange for Members to appear in the Chamber first. Checkout request. Do you have a voting card on you? I'd like you to repeat that to us after all. I checked you all out, sign up with your voting cards again. I'll read two more apologies. Mr Milan Hnilička apologizes between 14.30 and 15.30 for reasons of work and Mr Patrik Nacher apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of working in the constituency. Let me ask you one more time, Mr. Chairman. So it will be a procedural proposal, we will vote immediately. Please read the first vote we will be voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u95	The first vote is: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic interrupts the discussion of the final version of the European Commission's audit report on conflicts of interest by Tuesday 17. 12. 2019 14.30 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u96	We all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 338, registered by 150 Members, for 53, against 70. The motion was denied. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u97	The second procedural proposal is: The Chamber of Deputies interrupts negotiations on this item pending the submission of a report by the Supervisory Committee on the audit report concerning the conflict of interests of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, but by 31 at the latest. 1. 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u98	Mr Kubíček has a comment on this? Do you have a procedural comment? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u99	It is unvoted in this form, because Minister Dostálová will work six months to create some report to do so, and the Supervisory Committee is to produce this report by 31. 1. That's nonsense. We have our first meeting of 18. 12. where we are opening this report, where we will proceed as we have done with the myth that we will be doing this at each meeting, but we will receive information on an ongoing basis, and I cannot draw on any information other than that provided by the managing authority. I can't finish by 31. 1. Neither is the inspection committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u100	I think the House should take a vote, but Zbyněk Stanjura's chairman here has a comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u101	Mr Kubíček had no right to speak, but let us be generous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u102	I thought this was about the vote put forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u103	I know, it's not your fault. You could have assumed he'd put forward a motion for a procedural vote. I think it's pretty simple. Madam Secretary Dostálová doesn't have six months, it's fairy tales and fables again. She said she had 60 days since receiving the official Czech translation. I think it's pretty simple. If we vote and the inspection committee does not discuss this by 31 January, then the chairman of the inspection committee will come here and introduce us to the interim conclusions, or he will say 'we still need a month', and we will move the resolution for a month. There is nothing problematic about that, that we are unable to determine the date today to agree on it. I think it's relevant, it's been more than six weeks. If this does not happen, an interim report shall be submitted on how it is carried out in the control committee. This is how I think it is completely fine and we can vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u104	Yes, as I said, I think that this is voteable and that it should decide by vote of the Chamber of Deputies. I think we all know what we're going to vote on, we didn't lose the thread during the debate. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 339, 153 Members signed in, for 97, against 4. The motion was accepted. So I'm going to interrupt this point at this point. Anyway, we've got five minutes left, so if there's no other deal, I'd start another point. [[Protest voices from the O.R., MP Faltynek on the outside of the microphone, say it's pointless.]] Well, I'll ask if the general chairmen of the MPs have anything against me interrupting the meeting. I'm asking - does anyone have a problem with that? I'll read an apology. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes from 12.45 until the end of the day for working reasons. I'm interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting after a general agreement, and I'll see you here at 2:30 p.m. at the interceptions. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-12-05-ps2017-039-07-002-295.u105	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, we will continue this afternoon's negotiations. Before I open the next point, I'll introduce you to the note cards. Mr Kozlová apologizes between 14.30 and 18.00 for a doctor's visit, Mr Zlesák apologizes from Farský to the end of the králíček day, Mr Petrtýl apologizes from the afternoon meeting until the end of the working day, Mr Dražilová apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the Nacher day, Mr Jurečka Bartoš from 14.30 to the end of the working day, and tomorrow, on Friday 6 December, from the whole working day for working reasons, from 14.30 to the end of the working day, from 14.30 to the end of the working day, Mr Balaštíková apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, Mr Strýček apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the working Brzobohatá, Mr Janda Kytýr apologizes from 14.30 to 18.00 for reasons of the working day of the sitting, from 14.30 to 18.00 for reasons of the working day of the sitting, Mr Pour apologies from 14.30 to the working day. Now I'm opening another point, which is
