ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u1	312. Information of the Minister for Health about the health situation We interrupt this item in the general debate on 12 September 2019 at the 34th meeting. [[Noise in the hall.]] I will ask that the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and the rapporteur, Mr Daniel Pawlas, take the position at the rapporteur's table. Before we continue the interrupted general debate, I ask the Minister if he is interested in speaking before the continuation of the debate. Mr. Secretary? You're interested. I'll calm the sněmovna down for you. I will ask all those who are still discussing the last point to discuss it in the lobby and to allow the Minister of Health to comment on the information requested by the Chamber of Deputies. I'm really asking you all to calm down, move any debates outside the O.R. If you want to join the debate, of course you have the opportunity in the order that is recorded, with the order being given. We have enough peace here. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief to begin with, but I think it is appropriate to update the debate a little bit, because we ended it at a time when it has not actually been decided on how the health care will be financed next year, and it is true that this point concerned, in particular, this area with an accent on home care, but, of course, all other segments, on the creation of payment orders, etc. In the meantime, the situation has shifted, especially after negotiations with all the bodies that have something to say about it, the providers and so on, and the many-month debate on health services payments was concluded next year. Last Friday, when I signed a payment order, which is already sent to the Collection of Laws, that is, that is, in fact, the process is closed at the moment. Let me therefore inform you very briefly about the development and updating of these negotiations and, therefore, how the payment decree is sent to the Collection of Laws at this time. In particular, the debate took place in this context so that all health service providers, including hospitals, have sufficient resources, in particular to cover the increase in the remuneration of health professionals, so we agreed that remuneration will increase in all segments quite so that no segment will be substantially favoured, except for one segment, which was more strongly supported, I will talk about it later. The total increase compared to the payment decree, which originally accounted for a nominal increase of CZK 24 billion, is 4,9 billion in addition to the payment decree. This means, overall, roughly CZK 29 billion directly in the payment decree. And what we have said repeatedly, and it is an agreement with health insurance companies, that beyond the 29 billion there will be 6 billion crowns, which will be included in the health insurance plans of all health insurance companies, and it will be money intended for targeted payment mechanisms, to support regional hospitals, primary care, to ensure the availability of quality care so that there is really room for targeted support within individual segments, because the payment decree is still an area document that is not able to address specific local, regional problems, for example in primary care or in border areas, etc. So this is actually how the payment system is set up, a total of CZK 35 billion extra, which is a historical increase. There has never been more money in the Czech health sector in history. All segments are growing, no segment is stagnating, on the contrary they are growing very significantly, which means health services thrive in this direction. And one segment, which will be supported more on the basis of the debates that we have had, is domestic care. Domestic health care, which - of course, we reflect the debate about the fact that nurses in home care, unlike nurses at bedside, have been relatively neglected in recent years. It wasn't exactly a topic for previous political Garnitures, so domestic care wasn't a priority in this regard. We think it's a segment that deserves support. In fact, most of all segments were supported in the original decree, but since we want to have nurses in our home care, we decided to increase significantly in this regard the so-called wage indices in the list of performances so that we should just aim at raising the wages of the nurses in our home care, when we expect that a monthly nurse in domestic care will have a salary of CZK 10,000. This means 10,000 crowns a month higher salary for nurses in home care in the framework of a supergross wage, which I assume should be sufficiently motivational and stabilizing, so that the nurses in home care simply remain and we support this segment. So the total increase there is about 41 percent year-on-year, otherwise in the other segments it's somewhere about 8 to 12 percent. [[16.30 hours]] So I think that really as we have set up the funding system under the payment order, it ensures a stable growth of all segments. It is not that one segment is fundamentally privileged, apart from home care, where we think it is appropriate. We hold conciliation agreements, it is very important, from the point of view of bonification, that the terrain will take more care of patients, primary care will be supported, outpatient specialists who accept new insured people who are willing to take care of their patients will be more encouraged, and that is what I think is the goal. We believe that the payment decree, as it is set up, including dental care, and others where we see that there are problems, will ensure that care is more accessible, that care is better and that we will, in short, solve the problems that the Czech health care has suffered in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u3	Thank you, Minister of Health. And we will continue the interrupted general debate with the fact that the first registered is with priority rights the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I believe that improving the state of the Czech health sector is not only of interest to our coalition government, but to the entire Chamber of Deputies, and I therefore welcome the opportunity to discuss how to improve the situation here, because it is the most valuable, namely human health. And I'd like us to put aside the usual politics and try to find a match. I am glad that the Minister of Health can come out here and say that we are sending the most money to health care in history, about 350 billion. Kroner, that's a record number. After all, we live in a boom time, so it would be sad if it weren't. I think we all agree that putting enough money into the health sector is a matter of course. Let me briefly comment not on what has fallen here in the House, but rather in the media space, and these have not always been helpful statements to former health ministers for social democracy. I would like to make it clear that yes, social democracy ran the health department in the last parliamentary term, but we took over the resort in right-wing governments and cleaned it up after the experiments. We've canceled nonsensical health fees, we've stabilized health care in both personnel and financial terms. We've been trying to add doctors, nurses, to keep them here so they don't go abroad. I mean, the current minister has a decent foundation to build on today. As a social democracy, I want to make it clear that health care is our priority and will be the same for the future. We have been involved in the debate on the current health situation since the beginning, we have dealt with the crisis staff and we are ready to deal with everyone. I am glad that, as part of the government's discussion, after the Coalition Council, it was possible to announce that 6 billion will come to health care. extra crowns. After further negotiations with the KSČM, another 4.5 billion appeared, so this is a very good signal for our patients. However, the discussion is still ongoing and I believe that today will continue, and arguments will be made that the money is needed more, so we are prepared for the debate, but we also want to know where the money will go. We believe that the best way to distribute money is by a payment decree, and it is necessary to look at the most underfunded areas such as home care or bed care and deal with them systemically. So I'm really glad that health care is going to the most money in history, that's good. On the other hand, if we look at how other developed countries finance health care, then the Czech Republic still lags behind 7.5% of GDP behind those dreamed 9 percent. But I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank Czech paramedics for their performances. Thank you to doctors, thank you to nurses for working with such commitment, and thanks to that, care for our patients is as good as it is today. So thank you for the opportunity to come out today and thank you for believing that we agree that health care is everyone's priority, not just the government coalition. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u5	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček. We will continue according to the minutes of the debate. First is Mrs Alena GajdůGajdůšková, Mrs Jarošová will be prepared. I don't have any factual notes at this point, so we can proceed in order. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, Government, colleagues and colleagues, I will follow up on what the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior Mr Hamáček have been talking about. We certainly all want health, which is why we also wish for birthdays, holidays, we simply wish for each other, because health is a value for everyone. For social democracy, health care is then a public key service and access to it, i.e. health care, is important regardless of the wallet or the amount of the account as a fundamental condition of equality for our citizens. I will remind you that, under social democratic governments, not only have the salaries of doctors been increased, but also the nurses and other workers in health establishments, but also the conditions for implementing the efficiency of the system and greater transparency have been implemented or prepared. I will remind eRecipe, recall the creation of an instrument commission and increase payments for state insured persons by 2020 - about 3.5 billion. in a year. To this end, payments for state insured persons are a stabilizing element of the entire health care system. The health information system has also been restored and digitized. I'll remind you that in 2015, when I tried to find out about doctors, numbers of doctors, and so with their layering in individual professions, I needed it from the Office of the Government, I couldn't find out anything. Only then, under the leadership of Mr. Dušek did the system really start to work again, because until then it was somehow frozen, and today we have this information. This information also now demonstrates what we know from the field, and perhaps every one of you, the MPs, is missing in the field, in hospitals, medical facilities, not only doctors, but especially medical personnel, nurses, but also other assistance staff. The captains would tell us they don't have cookbooks, they don't have ambulances, they don't have technical staff, which is also needed in hospitals. Not only on this issue, he met here in the Chamber of Deputies under the guarantee of the Social Democracy Club not only the crisis crew, but others who are interested in the situation and who have something to say about it. They met with employees, employers, and representatives of patients. The resolution that I would then like to put forward is also based on this debate. I would like to stress that I really appreciate the high professionalism and professional qualities, but also the self-sacrifice of people in hospitals, in health institutions. We wish, and we have always tried to make sure that employees have really good conditions for their work in the healthcare system. As a social democrat, it is essential for me that quality health care is available to everyone, as the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, respectively. [[16.40 hours]] I therefore propose a resolution of the following wording. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that the current situation in the area of personal care is serious. It therefore calls on the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Czech Republic to: I. Systemically addressed the lack of all healthcare workers and created legislative and financial conditions for maintaining existing and receiving new staff of all categories to ensure quality and available health care; II. the promised funds in excess of the payment decree of CZK 6 billion were distributed transparently by the Ministry and achieved the settlement of basic payments and unjustified differences in the amount of health care paid; III. a mechanism has been laid down for valorisation of payments for state insured persons since 2021 in order to gradually achieve an increase in the amount of funding to healthcare comparable to the average of the European Union, i.e. around 9 per cent of GDP.' I will, of course, present this resolution in a detailed debate. And yet I dare to add one thing for myself that has something to do with all this. The current government is proposing an increase in alcohol and tobacco payments. I see this above all as a measure to limit alcohol and tobacco consumption. Of course it will bring funds to the state budget. But I think that these means, which will bring an increase in the tax on alcohol and tobacco to the state budget, should be directed right into the health care system, because that is where the effects will actually manifest themselves most. I'm sure there will be a debate about that, and I'm sure we'll have it when we discuss the state budget. Thank you in advance for supporting the proposed resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u7	Thank you, Mrs Gajdůšková. Now, Mrs Jarošová. Mrs Maříková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Our health care has been facing major problems that burden our sick citizens day in and day out. Above all, we lack healthcare professionals in hospitals. At present, their lack threatens patients when health care in hospitals is collapsing in some areas. Unfortunately, even this year, staff is continuing to leave the hospital. Doctors go abroad, to ambulances. Sisters and other staff most often head out of the field where they get more money. It is important to remember that the work of doctors and nurses is irreplaceable by their specialization, and once they leave, it is hard for us to come back. Only to cover the continuous emergency care is about 3,000 doctors missing. Their real lack, however, is obscured by the fact that each of the doctors present is burdened with a huge amount of work over time, which is grossly contrary to the labour code. We lack doctors mainly in some fields, such as dentistry, allergy, orthopedics, psychiatry or neurology, and this is also the main cause of long waiting periods. Many of these specialists have long reached retirement age and have long been underserving. In the case of general nurses, we lack more than 2,400. Not to mention the numbers of lower medical personnel, such as ambulances and nurses. The deteriorating personnel situation leads to the closure of departments in hospitals, often leaving employees outside the health sector, which continues to aggravate the personnel situation. Hospitals, which then take over patients after closed wards, are even more overloaded both by bed and by staff, and thus can delay the necessary treatment of patients, or they are also released from treatment. This makes access and quality of health care dramatically worse for them. And that's a vicious circle. Among the issues that our citizens are particularly concerned about are disproportionately long waiting times for an examination by a specialist. It is no exception that this wait will extend for several months. It has been a practice that the more sophisticated the examination is, the longer the time it takes for a professional procedure or diagnosis. There has been talk of such a catastrophic health situation for years, but nothing more significant has so far been done. The current situation is beginning to affect patients. The quality and availability of care is getting worse. In the long term, the working conditions of the staff are deteriorating, overloading, violating the Labour Code, and leaving the health sector. Neither a large number of hospitals nor a disproportionate increase in the salaries of their employees, but underfinancing the resort, because it is financed by less than 7 percent of GDP, and that is woefully little. Other causes of hospital failure are systemic. Hospitals have different basic rates and different health care payments, leading to economic problems especially for smaller hospitals. All these facts are notorious and their solutions can no longer be postponed indefinitely. We need to realise our priorities, and that is leaving most of our hospitals outside the private sector, not letting them fall by underfinancing, maintaining quality and undisturbed staff and, above all, the health and satisfaction of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u9	Thank you, Mrs Jarošová. Now, Mrs Maříková. Mr. Dvořák will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The honourable Members, honourable Members and honourable Minister, the health sector is in a state where the medical chamber publicly admits that it is unable to guarantee health care safety. The trivial lack of both doctors and nurses is signed on to reduce quality, availability, but also the safety of health services. On the one hand, I must admit that the Minister has inherited a lot of problems from his predecessors that they have not solved, and now they have risen, but that does not mean that we will let them be bought up until the health system completely collapses. Health care is taken in this country as a black hole, into which money falls, but nowhere to be seen. It must be noted that investment in health is an investment in the citizens of this country. Only a healthy citizen can work and subsequently pay taxes and money from his income to the health and social system. Therefore, saving for health-care investments does not pay off. Investment in health care in the Czech Republic is the lowest in Europe. However, the Minister refuses to release more funds for the Czech health services, which provided health insurance companies with contributions from patients and taxpayers. They hold tens of billions of crowns in their accounts. According to the law, health insurance companies must have 1.5 percent of the budget as a reserve, i.e. the amount corresponding to about four days of care for their clients. At present, however, insurance companies hold about ten times as much in their accounts. This money is not insurance companies, but patients who contribute to health insurance. Underfunded health care results in insufficient staffing of hospitals. Many hospitals are dependent on foreign doctors without aprobation exams, but in many cases they are not qualified, and treatment from such a doctor can sometimes be a health hazard. I do not want to throw all foreign doctors into one bag, but many patients' experience clearly indicates that a large part of foreign doctors are unable to reach an agreement with the patient in the Czech language and it is very problematic for them to pass an aprobation exam. Some work without this test, which is evidence of the professional knowledge of such a doctor. Last year, the medical chamber asked the Ministry for a regular monthly overview of how many doctors were admitted to Czech hospitals in the framework of the project Ukraine. The request was only partially answered. The Ministry sends a list of received but without specifying a specific workplace. Why does the Ministry make it impossible for the Chamber to control compliance with applicable legislation? Isn't the patient's safety and health first? A foreigner can't perform a medical profession without an aprobation exam. Upon the authorisation of the Ministry of Health, he can only practice as a doctor in the sixth year of his studies under the direct professional guidance of a qualified doctor, namely a doctor with specialized competence and practice at least three years after the certificate. This fully qualified doctor must always be physically present with a foreigner at the workplace. Each foreigner must be legally one fully qualified doctor with practice, who cannot also be a trainer of any other doctor without a testimonial. [[16.50 hours]] How do you think it works in practice? In my experience, I have to say that many of these doctors are even ordining themselves. Their guarantor is sometimes physically present at the workplace, but these doctors often make their own decisions without aprobation test, as they cannot keep such a doctor side by side, as a foreign doctor subjugates the missing workforce for many hospitals. Due to the lack of staffing of hospitals, the code of work is often surrounded and violated. Both doctors and nonmedical workers are burned out. Much of them go abroad or completely out of the field. It's nice that the Minister is luring the medical school students to the competition to film a video of why you're studying health, and you're going to win a new iPhone. Perhaps the Minister could also invite all health professionals, both doctors and non-medical professionals who work abroad to make a video for him, to leave the Czech health service. And they would make a video for him, but on their own iPhone, because they can afford it on their salary and they don't have to serve many hours of overtime for it. Czech doctors are getting old, and how do you want to motivate young beginners and nurses not to go abroad or out of the field when they get a bigger salary outside of health care? Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch has been told that health salaries will no longer grow. He thinks the rewards are high enough. Minister, you could have just told the paramedics if they didn't like it, so they can leave. And I quote you in particular: The salary of doctors and nurses working in Czech hospitals is equal to the EU average. In proportion to the nurse's income to the total average wage of the state, you have already reached the level of Germany. - The minister claims that this year the average reward for the doctor is CZK 84,000 and CZK 43,000 for the nurses. Well, that really seemed ridiculous to me, because in order for a doctor to reach such a salary, he has to serve many hours of overtime. The only person who pays for all of this is the patient himself, who does not receive quality care and has to wait for professional examination for several months and in the case of orthopaedic surgery sometimes two years. Patients in the regions have already proven worse access to health care than people in large cities. However, the Minister claims that health care is in order in the regions. So I have a feeling that perhaps the Karlovy Vary Region is not in the Czech Republic. The minister leads one of the most complicated resorts, but he should realize that without doctors, nurses, and other medical staff, it just won't work. If they're not sufficiently evaluated, they'll leave. They may think they'll be replaced by doctors from Ukraine, but at what cost? He may have high-quality health care here in Prague, but patients in the regions will find it harder to know. But they deserve health care on a level. The only thing health workers want to do their profession well to be paid for it, as the Minister mentioned, at the level of Germany, but without many hours of overtime, and in the finals the patient was satisfied. I therefore propose a resolution: 1. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Health to inform the Chamber of Deputies what steps and systemic solutions he is preparing to resolve the personnel crisis in the health sector. 2. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Ministry of Health to develop a long-term health concept, as will ensure quality and available health care in the following years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u11	Thank you, Mrs Maříková. He will certainly enter into a detailed debate so that at least the text she has read is presented in a detailed debate so that it can be voted on. Now, before I give the floor to my colleague Dvořák, I shall read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, Mrs Miroslava Němcová from 17:00 to the end of the day, and Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík also intends to apologize after 5:00 from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for work reasons. Let's keep going. Mr Dvořák will appear, Mr Třešňák will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the health conditions for both health care providers and their employees and the availability of care for patients continue to deteriorate. If nothing changes, there will be further deepening of problems and increased risk for patients. We see a fundamental problem in the lack of money in the system as a whole, which needs to be addressed by increasing funding for next year. However, the greatest paradox is that, now that this has been mentioned, there are many times more billions on the accounts and reserves of health insurance companies than the legal limit. After the announced release of some of the money into health care, there is still a large amount of funds above the required amount. There are arguments that this money from health insurance companies should be for the crisis, but that is nonsense. Our funding system is ongoing. I fear that billions of reserve funds will not be seen in medical care and money will disappear as steam over a mug, as has happened repeatedly in health care over the last 30 years. State, virtually. health insurance companies owe to hospitals for providing care to hundreds of millions of crowns. They did not pay them a salary increase this year, they do not pay for part of the care provided, hospitals and other segments get into economic and personnel problems due to this. Many of them are fighting for survival. Insurance companies are to continuously finance the health care to which patients are entitled. Thanks to the regulations for care provided and the growing lack of doctors, health care is constantly getting worse. For example, waiting times for an MRI are four to five months in our region, similar in neighboring regions. Other specialised investigation methods are the same, often even worse. Emergency care beds are interrupted, both in district hospitals and clinics, mainly for lack of personnel, or temporarily parts of the department are closed for the same. There's no painfully acute beds. Part of patients must be treated out of the way. But there is a lack of capacity in the outpatient sphere, and the problem in the ambulances is getting worse by moving patients. Ambulant doctors are overloaded, patients are late for treatment and, moreover, ambulance insurance pays only part of the work according to pre-defined limits. So part of the work for the patients is unpaid. It is necessary to significantly reduce regulation and to pay for acute care without regulations. It is normal to pay for the full amount of work done by hospitals and ambulances. Subsequently, there is a lack of money for medical staff salaries. In addition, the lay public is being broken up against health professionals about the amount of salaries that is reported monthly with overtime, which is 100 to 120 hours per month, but statistics will only officially show up basic working hours after employers magic with numbers, as there is a violation of the Labour Code. My doctor's testimonial worked like this for an hour of work of CZK 200 to 250, but in the media, the average salary of a doctor is CZK 75,000. But that's 300 to 330 hours a month. With the doctor before the test, I get the same thing from 150 to 180 crowns per hour. In large amounts of overtime, nurses and doctors are overtired, exhausted, at risk of misconduct, and reflected on their physical and mental health. That's why a lot of paramedics leave the resort. In addition, there is also a time bomb in the form of the age of doctors. Of the total number of doctors who are 42,000, 12,500 are over 60 years of age, 7,500 are over 65 years of age. And these doctors will disappear irreversibly from health care, and at that time there is no substitute for them. The increase of students in medical faculties will not occur until 10, respectively. 15 years. Children's doctors in rural and small towns are starting to miss very much, but the lack of doctors is already noticeable in all care segments, and patients are already feeling this very painfully. Thank you to all health professionals for staying in these conditions and for providing exemplary care for patients despite low wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u13	I thank Mr Dvořák. Now, Mr. Petr Třešňák, Hana Aulická will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u14	Dear colleagues, Minister, because this point has been reopened after a considerable time and there has already been some shift that the Minister has described here, when he spoke about both the payment decree and, where appropriate, the finances that go beyond its scope, although I believe that the basis for stabilization should be, above all, an increase in payments for state insured persons, I would not like to continue to elaborate on this subject, and I will therefore try to be as brief as possible and I will explain why. The Minister himself mentioned when this point first opened up that the claim that health is in crisis or collapse is not true. However, the next thing we know, there was a controversy that he was not in crisis, but he is not working very well. That is why I do not want to continue this controversy. But let's face it, on the personnel side, and it's already fallen here today, it's certainly not that pink. Doctors and nurses make a large amount of overtime and have no room for a dignified life and rest after a demanding job. If it wasn't for their self - sacrificing work, the system would have collapsed long ago, which would have put the patient most at risk. Maybe even ask how many surgeries have to be postponed because of lack of O.R. sisters, respectively. How many capable nurses would rather go to the fabric where they have lower stress. Similarly, I could also talk about the background of medical equipment and devices, i.e. how much equipment is in operation per unit or tens of millions of crowns, although not everywhere there are enough personnel who can operate them and correctly subtract outputs. Of course, this will not just solve other finances, even if it is one of the most important factors. First of all, doctors and nurses must have working conditions and environments in order to do this work at all. Therefore, let us probably appreciate everyone who works in health care, and let us all actually try to create conditions for them to really want to work there. Health, however, must be subject primarily to the needs and preferences of patients. And I would like to say that the health sector is particularly in crisis from the point of view of the patient, whom the insurance companies should ideally represent, and to ensure equal access to care for all their insured people. And I'm afraid that's not the case today. Insurance companies do not guarantee to their patients that they will be treated with a provider where there is no breach of the Labour Code and which is adequately staffed in the ranks of both doctors and nurses. They do not even ensure that it will be treated at all, especially at the end of the year, and instead it is directed to another provider who has not yet completed the specified budget, or is recommended, at worst, to arrive in January. Then we come to the person who is really responsible for the functioning of the insurance company. No doubt, above all, the board of directors. It is therefore necessary to occupy the board of directors of health insurance companies by people who really care about delivering quality health care, i.e. especially to representatives of insured persons. How to elect insured persons to the board of directors of health insurance companies, we deal both in the parliamentary amendment under the number House press 479, or in our House press 516, which are included in the agenda of this meeting. Well, I'm sorry that the pre-trial proposal didn't go through today. However, it should be noted that the Minister was one of the few government Members who voted in favour of him. I also agree that this is only a partial part of the problem. However, if citizens also see that the system is fair and transparent and that it has a real impact on its functioning, then we may be able to restore not only the trust of patients who pay for their entire lives, but also the doctors and nurses themselves. That's all from me at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u15	Thank you. Next, Mrs Aulická is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u16	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also contribute with my contribution, because I would like to remind you that this point has been placed on the spur of the KSČM. KSČM is also the one who has long fought for solidarity, quality and available health care for all patients in the Czech Republic. I would like to say that we perceive that most hospitals are facing a catastrophic lack of doctors and nurses, especially in acute bed care. Patients in the regions must wait disproportionately long for the planned operations and the necessary examinations, and the health system suffers from long-term underfinancing. The need for care is increasingly lacking for citizens, especially in areas farther away from large cities. For this reason, in negotiations with the Prime Minister and with the Minister of Health, we insisted on increasing payments to areas where we believe the situation is the most pressing, i.e. domestic care, social services and regional hospitals. I think that after this substantive negotiations, we have reached a compromise in the form of 4.9 billion. CZK in excess of previously promised health insurance companies 6 billion. And these almost 5 billion. Moreover, as the Minister also said in his opening speech, it will be divided through a payment decree from the balance in the accounts of health insurance companies. This is an amount that will in no way jeopardise the stability of public health insurance in 2020, as a steady increase in income is expected in the coming years. The forecastability and stability of funds in the health system will consequently guarantee regular automatic valorisation of payments for state insured persons. I stress this because the KSČM parliamentary club has tabled this proposal and lies in the Chamber of Deputies before the second reading. We see that our proposal, of course, also needs some minor legislative adjustments, but we are primarily concerned with the security of finances in this area. I would like to say that, more or less, as all the previous speakers have been doing here, they agree, and many have stated here on individual cases, that health is not really in the best shape and that the situation is really - I cannot say whether it is already at the limit of the crisis or whether it is in crisis or at the limit that there is a serious situation. In any case, it is probably best felt by our citizens and, in fact, by patients who, of course, come to confront this situation every day. I am also very sorry about the e-mail from Dr. Kubek, President of the Czech Medical Chamber, who sent out a letter, an e-mail saying that the effort, even within the framework of the crisis staff, which he was part of, was won by an increase in the form of 4.9 billion. And I am very sorry that the President of the Czech Medical Chamber did not mention that the KSČM was primarily behind these agreements. We're not saying we don't like the money more. Anyway, I'm very sorry about someone taking credit more or less unilaterally. That is why we will also be demanding from the Health Committee within the KSČM tomorrow, or we will ask the Minister to actually provide us with an up-to-date status of personnel, both medical and non-medical personnel, where of course we have this information, and even one of our questions, I think it is the seventh, concerns this area. And to really tell ourselves how old we have doctors, what professions we lack, where we cannot replace these professions, and how they will be - we can say in the horizon, I am not afraid of it, five, ten years of developing these areas, and what the necessary steps are systemic to keep our health care from collapsing. I'm reporting a sad case from Mosteck where five gynecologists end up in five years. Five gynecologists who mostly retire or already have an age when they talk about burning down, or other health problems arise. Each gynecologist or gynecologist has an average of 3.5,000 patients. Refund so far, zero. Where do you think these patients are going? They're going to hospitals. Hospitals, of course, in most cases - and mostly mostly not able to accept this strain in the outpatient part and satisfy actually the demand for this care. I'm saying this case on purpose, because I'm a woman, and of course we're more or less using gynecology. But they're other areas like pediatrics, like district medicine. [[17.10 hours]] I believe that if we do not look at this systemically, and there is a need for systemic adjustment, so although the Minister says that health care is in good shape and there is no problem, we say that if we do not start to systemically address things - and maybe I am suggesting the question of health insurance companies, that is, for example, two health insurance companies, than the concept that we have today, and it is just the first rounds that we should see as systemic steps - I am not afraid to say that our health care will suffer major problems within about ten years. And, of course, it will again be up to the state and the current government, which will have to deal with these considerable and above all economic problems, which will have an impact on all citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u17	I also thank you and Mrs Valachová is also signed up for the general debate and Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the point that we are discussing. Providing health care and health care, and the Minister of Health will certainly confirm it, is one of the topics on which everyone is expressing themselves, because we need every health care. And because we need health care, of course, we understand best what it should look like and how it should be ensured. All of us, as we are here in the Chamber of Deputies, are patients or patients. I hope not in terms of humor, that we need some psychiatric treatment. Maybe that's what some people sometimes think about in the middle of the night's broadcasts. However, we are simply using health care and our system as patients and patients. Many of you - and it is important to say this, I think it is also important to stress this in the Chamber of Deputies - are health workers. I'm sure there's a high percentage of doctors, doctors, paramedics, paramedics. And I think that, thanks to this, the topic of health and the provision of quality and affordable health care is also in the attention of the Chamber of Deputies. Here I would like to say that I do not see the inclusion of this point and the discussion of the situation in health care as some kind of molding of the government or the Minister of Health, but simply that it is a serious subject. The situation in the field of health care provision and quality health care personnel is serious, it is serious objectively, regardless of who is in charge. And we as Members must pay attention to this. As far as enough doctors and nurses are concerned, I would like to remind you that both the previous government and this government have done a lot. Already in the past government, in terms of the development of the number of doctors in terms of their age, and thus natural generational variation, in the Ministry of Health, in mid-2016 - then Mr Dušek worked on this as an expert - an analysis of the development of the number of doctors and doctors in our facilities, as well as the number of nurses, and we adopted a programme to strengthen education in higher education in order to respond to generational variation. It should be added that, in 2016, and last year, when we introduced an increase in the number of admitted doctors and nurses into practice into the academic year, so in both of these cases - frankly, it is always about money. I would like to support the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health here to be successful not only in this budget, but also in the following budgets in terms of strengthening this programme, so that we are able to accept as many future doctors, doctors and nurses as possible, but also to take measures - and there is an important interaction with the academic workplace, that is, universities and universities, as well as with the Ministry of Education - to find a way to strengthen the ongoing practice of these doctors during the course of our studies and also to make the least possible of those doctors who will study, so to speak, run abroad. Because it's the thing that burns us. Just as we burn high numbers, and we are happy for that, health workers who study at our universities. I quote, if they study in Czech, they study free of charge. I'm not criticizing it, I think that's a good thing. But we should pay particular attention to the fact that, if they study here, they will stay in our territory and participate in improving health care in our - especially - hospitals. Probably the inspiration I think would be worth following is the same attention we've focused on college students. In this respect, I think they could have common will and effort, both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Because it is the high schools of health and social services, work and care that could help us through increased numbers or support, scholarships and so on, to ensure enough of these workers in the future. So much, let's say, systemic measures for the future and a continuation of them in terms of both the current and the previous government. As far as our regions and those providing health care in the regions are concerned, I believe that, in terms of setting up the system of financing for the future and sustainability of affordable care, we should devote - and the Minister of Health, of course, most of all, because it has a lot in mind - that a number of regions have to deal with the fact that they have diverse founders in their territory, be they faculty hospitals, and therefore the state, as a matter of fact, the Ministry of Health, whether they are therefore commercial companies, whether it be ownership of the region and possibly the fellowship organizations, cities, municipalities, but also, and also in some regions it is, the Church. If I listened well, it has not yet been said that we are coming in a number of regions on the border of the cycle of the so-called five-year framework agreement and in view of all the changes that the government is preparing for the improvement and availability of health care, we will also have to ensure sufficient conditions for the future of framework contracts and multiannual funding. I think this is something that we should pay attention to, and we should also tie these steps with the legislative steps that are currently being prepared at the Ministry of Health. The greatest sin, which is not, of course, a sin - I see that the Minister of Health has been disturbed - is not the sin of his personality, but it is therefore an inherited sin - and it is due here to file not from the immediate predecessors, but in tens, perhaps twenty years accumulated, it is not really from the point of view of financing health care, although it is carried out in the same quality and extent, it is simply not paid in the same way for it here. Every hospital, every county. That's wrong. In fact, from my point of view, it is the greatest sin that should be removed as quickly as possible. Of course, this is in the government's plan. However, I must point out as legislation that we are in the middle of the term of office, and we should certainly present these amendments as soon as possible, so that we can also make it as a government by the end of the term of office and ensure this change, for which all the founders have long been waiting. As far as salaries and salary rates are concerned, of course, I could not help but notice the unrest within the medical ranks. And I certainly understand that increasing or continuing to increase the evaluation of health workers is also a matter to be taken into account as Members of Parliament. After all, it is one of the commitments in the Government's programming declaration, and I believe that this government is fulfilling it. And so now, after the final agreement, when not only does the funding for the payment decree increase, but also outside the payment decree, certainly a substantial part of the nearly 11 billion should aim to improve or improve the evaluation of doctors and health professionals. On the other hand, I would like to say that health workers should also honestly admit that in those past years the most significant assessment of them has been made. For one thing, they kept the promise that they had really secured three consecutive times in the budget of raising finance from the point of view of the previous government, and this government continues to do so. That is what I think is important for it to be said. And, of course, not to sleep on laurels, but to be granted that it is this and past government, which in this sense listened to health workers and moved things forward. [[17.20 hours]] Finally, I am very pleased that the current negotiations have moved forward so that the huge amount that I have mentioned here will aim to ensure high-quality healthcare available. And of course, and that is where the proposal for the Social Democracy Club presented by Alena Gajdůškovášková, a Member of our club, is headed, not only by us, but I believe that everyone in the Czech Republic, patients and patients, so that we can be sure that what we agreed on in the negotiations, which was also promised by the Prime Minister, will also be fulfilled and that these funds will actually flow in the way I have described, and we will have these funds under control. I think that this is correct in terms of proper economics, and I believe that this House will support this transparent process. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention, with the fact that, of course, I wish the Ministry of Health to succeed in its legislative proposals in terms of fundamental health reforms, because without them it will not be possible, and I will certainly declare my support for these changes as a coalition MEP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u19	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Kaňkovský, who is enrolled in the general debate. Mr. Svoboda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u20	Good evening. Mr President, dear ministers, dear colleagues, let me also comment on the current health situation in the Czech Republic for the KDU-ČSL club. According to the assumption, we have heard at the outset both at this meeting today and at the last positive list of the Minister about what has recently been successful in health care. I do not want to contradict this, however, what I would like to contradict is a repeated statement in the media that Czech health care is in very good shape, even sometimes it was said that it was not in better shape. Now, I don't want to take the Minister's word for it, but there have been similar statements in the media lately. I certainly am not one of those who knows me, and who wants to talk about Czech health care in some way. I am convinced that the Czech health care, despite a number of problems, provides high-quality health care, but it is necessary to say why. The fact that we have quality health care at the moment is not due to us politicians. This is due to the fact that we have self - sacrificing, enthusiasm-filled paramedics who, despite the enormous amount of overtime and despite the enormous amount of overload, still have the enthusiasm and self - sacrifice and great responsibility in them. So that's the one page. The other side is - or I would say so much about it that the paramedics, of course, have some patience. They've been through a lot over the last few decades, but I don't think it's possible to gamble with their rates. And so, as we talk about how many we are missing today, we need to take care of those who remain in our health care. I'd like to thank them. It's been said here today, and I think it's nice to do it again. Yes, nice paramedics, thank you, but because I'm a paramedic myself, but because I can see that your work at the moment is very difficult because of the level of overload. Minister Vojtěch repeatedly assures já that Czech health care works very well, that it works as a well-oiled machine. And surely everything in Czech health is not wrong. I already mentioned it here. Indeed, we have quality hospitals here, we have quality field care here, but we also have problems that are not spoken of in the media space, or are only mentioned occasionally. And I don't think it's possible for us to tell the public half-truths or in some way chat the public up. I'd like to talk about not just the present, but what we can expect in the coming years. And if we are discussing today that we have a huge staff shortage in our hospitals, and this is not just about the small regional hospitals, it is also about a number of district, large hospitals and clinics, so if we have this problem, we can't cover it up. We really must tell the public that there is a threat to the future and that it is up to us politicians to look for effective measures to minimise those risks. It must be rightly said that the Czech Republic is not the only one dealing with the lack of medical personnel. That means it doesn't just fall on the head of the minister or the government or all of us politicians. But it must also be said that many states are fighting this in a different way from ours. And if we're talking about a raise in health care today, that's a good thing, of course. I also appreciate the fact that in recent years there has been a repeated increase for both doctors, and I would point out that in recent years there has been an increase for nurses and other medical staff. That is, of course, very good. But if we're talking to paramedics who are worried about them at the moment, it's important to say that they don't just mention the salaries anymore. And if we're talking to young doctors who are already working in Germany, Austria, the UK, and we're asking them under what circumstances they'd be willing to come back, they're going to say, well, of course, I'm going to make twice as much here - but what they're talking about is a chaotic education system, both in the undergraduate and postgraduate areas. We also know that we have dealt with this here in the last parliamentary term, that we have amended the law on the education of doctors and on the education of other health professions. Unfortunately, this has encountered some problems with implementing regulations, and as we can see today in some hospitals, the situation has not improved significantly in practice. This is a matter that we should focus intensively on, because that is the impulse for health professionals, both doctors and nurses and other professions, that we care about it and that we want to improve the conditions in their education. And here I would mention one more specific thing that we are not talking about very much, but which, in my view, is crucial in this respect. If we're running into something today in the field of graduate education, it's a critical lack of trainers in some departments. This means that at this point, we have supported a young doctor and this is very good. I appreciate the Minister for that. But we can't work with those trainers right now. Imagine an average internal department in a county hospital with 25 doctors. Of the 25 doctors at the moment, five to seven are all fully qualified. Some of them are retired. And these doctors have to cover all the clinical work, that is, they work in intensive care, counseling, they do consiliar services, and they have to do this by conducting individual stations and they are supposed to train young doctors. At this point, the frustration and loss of this very otherwise ubiquitous enthusiasm among these trainers is immense. Of course, many are considering going off into the field. If a private ambulance is released somewhere, it's much easier for them to go to a private ambulance and take responsibility not only for the clinical work, but also for those young tutors to someone else. Unfortunately, there's no one else in those departments. I mentioned it recently at a press conference. In June 2017, all senior internal clinics and internal departments from all over the Czech Republic addressed an open letter to the then Minister of Health about the crisis situation in internal departments across the Czech Republic and pointed out that if the training of young doctors is not quickly changed, the trainers will not be supported and other systemic steps will not be implemented, so there is a real risk of closing some internal departments or at least some stations. And it must be said that in the two years that have already been in the spirit of this minister, so much has not happened. I don't want to criticize the Minister again. I know he's making an effort in a number of areas, but if anything's really extremely important, it's a solution to the staff shortage, both in hospitals and in the field. [[17.30 hours]] The scissors between the availability of health care in regions and large agglomerations are expanding significantly. I'm from a rural region, I'm not ashamed of it, Highlands is a rural region, and we already have a huge problem with securing some types of specialized care. And it's not super specialized care. He's a rheumatologist, a pediatric psychiatrist, a pediatric neurologist, as well as an adult neurologist and some other expertise. Patients are waiting for an examination in these expertise for a number of weeks and maybe six months in a pediatric psychiatrist. Revmatologist. I'm an orthopedic surgeon, that is. I need to provide rheumatology for a number of my patients. In Havlíčkův Brod district, where I work in the hospital, there has been no rheumatologist's seat for three years. Health insurance companies have repeatedly issued a tender, no rheumatologist has applied. We send patients, and often young patients, with suspicion of rheumatology disease to Brno, to Prague - waiting periods of six months. And if we're talking about improving the availability of biological therapy, for example. for patients with rheumatological diseases, so how are these patients supposed to get to the care when they get it with a huge delay? It is similar with some other diseases. This means that, indeed, the problem of staff shortages is to be addressed intensively both in hospitals and in the field. I know this is not an easy matter, and I also know that the Minister does not have a magic ring to solve this problem immediately. But it also has to do with all the funds that are present. It was said here that after the pressure of the unions and the pressure of the KSČM there was an increase to the payment decree by another 4,9 billion crowns. I certainly appreciate this step very much, but I would just like to say to my colleagues from KSČM that it was far from just KSČM that opened this problem. We have dealt with the crisis crew, I think, representatives of all the MPs in this House. But it's a good thing this is happening. But that's just a short-term effect. We need systemic changes in public health insurance. I'd like to ask the Minister here. We are in the middle of the parliamentary term and we all know that the existing Act No. 48/1997 Coll. was conceived only as a provisional law. So I would like to ask the Minister if he is able to guarantee at this point that he will present the substantive intention of the new Public Health Insurance Act and that he will present systemic changes in the financing of health care in the long term. Because at this point, we are still living through years of abundance. This means, at this point, that it is possible to finance 4.9 billion into the payment decree, but we all know that years will come thinner, that recession will just come. We don't know exactly when, we don't know how deep it's gonna be, we don't know how long it's gonna take, but in any case, public health insurance is gonna jeopardize that. And we need to know how we will be paying for the increasing costs of individual health activities. And here we need to realize that we're only talking about pay. As the former director of the hospital, I can say that I really see the salaries and evaluations of staff as essential. But there has been an increase in other cost items in recent years. In a significant way, especially in hospitals, energy costs have increased. The cost of food and certain medicinal products has increased significantly. And all of this is not sufficiently reflected in the payment mechanisms. This means that we do not need to increase only to salaries, but we need to replace the other costs with health care facilities, and I am not talking about the necessary investments anymore. The minister had an analysis of how much they only need directly managed organizations to finance their investments. We all know what some Prague hospitals look like from the point of view - now I mean mainly construction. These are long-term, long-term underfunded. And we're talking somewhere around 70 billion, which we need to put into directly managed organizations in a relatively short term. And if we did not have the opportunity to finance some of the investments from European funds, which happened especially in the regions, I do not want to imagine what some regions of established hospitals would look like. Dear Minister, perhaps I could talk about what it looks like with health care at the moment, for a long time, but a lot of things have been said here since my colleagues, I do not want to prolong the debate in any way. In any case, I would like to call on you, ask you and the entire government to pay really maximum attention to the health issue. There are few areas of human life that affect basically the fates of each of us throughout our lives. We all need health care at some stage of our lives. Citizens pay attention to what is happening in the health sector to a large extent. And it's up to us politicians to make sure that health care, as I spoke of it at the beginning, is that I consider it to be very good, that it stays for us for years to come, and that it stays for our children. I will mention one more area, it has already been said here in the debate. We still haven't been able to balance the payments in individual regions, we still haven't been able to settle the payments for different types of medical facilities. We've been talking about the DRG reboot project for several years. Once again, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, we heard that it was already the question of the year, year and half when the DRG reboot came into practice. And I would like to ask the Minister if he already knows a specific time when the DRG reboot will actually be fully in practice and when there will actually be a settlement, or at least a convergence of payments for comparable health performances. I firmly believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we can also agree in the framework of the proposed resolutions that health is an area that needs to be addressed here in the Chamber of Deputies, but also in other institutions. Our citizens deserve this because really health care is one of the stability of their lives for them. And I firmly believe that here we can dull a little bit of our political spikes among ourselves and that we can agree on those systemic changes that should probably go more across the political spectrum in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u21	Thank you, too. And Mr Svoboda has the floor, the last one entered into the general debate at the moment. Let me read you a few apologies. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes to Mr Václav Klaus, younger than 18:00, for reasons of work, and she apologises to Mrs Zuzana Majerová, also from 18:00, for reasons of work. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, after all I have heard - and the final talk of my colleague Kaňkovský was really very complex - that I returned to my childhood years. Those are all things that are resounding. They resound and still nothing happens to them. I am sure, like everyone else, very grateful to the Minister for increasing the amount of money as far as possible. And that the amount of money in health care is increasing, that's certainly true. I'm much less grateful to him for saying the decisive no, I'm not giving anything out of the reserves, and then he's going to release $10 billion out of those reserves. This is far worse for me to consider, because after good days come the poor days and you will also have to deal with them. But what is the problem with our health care is a general problem. It's a conceptual problem. How health will continue to develop. The solution that when there are problems, some care is missing, somewhere there are no doctors, somewhere there are no nurses, that we will try to solve it by adding money there is the solution very, very temporary. And there's no end to it. The demand will only grow. What the health sector needs is a conceptual issue; it is a matter of considering how the health sector will develop in the coming years. It is a reflection that is timeless from a parliamentary point of view, from a parliamentary point of view. This reflection on how to go further with health care must go at least over three, better over four parliamentary periods, in order to include about twenty years of development, and in which others and others responded. And we don't have that here at all. We're still dealing with the problems that arise in this situation, the hole that was created there, we're going to somehow seal it, but we're not going to figure out why the hole was created. That's a huge problem. [[17.40 hours]] And that the situation of money isn't entirely decisive... Of course, I'm a lifelong doctor, and I understand that every crown that that doctor or paramedic gets on his tape is money that's important, but how little is important is a demonstration that no one here is saying. That if you want to get the Chief to a small hospital and offer him 150 grand, he won't take it. And you can offer him 100 for being there on Friday to supervise, or on Saturday, on Sunday he'll be there. And he's not gonna take it again. Just because money can't solve the problem. We have two groups of paramedics. One group of paramedics who are qualified and fully responsible for their activities, say, such a typical example is the chief of staff who is responsible for the department. And then we have the young doctors, starting out. And we treat everyone completely wrong. Young doctors, the system of their education, are something I wouldn't want to go through if I was young. It's hugely problematic, just because the rules are constantly changing, the pressure on doctors to do things is changing, and they're moving in two of these special ranges. They have no qualifications, no quotes, no responsibilities. But she's not. On the other hand, they have a duty to do everything, because there is no one to take responsibility for them. There's no one there to teach them. We have some theoretical ideas about how many unqualified doctors must be on one qualified doctor to teach them. And that's not true at all. And most importantly, the doctor doesn't have time for this education at all. Because if there's one or two of them, they have to do the more complicated medical work. And that's the thing we're not dealing with at all. This solution has many options, but there are solutions that already work in the world and that have worked with us. It's a solution to transfer responsibility for education to the manager who's in that facility. It is his responsibility, as he will teach them, and we are only supposed to have some general framework in our education guidelines for the content of the education. But that responsibility must be borne by a doctor who educates him, who is responsible for it. And any such responsibility is worth something, Minister. This means that this education should be part of the evaluation of the head doctor. And unfortunately, as in all of that evaluation, it should also have a rebound. Does that mean the bad guys are leaving me, undereducated? That means I'm doing my job wrong, and her evaluation shouldn't be cutting edge. The problem of young doctors is double. On the one hand, we see that they work a lot of overtime hours, but on the other hand, and there are a lot of doctors in this House, so you all know it, or you feel it, on the other hand, a lot of hours doesn't really have to mean any increase in knowledge or skills at all. They're just putting out fires, and if it burns too much, they might be able to get someone experienced to sort it out. But it's not like they've learned anything. They're not even there because they're in an ambulance somewhere, putting out some fires. On the other hand, the notion that they do not have legal responsibility is very vague. We already have young doctors who've been through court proceedings. We already have young doctors who have been given probation or even unconditional punishment. And, of course, it's a thing that discourages a doctor from going into that clinical operation. The problem, of course, is linked to all other parts of the medical operation. We have non-medical personnel in hospitals, medium-medical or university, who are in analog or very similar situation as those doctors. Their education also does not really take place because they are overwhelmed by work on day-to-day traffic. They have no prospect of development ahead of them. Take the fact that we've created non-medical college students, we've got bachelors, we've got magisters, we've got engineers, we've got computer science. What's their development in health care? Do they have any perspective on what they're gonna be and where they're gonna get paid? They don't have one. It's just because even though we've created a middle-class health care system from grad school to college education, we haven't changed the work of these people. They're still basically there to wipe those patients' asses with forgiveness if I'm to say it the way we say it, who do it for a living. And if we don't give them perspective, the health situation will never change. We must achieve that these college-educated people in health care will be able to take over the part of the work that a doctor has to do today, but it is not purely medical. It'll probably be a little cheaper than the doctor's cost, but most importantly, it'll take him off the scope of his work, taking away a lot of administrative and various other duties, so much that his work situation will be completely different. And these are the things we need to talk about. If we don't deal with this, we'll never deal with personnel problems. They just won't! That kind of money, Minister, is not for you to pay. I know, I know what they offered me if I joined the country as hospital chief. I will never make that kind of money, not even in the Chamber of Deputies! But no one wants to take it, of course. No one's that suicidal. And it's not just that you can make a mistake and you can go to jail. This is about the stress being so difficult and so exhausting that you actually understand at some point that the ratio of money and what condition you're in is immeasurable and that it doesn't make any sense. If we don't deal with this, we won't move a step further. Another thing that health care does not solve conceptually is the principle of its financing. So we still have the Health Insurance Act, which works on the basis of the law, which invented the old Bismarck, who was a marshal, but it is the principle that he built - that is, solidarity of the poor with the rich. And nothing else, we don't really have any other solid source. And it just can't and won't work. If we don't start talking conceptually about how we're going to change the insurance policy, or let's just say how we're going to change the principle of money that goes into health care, we're not going to move a step. Then we'll have these suggestions, so we can regularly valorize. But that doesn't change things, it just increases the burden on the state and doesn't bring any extra money to health. It also has the disadvantage that if it's organized like this, it doesn't matter to patients what it costs. They don't even have any knowledge of how much care costs because it's free. [[17.50 hours]] There's nothing free in the world. And if we offer something for free, we'll turn out the way we do here, if we don't change people's involvement in medical care, personal involvement, whether economic or informational. The first step would have to be that the patients actually knew how much the insurance company spent on their angina or their pancreatic removal. The ideas of these prices are incredibly childish and naive in people and, of course, they are also treating them accordingly, and they are actually being abused accordingly. Everyone just wants the best of the table set, and no one's willing to settle for bread when they can eat a roll. If we don't get involved in creating a commercial insurance system, if we don't get involved in the fact that in some form we'll be able to offer health care with the possibility of putting some extra money into the healthcare system for our person, it won't work at all until then. And watch out, there's a huge mistake here. A huge mistake that Members from the left part of the spectrum constantly present, that at the moment when someone will be able to put some of their resources there, at that point it will mean that they will have better care and the poor will have worse care and not so good quality. This is a fundamental mistake contrary to the principle of insurance. Insurance is the distribution of cost risks, and the greater the amount of funds there - and now it doesn't matter how they got there - the more successful the cost is. And from all the analyses, the insurance results for the patients show that if the room for private insurance opens up, the most profitable are those who don't pay it. It's just because the money's gonna take it out on them. Those who pay extra aren't gonna spend it on you. That would be against the principle of insurance, so insurance just doesn't work. That's what insurance companies do. So paradoxically, unlike the left-wing part of the spectrum, I say that the moment we open this space, we will automatically improve the care of those who will be in the form of some kind of medicine, a medicine, some kind of purely social insurance, as they are established somewhere in the world. Of course, that's another thing you don't do anything about. And we'll find that we don't have the money, that we need to plant it, so there's a regular annual joy cycle at the end of the year, a payment decree. The same exercises are going on, always the same - we want more money. These segments agreed, these segments did not agree, in some form it eventually ended. Now it turned out that, in fact, the reason why this meeting was convened was because the minister gave in and let the money go. But if I ask him, Minister, why, what will they be used for, where the money really was missing, and do you know exactly where it will end up and how it will be used? I say, you don't know, you have no idea what's going to happen to them. That's a thing that's just true. To want more and not to have to say, I want more because I need it, it, it - exactly - it doesn't work that way. The request is logically as high as possible than being smaller. The example may be the construction of hospitals. When hospitals stop and stand up for the state, we move in the billions order, and a hospital like that on some basis is going to be worth five billion. Do you think anyone who would do it as a business plan would invest that amount? He'd do what he could to keep the sum as small as possible. We're doing everything we can to make the sum as high as we can. And then it doesn't have any back-up for the health service. It's not all the better, it's just more expensive at the beginning. The problem of costs, of course, I say it a little bit on the run, because I really feel like an illusion déjà vu, that I've said it a thousand times before and that everyone says it in some form, but nothing ever happens. We're just gonna say it, and if we have a good minister, he agrees with us, but it's no use to him, because he's not gonna do anything, or he can't do anything. It is simply because it is contrary to any election announcements, because in elections we all promise as much as possible and then it has to be fulfilled, or it is some ties that have been created on the basis of coalition agreements. So it's always said, and then it never comes true. The problem is that we want to get into these things. We will also have to reach into the amount of care provided. Now I don't mean just the specific individual cases. I mean, definitely places. I mean, absolutely clearly, medical facilities. If we're talking about hospitals that are or have problems today, it's because they don't actually have patients. They don't actually have patients. Don't shake your head, it's true. [[He responds to the Members in the O.R.]] They just can't make money. And why is that? Why is that? I don't know. All I know is that when I come to the Upper Lower, they tell me that the hospital wants to be there, that it's always been there and that it has to be there. And if there's anything wrong with them, they'll call me if I don't take them to Prague. And that's what we have to deal with. We need to find the courage to process the network in proportion. I do not want to say that we have more doctors per capita, although we lack them that we have significantly more acute beds than they are anywhere throughout Europe. We're short of chronic beds again, but it's about other money. The numbers are available. It's all written here. It's not my numbers, it's the numbers that are the numbers of the statistical authorities, which are the numbers of the ministry, and they're essentially a match. The difference is a few percent. And, of course, we need to adapt medicine to what medicine is today. The medicine really is that it's basically about superspecialized care, because in that hospital or even in that expert it's not enough to have a phonenoscope and fingers to knock something out, you have to have some instrumental equipment to do it. Instrumental equipment is expensive to learn to work with it, you have to do enough exams, otherwise you can't do it and it's gray-black shadows on the screen for you. These are all the means that go beyond the benefit of the patient, and that's why the one patient, before he's diagnosed, has three or four repeats of the exact same laboratory examination. By the time the patient gets to the hospital, he's got five blood counts done every other day, he's got all kinds of lab tests, but it's not going anywhere, and there's no exit. Just the money that costs it. [[18.00 hours]] It's just that the idea that we had, and we have, and a lot of years is still working on it, is that we actually have to have the kind of bed care that's capable of taking care of some level that's consistent with today, today's world. In order to have that, we need to consider how much such equipment we need. I am convinced that we need to go to a country where you can reach the second point smoothly on the road, and if I overlook the Krkonose Mountains or some of the sections where you can't go up a few months a year, so everything in our country is available, the ambulance, also one of the economic health problems, will fly everywhere, so we should have instead of those hospital outpatients perfectly equipped equipment that is able to make a diagnosis in the shortest possible time, a basic diagnosis, pointing the diagnosis so that the patient in the next one can go to a hospital that can do what's wrong with him. I can give you a simple example. It's got to be a hospital that's able to do a heart surgery, do a catheterization, make sure the defect doesn't develop there, or solve a brain episode that threatens to develop in the brain, and the patient becomes permanently affected. And a device like this should just have an ambulance running in front of it, and the moment the doctors find out something that requires a solution, they're gonna take it to the hospital, not drive it over four or five medical devices before it gets to the workplace that cures it. In addition to losing time and that there may be irreversible damage to the patient, each trip to that hospital costs virtually the same money and our costs per patient steeply, but really steeply going up. And on the other hand, the hospital facilities have to be that they're able to deal with this thing. And we all need to know, or all the paramedics need to know that this is a facility where they're gonna do anything to me except neurosurgery, so I can say a problem, so they don't send a patient like that, so they don't send him to a facility where the department that should be doing it isn't really, or isn't equipped enough. Of course, we can achieve that devices that are expensive will be busy, and when they are busy, the return on their price is, of course, much faster. I was in Tel Aviv, there have a number of health care that we wouldn't want to have anything to do with, but they have one very interesting thing. The investments in those computer tomographers, the radiation devices are actually in large hospitals in Tel Aviv, but they work there in some sections for two shifts, i.e. eight and eight hours, so 16 hours a day. And there are workplaces, like the MRI's been running there for 24 hours. And that's where they import patients for examination from all over Israel. They're gonna get him there, they're gonna stop there at one o'clock in the morning, they're booked, they're done at two o'clock, and they're gonna go home, and they're gonna computerally send him to their hospital, and they can work with him, they can twist him, they can enlarge him, they can paint him, they can do anything like they're there. And of course, the machine, which normally has a period of about seven, eight years before its price is paid for three years. Of course, it means significant earnings for the hospital, and it also means that it can innovate devices more often, complement them with new ones, because when you buy an expensive machine for expensive money, in six months there is another better one, so it just runs in medicine. And we have to realize that in the health care system, it's just a simple ditching drill costs today - what, like, eight hundred, if I'm not mistaken. Do you know how much the same tap drill costs, the same one, just from the material so it can be sterilized, for orthopedics? It's moving about 100 grand. And so you have it all. Once it has a health label on it, the price is multiplied, but not in order, a hundredfold. And all of this just has to be investigated in some form. You could really talk about it forever. One more thing I would like to say is that the concept that the Ministry is making, and the concept that the next ministry should be doing for the next ministry, or for the other three, must also work with the development of health care. The development of health care has three fundamental things in it. One is what we know safely today, that we will age, that the number of old people will grow and that the turning year is somewhere around 2040, when they will just begin to dominate you over 65 over those up to 65. And of course, this age will have a completely different medical issue. Those old people, even though they are actually living in relatively good shape today, have a higher frequency of cancer just because the cell meets with a much larger number of impulses to develop a tumor in that life. It's said that every organ has had eight cancer launches at 80 years of life, but only that one can get past the immune barrier that these people have. So the diseases are going to grow there, they're going to change. We have to assume that virtually all of humanity will have diabetes. It's just because today we're gonna lead diabetic mothers into giving birth, that they can carry the baby, and the genetic transfer is just significantly high there, and it's got to grow. Before, it wasn't just because diabetic babies weren't born. Not that it's not true. It's true. The numbers are, I'll pull them out for you, then we can sit on it. Sit down with Professor Anděl sometime and discuss the diabetes. [[Mr. Kasal.]] The problem is that the diseases are going to change, and we need to adapt it to the health care in advance so that we can be prepared for it, because it's possible that we won't need any kind of medical care, and on the other hand, we're going to need too much. And we need to adjust education tonight so that we don't get in a situation where we have diseases that we don't have a doctor for, and we don't have medical equipment for them. It may be that we simply will not have a physician for children and adolescents, as we speak. So the view, the prediction of what sickness will be, what age composition will be, but also the prediction of what medicine will be able to do instrumentally, what the doctor will not need, and what he will do, and what is to be invested in, and what is not to be invested in, are simply things that need to be analyzed. And here at the moment, and that's the thing that I would like to say in conclusion, it's not about moving in some area that I call the impressionology. This is an analysis of hard facts that need to be collected, those facts need to be dealt with, and on the basis of those facts, the further development of what will be the health and what we will all need as patients in the coming years. There's a very serious problem with the analysis of the data. We need the data so processed that we know what the effectiveness of this health care is. We are saying nicely today that health care is doing well, and it is true, it seems that our results in those things that can be compared are comparable to Europe, or even in a number of parameters better, but we need to know exactly. We need to know what the therapeutic results of each health facility are, how the health facility treats it and what the results are, what the percentage of complications it has, what the number of re-operations it has, what the number of untreated, who have retired, for example, disability. It's a public farm, that's what people have the right to do. And we have to make sure they have that information. As long as they don't have it, they won't choose the medical facility according to what it is, but they'll choose it based on whether it's close and their grandmother's bike rides there, or your grandmother gets a dumpling more because there's a lady in the kitchen who lives next to them in the village. [[18.10 hours]] I know all those things. I lost it years ago as president of the chamber. When we were planning to reform health care and cancel a whole series of medical facilities, I was driving all over the country, talking to these people. So I know what makes them want to have a hospital, and I also know that there are hospitals that, for personnel reasons, will just do the last blood work on Friday and Monday, so the appendix that comes in there is kind of unlucky because they won't examine it. So the quality information is a public farmhouse, and people must have a right to know it. Just as they have a right to know how much the care she's given them. And that's oddly complicated today. See if you can figure out how much your hospitalization cost. This is such a complex calculation that you won't actually know it, you know that after a certain distance period, because there are a number of factors involved, as the price is calculated. And completely backwards, to start from the other end too, at the moment we know that some hospitals in that top-notch care are really top-notch, so we have to say, "B." Top-notch care is expensive because it requires top-notch devices and they're expensive. And it requires top staff, nonmedical and medical, and it's expensive. And it's got to be expensive, or we can't keep those workplaces at that level. Those are all the things you have to count on. And it will have to disappear communist egalitarianism: everyone - as little! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to a point of fact, I'll read a few apologies. Mrs Helena Válková apologizes between 18 and 19 o'clock for work reasons. Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes from 17.45 until the end of the meeting day for work reasons. Mr Richter apologizes from 18.15 to the end of the day for working reasons. Your point of order, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I am not a doctor, I rather see it from the outside, not from the inside. But I will take this opportunity, and it will basically be a question for the Minister. First-aid medical services, now it's called medical emergency services to use the right name, maybe now I'm gonna get angry, which I don't want to, but I'm gonna piss off colleagues who are practical doctors, even though I respect them as much as I do, but maybe I'm gonna piss them off a little bit. Who today serve medical emergency services? Very few practitioners. Who's going to sub for it? An ambulance subpoenas her - I'm looking at a colleague - and a hospital subpoenas her, which, of course, costs the hospital. [[Mr Brazdil, who nods]] It's a burden to the staff, it's a burden to the doctor. Today, practical doctors are businessmen. It's okay. I'll take it. I don't mind, of course. I was a businessman myself. They have an insurance contract. The contract guarantees them income. What businessman has that? None to guarantee his income. They're getting a capital payment. And I think, Minister, that they, too, should have a certain obligation to the treaty. The obligation to serve certain hours of emergency service, either in his office or even in the hospital. So I would like to ask, Minister: Is it considered that health insurance contracts are subject to these obligations?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u25	Thank you. One more de facto... two. So first, Mr Kobza, then Mr Kasal. Real notes. I remind you that we are still in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister if he were so kind as to tell us what it looks like to build a trauma center at Vinohrady Hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u27	Thank you for the brief factual remark. Now, Mr. Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Just a brief comment on my previous speaker through Mr President. We had a proposal for practical doctors to serve in hospitals, respectively. to educate themselves in the form of serving in a hospital. And the medical chamber didn't agree to it or the individual unions. That was it. Two years ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u29	Thank you. I ask if anyone is still interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. I see no one, I end the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words after the general debate. Mr. Secretary? Not interested. The rapporteur? Not interested. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail. I am opening up a detailed debate and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková is the first to join it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, the honourable Chamber of Deputies, as I have already announced in the general debate, I will read the motion for a resolution, which I will, however, allow myself once again to comment a little on in relation to the proposed points. Again, health care is a key public service and should be available to all equally in the quality it is able to provide. I cannot agree here with what my honourable colleague Svoboda has said here, because he has opposed himself a little bit through the President. First of all, if he said that the distribution of care to any additional insurance will mean that everyone will still receive the care the same way that it won't mean that someone gets something extra, then I don't know why someone would pay for the extra insurance if they got the same service as the one who wouldn't pay it. I guess it's just not a good way to go. However, as patients, I wish the health care system to be stable for the Union of Patients of the Czech Republic. That is why we need to look not only at the financing system, but obviously we will have to have fun, and I would very much agree with Mr Svoboda on how to set up a kind of health care hierarchy. I don't think any medical facility can do anything. I don't think that would be for the benefit of the patients. But we also need to look at the patient's movement through the system, see if we're sending the patient over to the hospital after the tests. This, of course, burdens patients, and it affects the system, whether financially or in time. The motion for a resolution, which I have announced, is divided into three points. I will request separate votes on individual points. This introductory provision, with point number one, of course, is that "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that the current situation in the area of personal health care is serious, and therefore calls on the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Czech Republic to systematically address the lack of all healthcare workers and to create legislative and financial conditions for maintaining the existing and income of new employees of all categories to ensure quality health care." This item, as well as item number two of the proposed resolution, addresses the current situation. I want to underline that it is intended to address not only the salaries of doctors, but also the salaries of nurses, lower medical staff and staff of the so-called maid, whether they are cookbooks, cleaners, or technicians in medical facilities. It turns out that even these people are missing, and without them, the medical facilities can't function either. Their salaries are also not appropriate to the importance of the health status and should have a position among public services. [[18.20 hours]] Item number two, I will now quote the motion for a resolution: "The appropriations promised in excess of the payment order of 6 billion. Therefore, the Ministry and the Government would divide the basic payments and unjustified differences for the health care paid in a transparent manner.' Here I am referring specifically to the experience from the Zlín Region, where, compared to the height of the money per head, i.e. per capita in the health insurance system, it is simply the lowest. The difference is up to 35,000 per citizen, which, of course, is not justified. This applies, of course, not only to the Zlín Region, as far as I know, it is also a matter of the Moravian-Silesian Region, the Vysočina Region and Olomouc Region. It's about getting things straight. That is why this is going - and there is this wording beyond the payment decree, because if we were to decide these funds, which would be decided by the government, virtually. The Ministry has decided that it will go beyond the decree, so that it will match the differences. I have to say here that we've been trying to make a deal, and now I'm talking about social democracy, so that these things are in the payment decree, so that it's saturated, so that the outlook for the future is positive for the health system, but the government has decided, virtually. The Ministry has decided, and we respect that, but in that case, we believe that it must be directed to where the unjustified differences have been so far. The third point is directed specifically towards the future. Again, I quote: 'that the Ministry and the Government lay down a mechanism for valorisation of payments for state insured persons from 2021 so as to gradually achieve an increase in the amount of funding to healthcare comparable to the EU average, i.e. around 9 percent of GDP'. Here I will also appeal to Mr Kaňkovský's speech, who pointed out that if there was an economic problem, the payment for the state insured is the one that stabilizes the system. I said that in my general speech, in the general debate too. I have to point out here, after the debate and a little bit in the gallows, that there is a date of 2021, that we should prepare this next year with the fact that the previous government has taken measures since 2017 to increase payments for state insured persons in this year and in 2020. So, in a way, the need is covered. We need to talk about this system since 2021. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I have asked for a single vote and I ask you to support the motion for a resolution at your discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u31	Thank you, Madame. Next up, it's for a detailed debate... I'm sorry, with priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Then President Excellent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask Mrs GajdůGajdůšková if she would be so kind as to give us her resolution in writing as well. I have it from colleagues from other political parties so that we can compare it, if necessary, before we vote. However, it is quite strange when a member of the government is actually tasking the government and giving tasks to the government. Why not, MEPs can suggest it, however, in the last six years, I think the Ministry of Health has been managing ministers for the Czech Social Democratic Party for four years. And I feel when I read the Minister's public appearance that he is different in his view of the current condition and the state of Czech health care with what Mrs GajdůGajdůšková has presented here. I think it would be wise for us, if possible, when all our colleagues have read their proposals for a resolution, before we conclude a detailed debate, that the Minister should tell us how he stands with the individual - whether we can still debate with him or not, not only to give us an agreed, neutral or negative opinion on individual bills. I think that the figure of how much percentage of the public service sector goes towards GDP is essentially fair. If I listened well to the Member, she said that her ambition was for 9 percent of GDP to go to health. Now I just didn't understand whether from public sources or from private sources, that's very important for the debate. Because if we say it's only from public sources, it's, if I count in my head, it's 504 billion. If we're going to work with about 1% of GDP being 56 billion, I think this year's GDP is estimated to be something 5.613 beat. CZK, so 9 per cent by multiplying you by a simple number is 504 billion. If it were to come from public sources or from what they pay to the payer, it is a really dramatic increase in payments, whether to the State, which is just otherwise called taxpayers' money, or our employees and our companies, who pay their health insurance. And that number seems incredibly high at this point when we compare it to the number we're working with for this year or next year. So I don't know exactly because, of course, there is involvement in the whole health system, which is the private money, and it's very important in the debate whether it's total, or just public money, it means either payments for state insured people who pay the state, or payments for health insurance, which are paid by those who simply have to pay it. Of course, there is nothing against coalition partners exchanging a proposal with a microphone in the Chamber of Deputies, but when I look at the resolutions that we have so far, I often find them too specific in terms of date, and I do not think they address the key questions that they focus on individual, as I would say, unimportant, but on individual details or individual parts of the system as a whole. I think my colleague, Mr. Docent Svoboda, has been talking about the system as a whole, and that is not what the debate is about yet and should be conducted. Easy on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, at a point before a specific legislative proposal is prepared. I understand the view that, for example, in the Zlín Region there is a per capita remuneration, as you said, by 35 thousand - about a year - less, but the number does not actually tell us anything. I'm sorry. The number itself does not tell us anything, because we say it, I would say, I would hate to, but I hope that we agree with the Minister that health is the only field, let's say economic activity, she is not just... where it does not apply according to quality and performance. [[Nesroz.]] That's where we should direct our attention. The same quality services should be paid for anyway. Not that services that are the same regardless of quality should be paid anyway. On the contrary, this is very dangerous for the system if we only talk about payment and we do not say that we also require the necessary quality. [[18.30 hours]] If we're talking about the same quality of money being the same, we're signing it for civil democrats. If we say we're supposed to pay for so-called quality, we just can't sign it because it's not right and it's against the interest of patients because the patient wants a quality service. And I didn't quite get it from the show, so think of it as a question, not a criticism or just a filipica. That's not what we're talking about. We patients have relatively little information on which hospital is provided better care and in which worse. I know it's complicated, it's not a simple task as putting together a 100-meter running table. That's where it's measured, and it's easy. But it should start somewhere. I admit that many patients actually vote for the hospital according to their place of residence. That he doesn't have the opportunity to compare or want to compare, he won't be able to compare the quality, but we shouldn't give up on that information. I think it's the role of health insurance primarily. I don't think that's the role of the state. Because sometimes we also confuse the role of the Ministry of Health and the role of health insurance companies in those debates in the Chamber of Deputies. It is as if the Ministry of Health has 100% responsibility for everything in the health system. And that's just not true. The Ministry of Health, the Government, the House and the Senate have full responsibility for the environment of legislative, economic, all of it. But for this care as such, they have a much greater responsibility to a particular health insurance company. You need to know, and you need to know where better care is provided and where worse. And patients deserve to get that information. Maybe even commenting that the results are worse for logical reasons, that it can't be any other way. I understand all that. But if we resign from the quality assessment, it's not in the patient's interest. And I think that in these debates we should primarily accentuate the interests of patients. All my colleagues will forgive me, but I think there's just more of these patients. I do not know exactly what the Association of Patients was spoken for by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. I'm a patient, and I'm sure I'm not organized or wanted to be in any union. But each of those patients or in the family of those patients have some particular experience with a specific medical facility or with a specific doctor. So even I don't have the right to speak for patients like I do for all patients. But what I think we should do - provide as much information as possible to patients about treatment options, about the quality of treatment, about the availability of treatment. And if you ask patients like we ask what they see in the biggest problem of Czech health care, it will not be that they are not satisfied with the quality, but with the waiting time. And that's a big problem. And it's not a political problem, it's not even a clash of government versus opposition, right to the left. We should find measures to reduce the waiting times for the examination, for the surgery, but especially for the examination. Because the doctors will tell you that there's often a difference if you're going to the exam tomorrow, at the end of October, or you'll get the deadline next March. And that is a real problem that will actually confirm to you, I would say in all regions. No matter how much the hospital receives specific payments from health insurance companies. That's the thing we should be dealing with together. I will just ask for the resolution if it is in writing before we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u33	There. In the same way, I would ask if you would bring the resolution up here, so that we have, everyone puts the resolution forward, so that we have an overview. Yes. President of the KDU-ČSL Member Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor. And Mrs Hana Aulická will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, Minister, colleagues. I'll be disproportionately briefer than my previous speaker. However, we have moved fluently from the general debate to the debate in detail, and I must say that I am a little surprised, because I have listened not all of them, but many of those speeches by colleagues, under the KDU-ČSL here presented a very detailed reflection of the state of health, colleague Vít Kaňkovský, spoke here Professor Svoboda, spoke here Social Democratic Member Votava and others and there were a number of absolutely relevant questions about the Minister, which were not just one hospital somewhere in Horní Dolní, but which concerned the legislative process, the Public Health Insurance Act etc. etc. - and what happened? I kept waiting for those answers. Not an hour's Filipica, but the Minister's coming out and answering questions. And apparently the Minister has decided to stay silent here until the collapse of Czech health care. That's all. Like bravo, I applaud. [[♪ Claps ♪]] I think we're here to hear the answers, Minister, from you, and not that we're going to keep our mouths shut here until... I don't know if anyone here told you to. But I consider this, on the one hand, to be quite undignified to fellow Members, including your government fellow Members and Members, and I consider this at least a path that simply does not lead to debate and debate on the ground of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u35	Well, thank you. Have a good evening again. So now, in a detailed debate, Mrs Hana Aulická will speak and Mrs Karla Maříková will prepare herself. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I will no longer be as eloquent as my previous speakers, and I will really only read the motion for a resolution. They got him, I think, all the clubs, so they could get ready enough to say how they're gonna do it, or decide how they're gonna vote. This means that we are putting forward a motion for a resolution in the following text: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Health and the Government of the Czech Republic [[I.]] to continue the system measures in available and high quality health care in the Czech health sector; II. By the end of November 2019, she replied to the questions relating to health care provided in the introduction to this point. - I would just like to say here that, of course, I have also referred these questions to this motion for a resolution; III. take measures to stabilise revenue into public health insurance; IV. support the adoption of the law on regular and automatic valorisation of payments for state insured persons; V. ensured a transparent transfer of increased negotiated funds through the payment decree and the health insurance plans for 2020, in particular to those areas of health care where the situation is the worst, such as small hospitals, stabilization of health personnel and home care.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u37	Thank you and I would like to ask if you could also deliver the resolution to me upstairs. So now, in a detailed debate, Mrs Karla Maříková will speak. And Mr. Petr Třešňák will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I said in the general debate, I would also read the motion for a resolution, which is divided into two points, and I would ask for a separate vote. So... I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Health to inform the Chamber of Deputies what steps and systemic solutions he is preparing to resolve the personnel crisis in the health sector. II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Ministry of Health to develop a long-term concept of health care, as will ensure quality and available health care in the following years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u39	Thank you. And I will also ask for the resolution to come up to me. The next one will be Mr. Petr Třešňák. I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the courtroom. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u40	I will also be very brief. In fact, the following resolution should not cause a problem to the government at all, because it has already undergone the substantive intention of the Act on the Electronisation of Health and, in fact, it could have already been completed by the end of this year in paragrafo. However, I have a slightly compromise resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is asking the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a legislative proposal for the electronisation of health by April 2020 in paragrafo.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u41	Thank you, and I would also ask you for this resolution up here. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, now with a factual remark. And yet he has an interest in speaking to the de facto Mrs Aulická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u42	Thank you for the floor. In fact, my de facto is a response to point four of the resolution that has just been made, where it is said that health care is to be improved, where care is the worst. This means that there will be relatively more money than they deserve with their activities there. It's kind of a bonus. And the good hospitals, they have malus. They get less. There's no way we can vote on something that someone gets more for being wrong, doing it wrong, and the one who does it right, gets nothing. So this item of the resolution cannot be voted in my opinion because it creates an inequality between those health institutions, nothing but the fact that they are so-called bad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u43	Thank you. Now, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Please, your two minutes. Really?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u44	Yes. Thank you, Mr President. Just a briefing. Sorry about that, I forgot to say, after reading the motion for a resolution, that, of course, I also ask to vote on points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u45	I also wanted to ask Mrs GajdůGajdůšková whether by points or in whole. [[On points.]] On points? On points. And the pirát only have one point, so it's clear there. So now I would like to call for a speech as the last Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u46	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to introduce you to the motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on paragraph 312 for the KDU-ČSL. As I have already announced, I think that the issue that we are discussing today is not only about the very current health situation, but mainly about the risks that they have towards the future. That is why this resolution, in particular under number one, is aimed at a longer-term objective, which means a change in public health insurance. So the motion for a resolution is: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to: I. submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a substantive proposal for a new law on public health insurance by 31 March 2020. II. by 31 January 2020, the Chamber of Deputies submitted a proposal for measures to strengthen the role of trainers in health professions, including their corresponding financial evaluation; III. up to 31. 12. 2019 has submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a timetable for the application of the DRG Restart programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u47	Thank you and I will ask you for a motion for a resolution on my behalf. And if you wish, Mr. Ambassador, on points? On points. So it's also point-by-point. Now with priority rights, as last so far in a detailed debate, the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u48	Thank you for the floor. I must say that the proposals of the club KSČM and the club ČSSD are against each other, and I would like to clarify with the Minister what is possible and what is not possible. Then we can decide whether it's right or wrong. In point two, social democracy colleagues propose that the promised funds - apparently the result of Andrej Babiš's negotiations with Vojtěch Filip - go beyond the payment decree. In other words, outside the payment order. Beyond that, it means out. That means, I'm asking if that's even possible. Who would share the six billion? Minister of Health, Vojtěch Filip or Andrej Babiš, insurance company? Out of the payment order. That's out of line, the proposal's out, and I don't think that's entirely possible. I don't think it's entirely possible that we give the insurance company money and she somehow splits it up. So I want to ask if that's possible. Then we can argue whether it's a good thing or a bad thing. And the second thing, it's the KSČM club proposal again. And so did Professor Svoboda. However, in the payment decree - I can be confused, I say, I am not an expert - it does not distinguish between small and large hospitals. Is it? Here is the motion for a resolution to send the payment decree to small hospitals. In my opinion, this is not possible again, as is the point two proposed by the Social Democracy Club. Then, in my opinion, the resolutions are unvoting, because the legislation does not allow it. And it doesn't really matter whether it's majority support or not, because the correct answer will be: even if we approve it, it's not possible. Then the resolutions are completely useless, and there is no point in arguing over content, whether it is good or bad. I understand that if it is proposed in that paragraph five in the resolution of the KSČM that a payment decree is intended to favour domestic care, it is certainly possible. But in those little hospitals, I just don't think it's possible. I would ask the Minister before the vote whether it is possible or not, and then we will decide. In my opinion, these two resolutions, which I have read from the documents we have received from our colleagues, are not voteable. Then we should not vote on them, but I would like to hear it from the Minister of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u49	Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková is now reporting with a point of fact, and the Minister also wishes to speak subsequently. So, first of all, two minutes for the lady of the house. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u50	Thank you for the floor. Just quickly and I assume that the Minister will explain it even further and more precisely. But our information is that the payment decree is closed, the six billion is in a way extra, and we're just expressing our opinion on where it should go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u51	Now, then, the Minister with priority rights. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer the specific questions. It is possible, and it is not a political agreement. Indeed, the six billion go beyond the payment decree. And it's a deal directly with health insurance companies. Since the payment decree is merely a basis, the payment decree is not a ceiling. So, beyond the payment decree of the health insurance company, which, as President Stanjura rightly said, is responsible for ensuring the temporal and local availability of health services, so, of course, they must have targeted payment mechanisms that we are not able to put in that general document called the payment decree, but which health insurance companies should have in excess so that they can actually address problems in regions, in specific locations, in border areas. And, of course, the payment decree cannot be written by supporting hospitals in border areas and the like. So the six billion crowns are really beyond the payment decree within the framework of individual payment mechanisms, and it is legislatively possible, and health insurance companies have this scope, let's say, to address targeted support for primary care, practitioners somewhere in remote areas and so on, which is something we simply cannot solve in that payment decree, which is actually a printed document. And so is the point that was actually mentioned here, so he's just saying that securing funds through a payment order and health insurance plans. And health insurance plans, that's basically a law for insurance companies, it's their budget. It's their plan to split the money. And of course, in these health insurance plans, both the money from the payment order and the six billion additionally distributed among the seven health insurance companies is calculated fairly, where health insurance companies are just counting on supporting regional hospitals, border areas and so on. So this is possible, the legislation makes it possible. And I think it's even right that we give room to those health insurance companies who are simply responsible for providing health care for their insured people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u53	The President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Your two minutes, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u54	Thank you for your explanation. So it's possible, so we can vote on it. However, I do not fully understand if I take your word for it, Minister, you said that this is a proposal from health insurance companies that will somehow divide the six billion. I thought this was the design of Andrej Babiš and Vojtěch Filip. aha, so it was already clear before they met and announced that they had found six billion. That's the first option that the health insurance companies wanted it. Now the Prime Minister met with the Communist Prime Minister and said the Communist Prime Minister said - we would like more money. And the Prime Minister, who has more information, says -- that's okay, that's what the insurance companies want, let's go report it. And they went to report it. Well, I'm making fun of it because I don't believe it. And I'd like you to explain it to me. Then the negotiations were completely unnecessary and confused not only the public but also the political competition. Turn on the press conference, look at President Filip's face, how happy he was that he arranged it. What did he do when the insurance companies wanted it? He didn't negotiate anything. That's just a comment on who found six billion. So they were health insurance companies, nice citizens. It wasn't the Prime Minister, it wasn't the Chairman of the KSČM, it was the health insurance companies. Those two just want to claim the health insurance proposal. Second point, more serious. It doesn't exactly calm me down when I hear that somebody's actually gonna split the six billion without making the rules clear. That really didn't make me feel any better. I trust the Minister that it is possible. I have no reason to argue with him about this, but it didn't calm me down. That's taxpayers' money, so who's gonna split it up? The board of directors of specific insurance companies, we who approve health insurance plans? Or who's going to make the real decisions and who's going to make sure that the six billion is distributed fairly, or at least roughly fairly? Because absolute justice doesn't exist. That would have to be crazy, and that's just complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u55	Minister with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u56	Thank you for the floor. Just to explain. Mr Stanjura was not here at the beginning of the debate when I was describing the actual conclusion of the negotiations. Six billion have always been agreed with health insurance companies beyond payment orders within targeted levels of mechanisms and what is the result, but he was mainly the result of negotiations with care providers, is 4,9 billion. That means there was a payment decree with a proposal of $24 billion. Moreover, the payment decree includes 4.9, which means we are somewhere at the level of 29 billion in the payment decree plus 6 billion in excess of the payment decree up to 35 billion. So that's how it's folded. That's the change. This means, not 6 billion, but 4.9 billion for the payment decree. And otherwise, I don't think it's anything that's ever been special, either, because, I mean, the six billion, really, the payment decree is always just the basis. By its very nature, the úhradový decree is not able to affect all individual problems in the Czech health sector, I repeat again, all regional differences and so on. This means a health insurance company, if it is to fulfil its role of ensuring temporal and local availability, so it has to bonify, it has to bonify, for example, specific providers within specific regions, etc. There's got to be some rules, there's got to be some justification, it's got to be auditable. Of course, we control health insurance companies together with the Ministry of Finance, and at the SAO they control etc., but I don't think that's a bad thing. On the contrary, I think that this is the right way to address individual problems that simply cannot be affected by the payment decree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u57	I have two factual points here, virtually. applications. Mr Pavel Plzák will be the first to speak and the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Please, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u58	Thank you. Hurry up. I understand your colleague Stanjura's question. How to split it up. On the one hand, this will be discussed, the health insurance plan, now on Tuesday, the Board of Directors of the VZP and the Working Group on Thursday, and it will certainly be one of the important points of the negotiations. But I imagine, first, dealing with the founders, with the regions where there are problems in hospitals and why. But another thing to justly divide it is an option - every hospital has its basic rate, which is multiplied by the case mix, which means the set of performances that the hospital performed. And the basic rate isn't the same for all hospitals. It's historically and unfortunately some hospitals because of how funding has been set up - I don't want to elaborate here, I can imagine we need to talk about the hospitals that have the low standard rate on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u59	Now, with a factual remark from the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u60	I'm sorry, Minister. The longer you explain, the less I understand. Maybe there's a problem on my side, so I'd better ask. What did the Prime Minister actually negotiate with the President of the KSČM? I really didn't get it. Whether 6 billion or 4.9. You said 6 no, 4.9 to the payment order, but the Social Democrats said that the payment decree was already done. So I have a question about when it was done and when the 4.9 billion got there. I really don't understand, because I think the meeting went on last week. [[A voice from the diaper.]] Madam, I'm sorry. He says don't react. That's great. So we don't react, we don't know, we can go home. Hooray. Five billion of taxpayers' money is not so small. And I think I have a right to ask where the $5 billion came from. It's taken from the reserves, I understand. But when was the payment decree done? I'll ask my colleague and colleagues: have you ever seen the patterns that count...? We did. Many do, many don't. I once wanted to upset your predecessor, Minister, Minister Ludvík, so I asked him to just read it to me, the formula. I have a technical education. I'm a programmer and I haven't been able to read it properly. That wasn't the third over two, integral. I don't know who invented it. It is said that five people in the Czech Republic understand this, it is quite possible. It's a huge formula. So it was possible to add 4.9 billion to the formula at the end, or at the beginning? And when did the money get there? That's not a trivial thing, a payment order. I don't know if the Constitutional Court has already ruled on the complaints of senators about the creation of a payment order, I don't know, but it's all just not transparent. I think the vast majority of people don't know how it comes out. Yes, he may know the sum at the beginning and then the specific performances where they're rated, but someone would explain to us what the mathematical formulas are, what they're working with, it's impossible to explain, but it's divided by hundreds of billions. It's just complicated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u61	Now with a factual remark to Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. So far, the final application for de facto. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u62	Thank you for the floor. I'd also like an explanation. So at this point, we have a law that goes to insurance companies in addition to 4.9 and 6 billion, each by different mechanism. But on the way out, the insurance company is supposed to pay for the same activity to some hospitals differently or more. All this time, I've been hearing from the left side of the spectrum and from the medical union club that everything has to be paid the same way. There is no claim. The care is the same. That's what we've been hearing all along. I have a completely different idea about this. I don't think it is. But it's true. And now, against this fact that we're constantly fighting, we're fighting the screams of the medical chamber, asking that all hospitals receive the same, so that there's no historically higher payments. It was historically created so that the hospitals couldn't show it and created the basis inadequate and then hard to get higher. But the whole time the left is fighting it, and right now, at this point, we're actually officializing the mechanism that we're giving someone more. And when I say I'd like to give more to those who are better, I'm bad, and I hear whistling from the left. If the Minister can explain the difference, give the worse and the better, I'd like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u63	Now, with a factual remark, Mr Roman Onderka. You're not checking in. I'm gonna smash you again. I no longer see any application for a detailed debate, so I am ending this detailed debate. Now I ask for interest in the final words. Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? Are you interested in the final words? You're not interested in final words. So we will now proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled. I will engage and call the honourable Members to the Chamber. There's an interest in checking you out, so I'll check you out. Log in again with your voting cards. I would now ask the rapporteur to show us the amendments. I register that, in essence, all multi-point proposals, which are all except Pirates, will be voted on individually. So we will begin with Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková's proposal on behalf of the CSSD. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u64	Yes. Mr President, colleagues, we have had five proposals. We'll vote first -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u65	We can't hear! I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the courtroom. Members complain that they can't hear. I'm gonna ask you to calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u66	A total of five motions for a resolution were gathered. From Mrs Gajdůšková, Mrs Aulická, Mrs Maříková, Mr Třešňák and Mr Kaňkovský. Everyone, except Mr Třešňák, is asking for a vote after points. First, we will vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Gajdůšková, where the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that the current situation in the area of personal care is serious. It therefore calls on the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Czech Republic, first, to systematically address the lack of all healthcare workers and to create legislative and financial conditions for maintaining existing and receiving new employees of all categories to ensure quality health care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u67	Then we all know what we're going to vote on. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 134, registered by 154 Members, for 60, against 19. The motion was denied. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u68	Two. Promised funds in excess of the payment decree of CZK 6 billion -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u69	I'm sorry, I just... Chairman of the ODS Club. [[Off the microphone.]] Yes, it is not a law, so the day of the hearing is within 21 hours, Mr President, but thank you for the remark that we were able to clarify. So we have time, and we have time for the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u70	So the next point is: The promised funds in excess of the payment decree of 6 billion have been distributed transparently and have achieved the settlement of basic payments and unjustified differences in the amount of health care paid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u71	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 135, 154 Members signed in for 29 against 23. The motion was denied. The motion has not been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u72	A point number three: It has established a mechanism for valorisation of payments for state insured persons since 2021, so as to gradually achieve an increase in the amount of funding to health care comparable to the EU average, i.e. about 9 per cent of gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u73	I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 136, 154 Members registered, for 13, against 15. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. So that settles the ČSSD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u74	Yes. And then we have--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u75	I am asking for peace in the Chamber because some Members do not hear the motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u76	Next, we will address the proposal of Mrs Aulická and it is also a matter of points. So the motion for a resolution on the health situation: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Health and the Government of the Czech Republic to continue system measures available and quality health care in Czech health care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u77	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 137, 154 Members signed in for 129, versus 2. The motion for a resolution has been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u78	The next item is: By the end of November 2019, she answered the questions relating to health care provided in the introduction to this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u79	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 138, 154 Members registered, for 148, against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u80	The next item is three: it has taken measures to stabilise revenue into public health insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u81	I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 139, 154 Members registered, for 87, against 3. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u82	Fourth: It supported the adoption of the law on regular and automatic valorisation of payments for state insured persons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u83	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 140, 154 Members registered, for 66, against 3. The motion for a resolution has not been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u84	Fifth: It has ensured a transparent transfer of increased negotiated funds through the payment decree and health insurance plans for 2020, particularly to those areas of health care where the situation is the worst - small hospitals, stabilization of health personnel and home care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u85	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 141, 154 Members registered, for 77, versus 13. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. Well, then we have a KSČM. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u86	We have another one from Mrs Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u87	I beg you to remain calm in the courtroom!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u88	So -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u89	Hold on a second. Just a chvilička. Chairman of the KSČM MP's club... [[Checking the votes.]] Mr Valenta, you wish to comment. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u90	So I'm very sorry, but I wanted to vote in favour, and I'm high on being held up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u91	Please specify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u92	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's the other way around.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u93	Sorry, there was a noise and I didn't hear a thing. So...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u94	Now I'm gonna say it right. I'm on drugs because I'm late, and I wanted to vote in favour. That is why I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u95	So you're questioning the vote. So we will vote on Mr Valenta's objection. I'm opening the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against the objection? Voting number 142, 154 Members signed in for 134, versus 2. Objection received. There's an application for check-out, so I'm gonna sign you out, sign up again with your voting cards, and we're gonna repeat the vote. So, rapporteur, please show us around.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u96	So we're going to vote again -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u97	Excuse me, one moment. President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u98	I'm being helpful myself. Everyone will be failing the voting device, but I would ask the Member to say the formula correctly next time. We don't give a damn how you wanted to vote, that's no reason to question the vote. The correct wording is that you voted in favour, you got high, you got held up, not what you wanted, we really don't care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u99	Okay, let's go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u100	We will be voting again on item number five of Mrs Aulická's proposal, and that was: it has ensured a transparent transfer of increased negotiated funds through the payment decree and health insurance plans for 2020 in particular to those areas of health care where the situation is the worst - small hospitals, stabilization of health personnel and home care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u101	I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 143, 153 Members signed in for 78, against 14. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u102	We have dealt with this motion for a resolution by Mrs Aulická and now we will move on to the motion for a resolution by Mrs Maříková, who proposes that The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Health to inform the Chamber of Deputies what steps and systemic solutions he is preparing to resolve the personnel crisis in the health sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u103	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 144, 154 Members voted in favour of 80, against 3. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. Just a moment, I'm gonna read one apology, 'cause then we're gonna end up living here to read it. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So between 7:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. Mr. František Vácha apologizes for reasons of work. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u104	Another point is that the Chamber of Deputies asks the Ministry of Health to develop a long-term health concept, as will ensure quality and available health care in the coming years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u105	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 145, 154 Members voted in favour of 72, against 2. The motion for a resolution has not been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u106	We have dealt with this motion for a resolution by Mrs Maříková and now the motion for a resolution by Mr Třešňák, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a legislative proposal for the electronisation of health by April 2020 in paragrafo'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u107	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 146, 153 Members registered, for 63, against none. The motion for a resolution has not been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u108	The last motion for a resolution is from Mr Kaňkovský, who proposes: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is asking the government, first by 31. 3. 2020 submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a substantive proposal for a new law on public health insurance.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u109	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 147, 154 Members voted in favour of 53, against 1. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u110	Another point, two: "By 31st time. 1. 2020 has submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal for measures to strengthen the role of trainers in health professions, including their corresponding financial evaluation."
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u111	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 148, 154 Members signed up, for 72, against none. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u112	And three: "Till 31. 12. 2019 has submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a timetable for the application of the DRG Restart programme.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u113	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 149, 154 Members signed in, for 74, against none. [[on board 1]] The motion for a resolution has not been approved. Mr rapporteur, have we exhausted all the proposals?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u114	Yes, all of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-22-ps2017-035-05-002-312.u115	So we're running out of proposals, and I'm ending this item, and I'm interrupting the meeting tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. Have a good evening.
