ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u1	229. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations At the meeting of the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, eleven responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be placed on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to each written interpelation. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš replied to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation on the electronic file. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 268. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. And as each of us can see, this obstacle lasts and cannot be continued in the discussion of this interpelation. Okay, come in. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr. Jiří Valenta's interpellation... Please. [[Messenger. Michalek wants to get out.]] We talked about this last time, I know, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u2	Thanks for the word on the microphone. I just wanted to remind you that the interpellation was filed on 10. 7. 2018 and inclusion at the meeting I requested 5. 9. 2018. Consequently, it was discussed at meeting 13. 9. 2018 when it was interrupted due to the absence of the Prime Minister, 20. 9. 2018 when it was interrupted due to the absence of the Prime Minister, 25. 10. 2018, when it was interrupted due to the absence of the Prime Minister, 1. 11. 2018, when it was interrupted due to the absence of the Prime Minister, 6. 12. 2018, when it was interrupted due to the absence of the Prime Minister, and 20. 12. 2018 when it was interrupted due to the absence of the Prime Minister. Today he is interrupted again due to the absence of the Prime Minister. So the Prime Minister didn't come up with seven interviews in a row. I think it would be really good if the government could organise its programme so as to fulfil at least the elementary responsibilities that result from the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, we will have to - I don't know how we can continue if the Prime Minister doesn't come to interpelation in a row. If we are to propose a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies so that the Prime Minister is obliged to attend the next written intercessions, or what else is required of us. But really, if this happens again next time, it will be the eighth meeting in a row where the Prime Minister will not be present, there will be nothing left but a separate point. I think we should return to respect for those basic democratic institutions. And controlling the government of the opposition is one of those basic institutions that should work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u3	Thank you. I'll read an apology. For work reasons, Minister Miroslav Toman apologizes within 13 hours. He also apologizes for today's meeting within 10 hours, Mr Ondřej Benešík. There. Another intervention that we should discuss today is that of the Prime Minister again. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jiří Valenta's interpellation with regard to the war reparations of Germany. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 324. This interpelation has also been interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, and I cannot open the debate. The third interpelation is again to the Prime Minister, who responded to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation with regard to the opaque management of ČEZ and, in particular, its investments in Bulgaria. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 342. This discussion has also been suspended until the presence of the Prime Minister, who is now excused on account of a foreign trip. I hope it will be possible to discuss these interpelations in the course of next week. Another apology. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes between 9 and 11 o'clock from today's meeting. Another intervention is an interpellation to the Minister of Transport. Minister for Transport Dan Ťok responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on the most dangerous place on the roads. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 344. The discussion of this reply was suspended by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies at the 24th meeting until the next proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so this condition is met. The Minister is present and I am opening the debate on the matter and giving the floor to the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I have consulted you in writing on the problem of accidents on our communications. We know that some sections are very dangerous. This applies, of course, to sections of roads and motorways and some intersections. This issue can be dealt with either by modernization or by reconstruction. I noticed an increase in the number of people who died on the roads as a result of road accidents. I asked you to send me an overview of the sections of roads that are managed by ŘSD and which are evaluated as the most risky and have the highest accident rate. That's what you did. You answered me in writing, I'd say quite extensive. You have also provided me with a number of interesting information in the sense that an inter-ministerial committee on road safety has been set up. However, the presentation, which was about 40 pages, did not contain a list of those sections and there was also no procedure for how these sites would be dealt with. Maybe I'll just ask. As regards the accident rate on our motorways, this issue arose in relation to the D1 and the fact that Members submitted a bill to ban overtaking trucks in the left lane, and this concerns security. So I ask whether the Interministerial Commission is also dealing with this problem, first of all, because it has to do with accidents and with those sections. Secondly, in connection with the very dangerous sections, you said about a year ago that you would look at the most dangerous sections on the highways, build a crisis plan and deal with it. So if you could also answer briefly in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u5	Thank you. The Minister will respond. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only the reply to Mrs Kovářová through Mr President. The Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic do not have a list of the most dangerous places on the roads, as for these purposes security inspections would have to be carried out on all motorways and roads of the I. class. We have a security inspection carried out on all TEN-T communications, because this is a condition for funding, so of course we are able to identify those sections, but we are not able to identify all of these sections. I would like to inform you that this year, or last year, we started negotiations with the Czech Technical University, with the Czech Technical University, regarding that we would like to continue and carry out security audits of all the 1st class roads that it manages The Road and Motorway Directorate, and a list of those sites that should be repaired and that should be adjusted, we can then hand over to you. We want to do this audit because we take it that the state of the road or highway and communication is one of the three basic reasons for safety. I would just like to add that all sections where we and the police evaluate that there are some safety risks or there are many accidents, or we can prove that many accidents have been caused there, we analyze and gradually correct them and adjust them. However, I would like to say here that we are always sensitive to this situation, and if anyone from the government comes to us with a suggestion that their section of the road is at risk and problematic, we are dealing with it. I would like to say that the last case is the communication I/35, which leads from Hradec towards Liberec. Here on this communication right now, or on Jičín, there we are in a debate with the mayors of the village of Konschlumí and the surrounding, where really due to the fact that there are many trucks and turning on this road, where especially in the municipalities there are unfortunately higher speeds than allowed, is problematic. After the security audit is done on all 1s, we will have a list available that we can provide. If you come in, or someone from the government, with a proposal where you see a problem, the Ministry, ŘSD and BESIP will definitely deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u7	Thank you. I ask if anyone is taking part in the debate on this point. Mrs. Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u8	Thank you so much for your answer, Minister. I think there were two important information in your reply that will be carried out by a security audit on all the first-class roads. I'd just like to know if you could tell me what time horizon you're going to do this, if you have any idea, because such an audit is, of course, a long-term matter. The second important thing for me, which was said in your reply, is that if the authorities find that the sections are very dangerous, then the ŘSD will address this ad hoc. Thank you for that. I'm just asking for the time horizon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u9	About the time horizon. We just started the meeting. The question is whether we will probably have to issue a public tender for such a service and make an analysis of which of the entities are able to do so. The moment this analysis is done, I'll give you the information. Now I don't want to cook it out of the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u10	Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u11	Thank you, Minister. I hope that the issue of road and highway safety will be addressed, because statistics actually show that the number of victims is rising, not only on roads and motorways, but also on local roads in municipalities. Thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u12	If this is all on this point, there has been a mutual dialogue, which I congratulate both participants, then I am ending the discussion of this interpelation. Another interpelation in order is the interpelation of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok again, who responded to the interpelation of Mr Ivan Adamec on the tender for the operation of the toll system after 2020 in the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 351. I am opening the debate and giving the floor to the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, dear Government, fellow Members, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the reply he gave me. I'm gonna go back a little bit. When the tender issue was opened here in the House in the past period, unfortunately, the meeting that was reserved for it did not approve the programme, so only our colleagues who had priority rights could speak here, and it did not reach us. I think the issue of tolling is so serious that when we were talking about D1 the day before yesterday, when I compare these two issues, tolls are significantly more important than whether or not there were eight hours on the freeway. [[9.20 hours]] And maybe because some of you have certainly received some comments from unsuccessful applicants and maybe it has aroused some distrust in you, so I took the liberty of opening this problem here in plenary. Since I certainly do not think that we should defend unsuccessful candidates, on the contrary, we should defend the state and choose the most appropriate offer. But I found some "but" that I'd like to hear the "but" explanation on the microphone here, so that's why I opened the interpelation here, too, because I actually served it sometimes two or three months ago, and that time has shifted. However, I still think there are some problems. When I get back to the tender, there was a competition that, in addition to motorways, there would be a toll system of about 900 km of I. class roads. And these conditions were actually the terms of entry into the competition, and that's just how it went. However, after that, the Ministry of Transport changed its mind a bit. In fact, it said that the 900 km of I. class roads will, I would say, be chosen so that the regions will express which roads want to charge and which roads do not want to. And here I see a little bit of a problem in that actually there may be a lot of chaos in that some regions are going to decide that they're going to have to charge all the sections of I. classes, some regions are going to say that they're not going to want to charge them, you could say, almost zero kilometers. So here I see there's gonna be chaos, and in the end, I think this is gonna be one of the reasons for the appeal. And maybe I'd like to ask here if the appeal is over, because, of course, Kapsch specifically took advantage of the possibility to appeal to the Competition Authority. And I have a feeling there's another possibility, decompose to this matter. And I don't know what it's in right now. I think the terms have changed a little bit. On the other hand, it must, of course, be perceived that the selection of the toll system operator is very important for our state, because when the EU subsidy is over, it is actually one of the biggest revenues in addition to the revenues from motorway signs, which will then be used for the construction of motorways, reconstruction of motorways and roads of the I. class. Maybe I'd like to ask you what the condition is. And I think this point is really nice to talk about, what do you mean, because I think the terms have really changed. And what happens if, and that's a hypothetical question, if that Kapsch is simply going to rely on that decomposition, and if the office finds out, I'd say, a condition different from a prime-instance solution. So, what's it gonna look like? And the second thing I'm interested in is the question of electronic road signs that we've been talking about for years. I would like to ask if it was expected that de facto those toll gates would serve to check whether the driver has a paid electronic road sign, that is, whether he paid on the Internet or on his cell phone. And it doesn't matter if he paid the annual, monthly, weekly, or 14-day, as we set it up. But I think it would be a much better move to digitize road transport in that it would happen automatically and it wouldn't have to be the traffic police here. So I want to ask if that's what you're counting on. If you don't, the way you keep fighting. I think that maybe here, if it wasn't planned, it's a question of wondering if we could just step up our efforts to digitize our transport so that we could just get good results at minimum costs. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I give the floor to a minister who will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to start by saying that I am not opposed to any debate. In my opinion, what took place from the point of view of the toll tender is simply an open, transparent competition in which the one who gave the lowest price succeeded. The fact that it wasn't Kapsch was caused only by the fact that they put the price around a billion and a half higher than the selected participant. So that's it. As for the conditions, the terms of the tender have not changed from beginning to end, they are exactly the same from beginning to end. The charging range of the ones was there from the beginning and remained the same. And it is the duty of the supplier to deliver the work as it was competed, with all the charging. The only debate that has been held here and is not yet completed and depends on the government how it will be completed is the debate raised by the regions and some municipalities that have come up with the fear that if there is a charge for a number one, one of the trucks could use the two-way routes, three-way routes, destroy them, and that they are against the charge. The Ministry has taken this issue by saying that we are ready to discuss the matter with the regions, with the fact that this does not mean that there would be a change in the scope of the levy. However, the government may temporarily set a different myth rate on some sections of the decree for those sections where it wants the whole thing not to go around. But so far, the government has not decided on such a move, so nothing major is happening in this situation. I just want to say one thing about the whole "A" charge-free debate. You know, if you look into 2006, how the original contract was competed or competed, he was actually chosen by a single contractor because the competition was canceled. Or it wasn't canceled, everyone else was voted out except one. So the commitment of Kapsch as the winner in the contract was to charge 1,850 km of I. class roads. And he made a commitment to it. He made a commitment that there would be toll gates, that there would be a microwave system. And in 2007, in one of the first additions, when he found out he wasn't able to do it, he agreed with the then Ministry that the contract would change, and in Appendix 1, the 1,850 km became about 180 km. So there's no new thing about charging the ones, we've already had contracts in 2006, 2005. So I wouldn't see it as a tragic thing. You're right, there were basically all appeals and breakdowns from the course of the selection procedure. The final breakdown to be decided by the UOHS is the breakdown against the decision at the first stage, on which day, I think it was 10 December 2018, the Office at the first stage decided that the proposal of Kapsch Telematic Services to impose a ban on the performance of the supply contract and the provision of comprehensive services in the operation of the electronic system rejected it, on 18 December gave Kapsch a breakdown against it, and now we are waiting for a decision to decompose it. I admit that I don't have the information now when it should be, but I feel that there is no time limit on this issue of the UOHS, so it will definitely come. I'm gonna go back to the electronic road signs. They're being prepared by the Ministry. We're preparing them. However, publishing a competition that should be much easier, because it is not such a complex system as charging tolls for trucks, so this must be preceded by a change in the law that will allow this possibility. The change is ready for the government today. I think it's in Law 13, and it should come to the Chamber of Deputies to make it possible. In parallel, we are preparing all the steps to do this so that the system can be in test operation in 2020 and can reach the system in 2021 for everyone, or essentially in December 2020 as new motorway signs are to be valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u16	Thank you. Mr. MP. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u17	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I did not say that the Minister resists discussion. I wouldn't dare. I think he's really not defending the discussion. Here the Chamber of Deputies defended itself by their decision not to approve the programme. That's why I put it here. But from my own experience, I know that the UOHS really doesn't have time limits, it's a very unpleasant matter. It's a question of wondering if the ÚOHS should decide at some reasonable time. Because we, as mayors or captains, know this problem very well. It's very unpleasant. This may be particularly relevant to the issue of European subsidies. So I think it's about thinking about what to do in the future. But I wanted to ask you about the electronic road signs to see if they'd be used to control the toll gates. I wonder if that's what you're thinking or not. Or how we're gonna control the payment of the highway charge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u18	Thank you. The Minister will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u19	Thank you for the follow-up question. I'll get back to the UOHS. I wouldn't want this place to sound like a critique of the úohs. He basically hasn't been that long since December, and I'm assuming he's gonna make a decision anytime soon. Anyway, about the road signs. Anyway, we're in two stages today. In the first stage, basically, those systems today, which are manual, check those stamps, should be done electronically. That means we'll equip customs and police with apps. If he takes a picture of the mark, they'll know if it's a stamp holder or not, or if he's paid for the fee. In the second phase, we expect that there should be static sensors. And what I'd like to say is that even those toll gates that we're not gonna use the new system on, so we've got some more apps lined up for them. I'm sure we want to put in telematics, variable tags, we want to put in high-speed weighing and other steps. And in connection with that, there could be those surveillance cameras for the highway signs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u20	Thank you. I ask whether the Member will be interested in giving an opinion. [[Member Adamec: No.]] We have one more logged in for the discussion. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u21	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I am pleased that the situation of tolls has reached the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in this form. I have carefully followed the discussion and I have two questions for the Minister. That's the first one. On what basis - a simple question - the government decided to charge 900 kilometers of first-class roads additionally. I was looking for it, and I just couldn't find the answer to that question. There was never any need in advance, then there was an expert committee of coalition council, we know its members, and there just came out of it some number without any analysis, without any need, without any actually previous action. So here I'd like to ask you how and on what basis, what kind of material has reached the 900 kilometers. Then, today, there was information about the charge of A's. About the one-off charge. In the last eight years, the concept of the Ministry of Transport with regard to the charging of ones has turned around about three or four times. It was supposed to be charged first, which is why the additions to Kapsch were closed for delivery of the satellite superstructure. Then it got canceled again, half a billion dollars' worth of investment went away. And now it's starting again. So I wonder if the Ministry will maintain some unified vision, some unified strategy in the case of toll collection. Or wouldn't it be better if the House of Deputies set it up by law? In addition to the use of investments in the development of the hybrid model. That's a very interesting thing. I'll try to quote the SAO's report. It's message number 17/10. This report points out the failure of the investment in the satellite superstructure to the current system, since further implementation, supplemented by the aforementioned amendments of 27. 12. 2007 to the contracts with the current operator, i.e. Kapsch, was the supply and implementation of the satellite interface, which was to be extended by the electronic toll system to the first, second and third class road charging module. In other words, this module should have been able to charge the entire territory of the Czech Republic. The total price was set at CZK 773 million without VAT. Of which the price of supply 441 million and for trial operation 323 million crowns. Although the extension of the system took place up to the pilot mode, when 3,000 Czech mail cars with hybrid on-board unit were already driving around the Czech Republic, the satellite interface was never used. The reason for this was the alleged change in the concept of the Ministry of Transport between 2010 and 2011 concerning the charging of first and lower class roads. According to the ŘSD communication, the satellite interface, which was ordered for half a billion crowns, stopped meeting the requirements of the relevant standards that had changed during the test operation. It further stated that in 2015 it transferred part of satellite interface technology at the cost of CZK 252 million without VAT to the interface for telematic applications. And the remaining assets at the cost of CZK 189 million without VAT were liquidated. According to the SAO report, the same report, the Road and Motorway Directorate spent CZK 521 million without VAT on the inefficient acquisition of the satellite interface and related services. The additional charge of 900 kilometers of first-class roads is allegedly uneconomical in the microwave toll regime, we know this from the Kapsch offer, i.e. the existing system. Today, charged 1,440 kilometers plus the planned 900 kilometers totals 2,340 kilometers, which happens to be referred to as a border above which it will be more advantageous to run satellite tolls than microwaves. So my question is: why has the Ministry of Transport not used this already developed module for hybrid tolls, which has cancelled just before deployment, rather than competing with a completely new system, which will form a de facto functional subset of the hybrid system, more than ten times more expensive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u22	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone is interested in speaking in the debate? Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just very briefly like to respond to what has been said here. First of all, there are things I can't explain to you because I wasn't there. I'm just gonna fill in what you said here, 'cause you ripped things out a little bit of purpose, which are otherwise folded. One. In the original contract, and I'm going to repeat it, in 2006, Kapsch was going to charge 1,850 kilometers of ones. And that came out of it. A deal was made that said Kapsch didn't have to build it. There was some compensation, I don't want to tell them all here. However, the obligation was there, and at the request of Kapsch, it fell out of the contract. That there was some further development in 2007, as you said, or in the following years, that there would be some hybrid system and that something would be tried, it was decided by other ministers, other concepts came and things just didn't happen and some other minister stopped it. So asking me now to answer why it was that way, or it wasn't, I really can't say it responsibly. About defining the 900 kilometers. You're wrong again. There is a Deloitte study on the possibility of enlargement that we came from and where it came out that the 900 kilometers were a kind of compromise on which the coalition then agreed. [[9.40 hours]] The number of toll miles is not only a conceptual question, but from my point of view, and as I have been warned here in the Chamber of Deputies, it can also be the concept that the minister brings into this and tell him by law that he must not and must do it in this way, I think it is not right. Myth is primarily a fiscal instrument, a regulatory tool in seconds. It is a question of really political orientation of which minister, which way he chooses and which government will approve. Here the government has approved the assignment, approved the issues as they are, has the basis for this and has the ultimate right to decide on this matter. So today, to say that it could have been different, anyone can say that, of course. But it is hard to doubt that the Minister of Government of the Czech Republic does not have to comply with the government's resolution. [[Does he have ……]] So I filled it. I don't think it's bad. I don't know where you got what's repeated in public space, that charging 900 km is disadvantageous. It is advantageous, it has its yield and it has its economic justification. I'm simply rejecting the kind of fabulous thing you've read here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u24	Thank you. President Stanjura is in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u25	Now that we've moved on to a general myth debate since that particular interpellation, let me make a few comments. The minister here said that his concept and concept of government put the fiscal importance of myth first, like secondary regulatory or regulatory. I have a slightly different opinion. I think the myth could be more used potentially to regulate traffic. But in order to have the relevant numbers, you actually have to figure out how many vehicles they drive on first-class roads, for example. I think it would be much more systematic if the density and frequency of traffic on all first-class roads were examined. And I'm not saying they all have to be paid for. I think of it ideally as an open system where I have information, I flexibly change rates, and it also makes me able to regulate transport. Because we can call on someone a hundred times not to drive this way or any other way, but until there is an economic tool that undoubtedly the owners of the transport companies are interested in, until then, we will be able to get around those toll sections. When we talk about first-class roads, I think we also need to distinguish whether it's two or four lanes. Some roads are classified as first class, but drivers actually create the impression of a highway, we no longer have a expressway. So it's always very important that we know which specific communication we're talking about. Where there are four lanes, I'm sure the myth has to be chosen. Basically, there might be a parameter to declare it a freeway, whether a height or a turn, etc. But what I would warn of, and I consider this unfortunate in the process of government, for the regions to set us a national policy. I think this is a matter of high importance for the Government of the Czech Republic. Yes, the regions can, at the moment they decide, comment and debate in some way, that is completely legitimate. But the idea that individual regions will decide whether to charge it or not - I think the outcome of the debate is quite clear. Every commander, regardless of political affiliation, will say: I do not want anything there, dear citizens, I have protected your money, I have advocated that in our region the roads of the first class will not be charged. While we are getting information on the census of traffic density and so on, the system that might start to work could bring us more relevant, de facto online information and could mean a more flexible response from the state, even if the rates changed flexibly on first-class roads in particular. I don't think we're going to interfere with the dispute between the candidates, as a principle, but we're not going to interfere with the constructive opposition. We can, as we like to raise our eyebrows in the ODS for a long time, especially when the Office for Competition is changing its position by 180 degrees, but that is certainly not the case with the Chamber of Deputies. [[unintelligible]] And for me, we wouldn't support putting things that belong to executives into the law. I think we have to hold on to this power division, yes, and you know that we very often criticize the government, bring other concepts that we think are better. But we do not think, for example, that the scope of first-class road charging should be dealt with by law. Yes, if anyone feels that this is wrong, it is perfectly legitimate to criticize it, give better ideas, show system errors, or at the moment when someone takes power, it can also modify it in some way, especially when the system is open and allows software options to change parameters. Otherwise, all those candidates, which we will say quite openly, legitimately defend their economic interests. I don't blame anyone. If legislation has the possibility of appeal, the administration of decomposition allows it to be exploited. I'd just like to get back to what the Minister and my colleague Ivan Adamec said. We should think about what we could really do by law, the time limits for decision-making by the Office for the Protection of Competition. I think it must be reasonable that, in particular, the breakdowns cannot be 30 days, I think we all understand that, but from the experience of many of us, either from government or regional or municipal level, we know that sometimes the decision at first step is very long. And I think that, in particular, we could agree and discuss change. We're not saying how to decide, but to make it quick. So that the contracting entities know whether or not they are able to start the investment in real time to eventually allocate the source somewhere else or not. I agree with what Ivan Adamec said. It is a pity that the majority of those days did not allow a debate in plenary. I think today's course of interpellation shows that the debate is a matter of fact. There may be other opinions about the solution, but that's normal. And it is not strictly political or extremely political. That's what we have taxes, cardinal hours, social systems, health systems. We will find plenty of areas in which a very often sharper political debate is being held, and I don't mind at all. But because of how long it takes to prepare the construction, to implement the construction, there must be some. [[unintelligible]] But basically, she exists. If you look at the current motorway network and planned, there's no political dispute over those routes. Yes, there are local disputes about whether or not the bypass is a mile away from the city, but basically the debate is over. It's what our predecessors did, and let's not think about what our highway network is supposed to look like. Let us argue about what tools to speed up the preparation and then the subsequent implementation. I think we can all only wish that any disputes, whether in the competition authority or in court, would end on time. In order for the state to have a chance to operate the system after 1 January 2020, because really, and now I'm not going to talk about the cost side, the 10 to 11 billion would be a noticeable budget blackout. [[unintelligible]] Moreover, this could also lead to an increase in truck traffic intensity if we were unable to collect those rates.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u26	Thank you. I've registered Mr. Polanský reporting. Is that a deal? [[Agreed.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u27	Thank you for the floor. I thank the Minister for his answers. About the fabulation to 900 km and Deloitte's study. I couldn't really follow it in detail at the time, but it doesn't fit my causality. She met the expert committee first, I'm not sure about the date. Then came the famous Government resolution 1000/2016, it was 17 November 2016. And only in December came Deloitte's study, which, by the way, says that the overall impacts on the myth's specific income will be minus 18.3%. So much for the advantage. And it's the only paper, the only study that somehow quantifys the impact of the enlargement. So the question remains, on what basis did the expert committee decide to extend the myth system by 900 km, when the Deloitte report came only a few months later. That would clarify the question. [[9.50 hours]] And as for the satellite toll, you have, Minister, a toll solution in your pocket covering the whole Czech Republic. It was already in pilot operation, it was driven by thousands of Czech Post cars and it was just before deployment into sharp operation. I'm sure you still have the system at your disposal. Right, it's all... [[The Minister's reaction off the microphone.]] Yeah, the hardware's been scrapped. However, developing the same thing as before must be far better - and the contract was 700 million, now it will be much less, because the road has already been climbed - is still better than 10 billion for the new system. And it would be a contemporary superstructure, so nothing actually needs to be turned off or switched on. Natural transition. As an IT guy, I always know what a problem it is to trade one system for another. So the questions remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u28	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u29	I'll wait a minute if the MP listens to me so I don't have to do it again. [[Mr Polanský is speaking with Mr Stanjura.]] I'll take it down a notch. First of all, we need to realize a few moments. The first moment is-- I'll take it from the back to the system. The system was never in sharp operation. And it's never been checked or verified. Secondly, I'm a little surprised that you're here to hunt for giving us a direct assignment to expand the system when there was a request for an open tender to give all technologies and all companies a chance. So let's say what you're saying to me today is some kind of extension over the microwave toll system that was created in 2002, let's say because it was developed and then developed further. And we're talking about the purchase costs that you're comparing to a service that's ten years old and that includes all the costs for the on-board units and all the stuff. So here we measure a little pears with apples that can't be measured. I just want to say one thing. We have to compare here ten years or thirteen years, when we had the original microwave contract, when this state paid 24 billion, with the fact that it has a contracted service for which it will pay 10.7 billion in the next ten years. So, in terms of convenience, I'm sure it's clear. As far as technological progress is concerned, the Kapsch system we're running today is something that was Nokia 3110, and today the system is something like the smartphone we're using, and it's different technology. As far as history and miles are concerned, I am not hiding, there was a political agreement that ended with a government resolution. When you find him, the government's resolution is that the government's task is to put a contest on the number of kilometres to be determined by the toll manager, and it will be within 850 to 3,000 km. And this, to this extent, from Deloitte's study, was exactly 900 km. So we did exactly what the government gave us. And I insist that, of course, there was... the definitive one is just the expertise of Deloitte, which kilometers it is supposed to be. It's your number minus 17 percent - I don't know, we have to explain that. Of course, it is said that 80 per cent of what is collected or over 80 per cent of what is selected today on those 1s, which is understandable, but it's still income, it's still positive. Maybe it's 17 percent lower than the current selected ones, but it's still a positive number, so there's no loss. And I just want to make a quick comment on Vice-President Stanjur. The new system will also allow monitoring in the future. This will allow the system to be extended to all A's, they can be monitored, and they can figure out where the flows are, and they can be regulated. I think that any future political representation that will be in charge of executives, that is, the government and the Ministry of Transport, can then proceed to these things as well. The system is designed like this and makes it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u30	Thank you. Mr Adamec is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, colleagues, I am glad that this debate is taking place in this form. I would like to confirm the words of President Stanjura. We certainly do not intend to intervene here as Members of the Executive Committee. It's not our place. But I would really point out that the UOHS issued an opinion that it denied at the same time. And that always raises suspicion, of course. And I am very sorry that the debate here at the House plenary did not take place in full, as we can afford. But I wanted to say one thing, and I'd hate for it to fit in. This does not apply, of course, to the Minister and the Ministry of Transport, but this concerns the mentioned ÚOHS. From my own practice, I would like to share my personal experience. We were building a half-billion-dollar investment, 40% of which was European money, and before the construction was completed, an official from the Ministry of Finance came and sent the UOHS to us. And you know what the worst part was? That the UOHS in the first-instance trial decided after 16 months! And we owed construction companies hundreds of millions of crowns that we couldn't pay off. And for us, it was annihilation. That's why I've been talking about it here, that a contract as serious as a toll tender - I understand that the original contract wasn't the best, that it wasn't quite easy, but when things like this happen, of course, it raises doubts. And it's better to disprove those doubts right from the start than to let it bubble under the surface and not solve it and stick your head in the sand like the last House did. That's why I'm glad this discussion is going on. And other than that, I don't really have anything to say about it anymore. I believe it will work much better. I would also like to draw attention to what I said in my opening speech that really mayors or mayors or mayors should not interfere at all with how the state decides to charge its communication. This will really lead to chaos and we will never agree on it and it will always be not 900 km, but always 50, 100 kilometers and no more. So that's what I wanted to point out. And I would like the Ministry of Transport and the Minister to treat it this way, that it is simply his supreme right, government law and the law of the Minister and the law of the Ministry. Then use it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u32	Thank you. Mr Polanský is reporting once more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u33	Well, I'll be good, though we could probably argue for a long time. I'll just try to summarize constructively what we pirates would do. First of all, I have already started this, but problem number one is the overall vision of myth selection in the Czech Republic and the relevant pricing policy. In my opinion, current problems stem from the absence of a long-term concept of myth selection. The current fact that in 2007 the Czech Republic introduced a system that is costly to expand by additional paid sections - the need initially existed until 2011, then not until 2016, and now, again, it implies the incompetence of the Ministry of Transport in the areas of long-term planning. The reason may be the absence of the toll bill - although I am not a fan of the new laws, but I would consider it here - which would actually anchor the concept and vision in some way and the Ministry could not constantly change it, because the result is then such a failed replacement of one system after another, failed at least in the process plane of selection now, not in the technological one. To Nokia 3110 and to the smartphone. I would also include the fact that the satellite toll already existed in the Czech Republic, so it could be said that we are trading Nokia 3110 for 10 times the more overpriced display from Nokia 3110, because the satellite toll we are competing with is actually a functional subset of the system that already worked here in the pilot mode. Currently, the myth is treated by several paragraphs in the Act on the Conditions of Traffic on the Roads, which I think may be insufficient. [[10.00 hours]] And another fact to think about parties increasing the income of the state from the myth. It could be implemented by increasing tariffs per kilometre, which are still among the lowest in the European Union. It's a shame we're a transit country. Their increase e.g. 4 percent would raise revenue by 1 billion. CZK without the need for additional investments or changes. Now I will not forgive such a futurological window or long-term solution of the myth system according to the Pirát. From my point of view, I would continue to operate the current system for another, say, five to ten years, with pressure constantly on the reduction of the operating price. Right now, I'm guessing 1.54 billion. of the selected 10 billion. In doing so, the Ministry would draw up a substantive plan for the toll bill, which will, above all, regulate the principles and long-term concept of charging the road network in the Czech Republic, the principles of calculating the kilometric rate so as to reasonably reflect the situation in the European Union, the wear-out of infrastructure, technological development and other factors. Secondly, the Ministry would process a technological study of the feasibility of a system of cost-free tolling system based on technological development. This idea is based on the fact that within five or ten years each car will basically be an information node. C-ITS cooperative systems, eCall units, V2V communications, Vehicle-2-Infrastructure and other mobile applications will make the car one large information node, which will constantly communicate not only with the infrastructure but also with other cars next to each other. The technology's about to drop. The vision is that the toll system in the Czech Republic should be implemented only by an application to this system, a completely cost-free version, where it will not be necessary to maintain an expensive system of distribution of on-board units and others. In theory, practically speaking, the toll system could already be implemented by a mobile phone today. The technology allows everything we require from toll collection, and in an ideal world, from my point of view, the toll system would be just one application that the driver downloads and runs. Within ten years, I assume that both microwave and satellite systems will be conceptually morally outdated, so I do not see why we should change one after another before the end of the lifetime of both systems, which I would rather put into the 20th century. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u34	Good morning. The Minister of Transport Dan Ťok wishes to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u35	Mr Vice-President, I do not wish to prolong the debate, but I have two or three brief remarks. About futurology. You know, what you've described here is that the state could operate the system for five more years and reduce its costs is a little bit of a problem. In order to do this, you would have to void the Public Procurement Act. There's no way you can legally do that. I assumed and assumed that the Chamber of Deputies still insists that we act according to the law, and this could not be done. If you have such an idea, he described Kapsch very carefully and some of the sentences you read here, as if they fell out of this company's speech, but let's face it, the crucial thing Kapsch said there was that he very chastely withheld, how we would have made a service contract with him for the next five years. That's the first thing. The second thing when you said that this system we have is a subset of the one we already have here, it's not true. And if that were true, I just want to remind you of one condition from the competition, and the condition from the competition was that everything that the state owns or owns can be used free of charge by the bidder. In other words, if Kapsch is here today saying that there was a $700 million system that worked and was functional, he could use it and in this way very radically reduce his offer, which he obviously didn't because he failed in the competition. Let's say things the way they are, really truthfully. It's a really new system, and it's nothing old. The visions. I'm more or less applying to these visions, and I think it can work that way and that the apps look nice. We have to say that b), and b) is that the average age of the fleet in the Czech Republic has been increasing, I think, for almost 17 years. The idea that all cars will be sending all the information to the information center is a hell of a long way from that, and it's gonna be pretty complicated before we get there. I agree with you that we can order the trucks to have these things faster, but if we wanted to apply it to all the cars and cars as you mentioned in that vision, I think this is a considerable thing, because changing cars to those that will communicate is a question in our case maybe one and a half generations, it's quite a long thing. But only then would the House say that it commands everyone to change cars quickly, but I think it would be politically very unpopular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u36	Thank you. Otherwise, I got a request that it's cold in the room to make it warmer. I'm just saying, I've already arranged it, they say it's gonna get hotter. The request was from more than one Member. I just wanted to tell you, but frankly, what I don't know is when you'll feel the result. I think we're working on it. Mr. Ambassador, you want a refill. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u37	Thank you. I specifically mentioned that it is a question for the future that it would be one and a half generations before we exchange cars here for some kind of communicating, I don't know. Ten years ago, I'm sure you remember, there were no smartphones. Everybody's got it today. Development at a time when the possibility of an information unit on board will bring some great advantage to users, like faster crossroads or something like that, it will spread very quickly. Maybe one thing about those sentences, like you said, they look like they're from Kapsch. I would ask you to say which one, because if I quote from somewhere, it was mainly the SAO's reports. Most of them were quoted. The last thing is to advise the system on how I would continue without violating the law on public procurement. I wouldn't simply write a contract for the supply of a new toll system, but back in 2016, a contract could have been made for a new operator of that system. Everyone would probably be at the advantage of taking part, but even so, the proceedings could be done openly. We had a rather long talk about it with Mr. Kopřiva at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u38	That was Mr Polanský and, again, the Minister wishes to respond. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u39	I don't want to prolong, just the very last and short sentence. I suggested it, and the government sent me away for a toll contest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u40	Thank you. I wonder if there's any other interest in the performance. There's no further interest in the show. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the debate and I am asking Mr Ivan Adamec whether he is proposing a resolution. You are not proposing a resolution. I'm done with this point. So we will get to the next interpelation and it concerns the Prime Minister. Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interview on planned investments for 2019 and the 10-year investment plan. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 361. I open the debate and the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u41	Thank you for the floor. The Prime Minister is excused today, so I suggest we stop this interpellation until the Prime Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u42	Okay. We should vote on this proposal. Yeah, checkout request, so I'll check you out. Log in again with your voting cards. I'll call the MPs back to the ballroom. Looks like we're gonna make it. I'm gonna rejoin... I'll get back on track. We'd need 67 of us here, and there's 66 of us. I'd like us to sign up, because if there's 67 of us here, I think that's the number. Someone's logged in and logged in, but hopefully it's okay now. So we will vote on your proposal to interrupt this item, this interpellation, to the presence of the Prime Minister. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 46, 75 Members registered, for 47, versus 1. The result was accepted. So I'm interrupting this interpellation to the Prime Minister's presence. We have another case like this here. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interview on the management of the Office of the President of the Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 363. So I'm opening up a debate. Mrs. Věra Kovářová, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u43	Thank you for the floor. You're right, it's the same case, so I'm going to repeat the proposal that, given that the Prime Minister is duly excused to interrupt this interpellation into the presence of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u44	I'll put the motion to a vote. I just have one apology here. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes at 10 o'clock for work reasons. And then I have one more apology, but that has already been read - between 9:00 and 10:30 apologies for Mrs Lenka Dražilová's work. I shall reconvene the Members to the Chamber, and we shall vote on the interruption of this interpelation to the presence of the Prime Minister. I think we can take a vote. So whoever's in favor of interrupting, press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 47, 77 Members signed in for [[versus 1]] The motion was accepted. So we're also going to interrupt this interpellation into the presence of the Prime Minister. We'll start another one, and that's for the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, who, as I've just reported, is excused. Minister for Health Adam Vojtěch responded to the interview of Mr Vít Kaňkovský on the opaque management of investment and operational resources by the State Institute for Drug Control. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 370. If I had the right information, Mr. Kaňkovský is not here, so I'm putting this interpellation off. We have another interpelation and it is up to the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who responded to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interpellation on the Financial Administration procedure of the Czech Republic in finding information from the newlywed couple about the wedding reception. Interpelation, along with the reply and other response made by the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, on the basis of a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies expressing opposition to the original response to the interpelation, presents 371 as the House's press. So I open the debate and Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u45	Thank you. Given that the Minister has properly apologized, here I am announcing that she has also apologized to me personally, at the same time complaining in the new answer that she could not comment last time, to complete her reply because she was not here and thanks to the MEPs for the ANO movement, the interpelation was not interrupted. I believe now that it will succeed today, and therefore I propose to interrupt the presence of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u46	Thank you. I'm registering your proposal. I will reengage and vote on your proposal. I shall vote without delay. Who's in favor of interrupting? Initiating vote, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 48, 78 Members signed in for 47, versus 1. The motion was accepted. So this interpellation will be interrupted into the presence of Madam Secretary. Another interpellation. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš replied to Mr Marian Jurečka's interpelation on the maintenance of the subsidy programme for the maintenance and restoration of the cultural heritage of the countryside. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 373. So I am opening the debate. Mr. Marian Jurečka isn't here, okay, so we're going to postpone this interpelation. Next we have another interpelation, which is the last one I have in order. This is it - Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Olga Richterová's interpellation with regard to the solution of socially excluded localities and the acute problems of the Janov housing estate. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 376. So I'm opening up a debate. Mrs Olga Richterová is here, so I ask you to comment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u47	Thank you for the floor. I gave the Prime Minister seven-page breakdown on what I was unhappy with in his response. And since I'd like to hear from him personally what's going on, I'd like to propose a recess to the Prime Minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u48	Okay, I'm reflecting on your proposal. So I'd like to vote on your proposal immediately. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of interrupting the Prime Minister's presence? Who's against it? Voting number 49, 79 Members signed in, for 49, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that, for today, we have completed the discussion of the answers to the written interpelations of Members. And since I did not register any other agreement between the presidents of the MPs, I am interrupting negotiations within 11 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 11 o'clock, we will continue with points from the report block, proposals and more. Let me remind you that this afternoon we're going to be focusing on paragraph 230, which is oral questioning. I also ask to make sure that anyone has a proposal to amend the approved agenda of the 26th meeting. I don't see a suggestion like that, so before we go to the first point, I'm going to introduce you to the apologies available here. Mr Farský apologizes for today's meeting from 9.30 to 11.00 because of the working session in Prague, Mr Marek Výborný apologizes from 10.00 to 12.30 for reasons of work, Ms Jana Černochová for the whole day for work reasons, Mr Radek Zlesák for today's meeting from 10 to 11.00 for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Plzák from 11.00 to 12.00 for reasons of work today, Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of employment and from 10.00 to 11.00 for reasons of work Mr Josef Kott. This is Vice-President Pikal speaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u50	Thank you. I will just use my preferential right to say that, given that we have not succeeded once again in fulfilling the written interpelation at that time due to the absence of the members of the government, I will propose to the next Gremium that, at that time, we may form an agreement and use it to approve some points, depending on how we manage to approve or disapprove of these reports today, to include, perhaps, non-controversial international treaties or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u51	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And I'm initiating a first-point discussion... And with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u52	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, but I fundamentally disagree with that view. We're supposed to insist on fulfilling the meaning of written interpelations. It's not like we're gonna accept it this way, that the ministers aren't gonna be here, and we're gonna be discussing something else. Then it would become a rule. Then let's cancel all the written interpelations. And I really do not think that it is an expression of political culture when Members are not willing to vote for interruption of interpelation when the Minister is not present. It seems extremely rude to me. It's completely different when the vote is made whether or not the Minister has to redo the answer. I totally understand that. But what's the point of these written interpelations if the minister isn't, is he excused? As opposition, we accept it, we come, we ask for an interruption to the presence of the minister, and the flagman of the ANO movement will show this way. I just don't think it's done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-24-ps2017-026-03-001-229.u53	Thank you. So now I'm opening the announced point
