ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u1	318. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister or other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej or the Government of the Czech Republic as a whole, and then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to the intersecting Members and the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intervention on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersions on the members of the Government will follow. I am now giving the floor to Mr Marek the Výborný, who was drawn first to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Mr. Dominik Feri will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I cannot fail to respond to your brazen words in the media of 16 October 2019, where you have actually described a law that alleviates some of the consequences of the injustices committed by the criminal communist regime against the churches, religious societies and the Federation of Jewish Communities, as a tunnel of 54 billion and as a strange decision. Do you realize that your statement continues to spread completely false fantasies and impressions? Can you credibly support the overpriced by you by 54 billion when the total amount of compensation is 59 billion? Why didn't the lawyers at the Office of the Government explain the difference between financial compensation and income? The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the law you enforce is in sharp conflict with Article 1 of the Constitution, denies the principle of legal certainty as a fundamental pillar of a democratic state. In fact, it is not about taxation, it is about reducing the financial compensation. Do you know, Prime Minister, that this is a compensation that is paid for property that can either not be issued or has been completely plundered by the Communist regime? For what reason, Prime Minister, while you formally say that you respect the Constitutional Court's finding, do you continue to degenerate churches, religious societies and the Federation of Jewish Communities in the eyes of the public? Do you realize that, among other things, the church's compensation is financed by charitable, educational, and other projects in which they often actually help, or even subjugate the role of the state, helping the most needed without distinction of religion, nationality and the like? Prime Minister, if you believe that a hundred repeated lies will become the truth, I must disappoint you. It's not like that. The Constitutional Court has worked as an insurance policy for constitutionality, and I ask you, Prime Minister, to respect that. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u3	Thank you. The Prime Minister is excused. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he will respond to your intervention within 30 days in writing. With another interview on my business, Mr. Feri will speak. Mr Jelínek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, this is an interpellation on a rather current political matter. And if you answer in writing within 30 days, and I know you always answer to keep the deadline, but you're in no hurry, it's better if I put it down for you when you're here. That means, I believe, next week. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u5	Thank you, too. The President may answer this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And now, please, Mr Jelínek, who will interpel in the matter of cyber security. Mrs Richterová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, we were informed of the report on the state of cyber security of the Czech Republic in 2018. After the committee meeting, I was asked by the media whether cyber security in the Czech Republic was ensured. I referred to your response to my interview of 30 May 2019, when to the question "Dear Prime Minister, will the government honour the commitment to the completion of the SACUIB with the necessary personnel and financial security?" I have been answered, and I quote: "From the original 48 tables he has come to the opinion," the SAOKIB thought, "that in this year it is necessary to obtain at least 32 tables in order to ensure the main activity, with the development of further activities being spread over the coming years. The 32 places that the SAOKIB designates as essential are in which the SAOKIB negotiates with the Ministry of Finance." However, in an interview with Mr. Navrátil, Director of the National Cyber Information Security Office, I learned that the Ministry of Finance only approved 8 seats. As I should please, Prime Minister, interpret your words in the same interview where you said: We do not want any savings, the NÚKIB had a request for an increase of 48 tables and finally we agreed on 32 tables, so it is an increase. Since the 8 tables are one-quarter of the 32 tables under discussion, I am concerned about ensuring the country's cyber security. I would also like, Prime Minister, to follow up on a sentence from your reply to the previously mentioned interpelation where you say: The government certainly does not underestimate the importance of cyber security and, in particular, the seriousness of cyber threats to the security of our state and the entire society. And I ask, why is the average salary at the National Bureau of Cyber Information Security lower this year than in the previous year? [[Attention on time.]] This is a real threat to our country's cyber security and is contrary to your words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u7	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond to your interpellation within 30 days. And now, please, Mrs Richterová, who will interpel in the matter of the crisis in the medical opinion service and its failure to address it. Mr Rakušan will be prepared because I have information that Mr Lipavský apologizes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u8	I am addressing the absent Prime Minister on a matter where, today, many thousands of opinions are needed to actually grant a contribution to the care or recognition of disability pensions in delay, in delay. So this is about thousands of inhabitants of our country, and it is about the long term. Today, during the interview with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, it became clear that it was unclear whether there were accredited workplaces in our country that could actually prepare new opinion doctors. Since this is an area in which cooperation between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health needs to be ensured, I would like you to consider order in this area. It is something in the finals about some 1,150,000 citizens of our country. Specifically, the entire agenda involves about 430 thousand proceedings a year. So it's a huge thing. [[14.40 hours]] In addition to accreditation, I wonder if it will succeed - once again in the gesture of the entire government - in order to move the unified information system of work and social affairs and to connect IT systems so that doctors can have a unified database on this matter. Finally, there were very vague promises about the use of foreign experience. Once again, as the Czech Republic, we can participate in a European project that allows for a kind of self-evaluation of citizens. I wonder if we're really going to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u9	Thank you, too. I will now introduce you to the note that has been delivered to me. Mrs Malá apologizes today from 14.30 for health reasons, Mr Strýček apologizes between 14.30 and 16.30 for work reasons, and Vice-President Petr Fiala apologises from 16.00 to the end of the day for working reasons. Now, Mr Lipavský would be next, but he is not present, as I have been informed, so please Mr Rakušan, who will interpel in the matter of information on the preparation of the Government of the Czech Republic for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and will be prepared by President Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, to finally give us some essential information on what the Czech Republic's preparations for the Presidency of the European Union look like. We do not know what the priorities of our Presidency are right now. We hear and read from the media that funding is reduced by almost half. At present, a billion and 200 million are expected. The government approved it. We know that part of the ministers of social democracy did not agree with the reduction. Yesterday, we proposed an extraordinary item in the programme that would have been relevant. You government MPs didn't approve. The point hasn't been included. Then we listen to the Prime Minister's speech, which says I'll give you the information, so ask me, there's no problem talking about it. Then why, my dear colleagues, did you not approve us on the agenda item information about the Presidency of the Czech Republic when your Prime Minister himself wants to provide us with this information. Dear Prime Minister, give it to us. Tell us what ambition the Presidency of the Czech Republic has in the European Union, tell us whether this will not be another blunder after the government has been dropped during the Presidency, please tell us whether the million CZK 20,000 has any ambition for the Czech Republic to make a good advertisement and a good name and to show that it is able to play a significant role within the European Union. We currently - a billion two hundred million crowns - apologize - do not fully believe that at present. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister for clear information as to what will happen to our Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u11	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister will respond to your interview in writing within 30 days. And now, please, Mr Radim Fiala, who will interpel in the case of the Institute of Bearing. [[He's not in the O.R.]] The MP was just here, and if he doesn't show up, his interpellation is failing. Ambassador, you're up. I beg you to keep your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u12	So I made it just in time. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here to address Prime Minister Babiš on the question of the legislative proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, which is called, in short, the Institute of Perdition of a Stranger. It means and concerns the fact that it will not be possible to expel refugees who commit serious crimes in our country and who are at risk in their country. My question is simple, Prime Minister. So we're gonna keep people here who are gonna commit crime, give them welfare, feed them, and not get them expelled? And I'm asking you, the question is simple: Is this in the interests of Czech citizens? Is this in the interests of Czech citizens? And if that's the rule we take from the European Union, then who are you serving, Prime Minister? The European Union or the Czech citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u13	Thank you for your time, and I now ask Mr Feri, with his last interview with the Prime Minister, on the issue of a class action. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm going to want to know the answer to this interpellation and I can speak to it now. Interpelation concerns mass lawsuits. The draft of the Government Bill on Mass Actions was sent and transferred to the Government in the summer and has not yet been discussed. It is a vital press that can transform the form of a civil process. We certainly need to resolve the questions of whether we need mass action, if the classic finding procedure is not enough to do this, but we should deal with those issues in the Chamber of Deputies, with the professional public, in the Constitutional and Legal Committee. And we should already know if this will be discussed and when it will be passed on to us. That is, my question is when it will be on the agenda, on the agenda of the Government, and when the matter will be and, where appropriate, in what form, if there are any further amendments planned, when it will be referred to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u15	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister, as well as other interpelations from this block, will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. That was the last of the interviews on the application list. I therefore point out to the Chamber of Deputies that all applications for the Prime Minister to intervene have been exhausted. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. And I call on Mr Adam Kalous to give an interview to the first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mr Pour will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to interpel you on a very specific matter, in the case of the abolished district department of the Police of the Czech Republic in Javorník. The district department of the Police of the Czech Republic and with the maid worked in the town of Javorník until 30 April 2011 when the reason for the abolition of this police station was the unsatisfactory state of the building, which at that time was the property of the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the high cost of its reconstruction. Then the district department was moved to the town of Žulová, which is less than 30 kilometers away. In order to ensure security for its citizens in the territory of its cadastral, the City of Javorník concluded a contract with the security agency Aragon Security, s. r. o. in May 2014 to ensure the necessary security for the inhabitants of the city. However, this agency has no powers and can only remind citizens or misdemeanors and report other crimes to the Police of the Czech Republic. To date, this cooperation has cost CZK 5,290,000, which is about CZK 1 million a year. Moreover, the city wanted to reach out to the Police of the Czech Republic by purchasing and renovating a new building from its means. The costs of this purchase, but especially with the scale of the reconstruction defined by the police, were above the city budget and thus this variant was not accepted. Minister, I believe that the State should ensure that there is a police station in Javorník through the Ministry of the Interior and the police. Although the city is very inclined to return the service to Javorník, the police are demanding that the city cannot provide them financially on its budget. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you think that a good business card for the police is the fact that the activity is subservient to a private security agency without competence and at the cost of self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u17	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to the next MP, I will introduce you to your pardons. The Minister will answer your question in writing within 30 days because he is not present. We are also apologized to Minister Schillerová from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for reasons of work and Mrs Krutáková withdraws her apology from the afternoon meeting. Now, I ask Mr Pour, who will interpel Mrs Maláčová on the matter: when social benefits are not worth more than work. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u18	Madam Secretary, I am addressing you as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs with the following question. During the parliamentary days, a number of disgruntled citizens turned to me. Their problem had a common denominator: personal experience with citizens who abuse social benefits. Citizens are concerned that nowadays many people are worth not working and being at home on welfare. Instead of being grateful to society for their support, they often repay it by staying up late, disturbing the night's peace, drinking heavily, leaving a terrible mess behind. [[14.50 hours]] It is no secret that a number of children from these families, if you ask them what they want to be in the future, will tell you that they will be home on welfare as parents. I often hear that labour workers are afraid not to admit a dose, their workplaces are provided with security features so that clients can't directly endanger them. I was on a tram in Prague last time, where one lady of Romani origin taught the other how to proceed if they do not want to admit the dose and so-called yelling it out. An active search for work for these residents, which they show to the authorities, often looks like a man in full strength comes to his employer with words, here you can confirm that you don't want to hire me here. If he accidentally refuses to confirm the form with the words that the job would be, he'll get cursed or threatened. In my opinion, this situation is already unbearable and often increases extremist sentiments in the economically active population. Madam Secretary, I know that the Agency for Social Inclusion published a study in 2014 entitled When Work Pays, which did not come out too flatteringly for the current system. I haven't seen a positive shift since. I'd like to ask you a different question. [[Attention on time.]] What does the Ministry do and, rather, in the future, do not make it worth voluntarily staying at home on welfare instead of going to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u19	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u20	Mr President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to divide the answer to this interpelation into three areas: the price of work in the Czech Republic, the issue of executions and the issue of social benefits. I'm going to start with the most brief area, and that is the issue of social benefits. You know that at this point in time, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is meeting a very, very, let's say, large-scale work force, which deals with the revision of benefits, both housing benefits and employment benefits, or unemployment benefits, as well as foster benefits, and has a mandate to prepare a review of social benefits by the end of November. We have already developed this basis and legislative proposal at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but it is necessary to better communicate it with the municipalities that opposed this proposal. This means that, in December, a widely communicated basis and legislative proposal will be submitted to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As far as the cost of work is concerned. The minimum wage in the Czech Republic is CZK 13,350. You know I'm trying to raise her. At this point, social dialogue between the social partners is culminating, where we are discussing an increase on 1 January next year. You have probably noticed from the press that the surrounding states, such as Slovakia or Poland, have legally decided to increase their minimum wage to 60 per cent of their average wage. This would mean that the minimum wage in these countries will be CZK 20,000. And I firmly hope that the Czech Republic will follow the example of Slovakia and Poland and will follow this path. It would be enough for the minimum wage from next year to be at least CZK 14,700, which means increasing the minimum wage by 10 per cent. As far as the third area is concerned, that is the issue of execution. I think that the motivation of those people who are not worth working at the moment and rather receiving social benefits would make it very easy for them to increase the so-called "unusable minimum." This is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Justice, and believe me, at the level of the government, we are working on this issue, so that, in particular, low-income residents have enough incentive to work legally and not receive social benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u21	Thank you. The Member will have - he will not be interested in an additional question, so please Mr Feri, who will interpel Mrs Benešová on the idea of insolvency. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, thank you for being here, and I can ask you. You go to interpelations regularly, I'm glad. This interpelation concerns the idea of insolvency and especially in relation to the state budget. In February, the House issued an insolvency amendment, a debt amendment, which significantly increased the number of claims submitted by natural persons. Since 1 June 2019 the idea has increased dramatically, it was expected. The Ministry is responsible for implementing the amendment and bringing it to life. Unfortunately, the government is saving and all the ministries have received a clear directive from the Secretary of State, Dr. Schillerová, that they must cut their budgets. I know you're planning to cut the number of jobs in the Ministry by up to 10 percent. I certainly don't envy the situation. But I would like to ask if you and Minister Schillerová have discussed an increase, you have managed to negotiate 250 million, but another increase in the future to strengthen the insolvency sections of the regional courts and to manage these matters more quickly, to deal more efficiently and to ensure adequate premises and not to operate here with ideas, such as in Brno, that they will be handled in building cells in the court of the regional court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u23	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u24	Mr President, honourable Members, Mr Feri. So, of course, there is no need to deal with these matters further with Minister Schillerová, because we have taken such measures at the Ministry that justice will virtually not touch this reduction and we will take it from elsewhere, so there is no threat to the insolvency agenda as you ask. Otherwise, as far as the insolvency agenda is concerned, we monitor the current state of affairs every day on insolvency courts and expect an increased interest in debt relief, which has been confirmed. The aim is to analyse whether this will be short-term or long-term fluctuations and what trend we are facing. Since the entry into force of this amendment, which was June 2019, the insolvency courts are now registering 14 837 applications for debt relief. This represents an average idea of 153 proposals. In June and July, the daily average reached a peak, with the idea gradually decreasing from the second half of the year. It cannot be said that these were seasonal fluctuations caused by weaker autumn months, but this is usually the way we registered. This is consistent with the Ministry's expectations that a wave of increased interest is slowly flowing through insolvency courts. We expect stabilization after she's gone. But it cannot be denied that it is two and a half more proposals (?) It's more than it's ever been before. Statistics suggest that a number of debtors, in anticipation of a more moderate amendment, postponed the submission of the proposal, as the idea of the case against insolvency courts fell sharply in the very preceding months of this year. Meanwhile, the increase is between 30 and 40 percent, which we consider appropriate and consistent with the expectations of the explanatory report. If the current trend stands, at the end of the year, the overall idea could reach 29,500 things. In sum, however, there are fewer cases than in those crisis years 2013 and 2014, when their number exceeded 30,000. So no further measures need to be taken in relation to the Ministry of Finance, because the insolvency section will virtually not touch budget cuts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u25	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? He does, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u26	Thank you for your answer, it was exhausting. If the idea gets bigger, and very seriously, then what does it mean? Aren't those insolvency sections working out? It means that each of these things is paying less attention. Which, especially with the insolvency agenda, which is very complex, is, I think, very inappropriate, because there are matters concerning bankruptcy certificates, and there is also an investigation into the pursuit of dishonest intent, whether the debtor actually follows the rules and tries to maximize the satisfaction of creditors. That's something I really think should be addressed. What should be dealt with, not by contenting ourselves with the fact that these places will not be crossed, but by adding more. But that's not another question, I'd just like to ask you if it would be possible to give us a summary of what the amendment has brought to us in December after half a year of effectiveness of the proposal. In particular, I would like to ask the summary to focus on the question of the debtor's advice or the possibility of the insolvency court ordering the debtors financial advice or -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u27	Time, Mr. Ambassador. [[Thank you.]] Please, Madam Secretary, if she answers an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u28	This will certainly not affect the quality of the decision-making of insolvency matters, we do not yet have such signals, so, as I said, there is no need to take action. Even if we're on our guard, that's why we're watching. We can, of course, give you statistics, so contact me, exchange e-mails, no problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u29	Thank you. I now beg Mr Bendl, who will interpel Mr Vojtěch on the availability of healthcare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u30	Minister, Mr Parliament, Mr President, I have a simple question. I was approached by a citizen of the Czech Republic, who is moving from the Hradec Králové Region to Central Bohemia, and when she was looking for a gynecologist, because she is in a relatively advanced stage of pregnancy and cannot commute for hours and hours to her gynecologist to the Hradec Králové Region because she will already be moved, she found that gynecologists made registration conditional on signing an above-standard care contract. Otherwise, they won't register her. So I wanted to know if you knew about this practice. If not, if you are prepared to find out about this, and if so, whether it is normal, whether such a practice is in order and the Ministry of Health approves it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u31	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u32	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Member, thank you for asking. It's not normal. Because according to the Public Health Insurance Act, if the provider has a contract with the health insurance undertaking and the relevant patient is insured with this health insurance undertaking, then each insured person has the right to provide paid services to the extent and under the conditions laid down by the law, that is the Public Health Insurance Act, and the health service provider must not accept any remuneration for these paid services from the insured person. It would have to be some above-standard service that is not standardized, which registration with the health service provider, which is obviously also a gynecologist, is clearly not in my view. Thus, it excludes - it is Section 11 of the Public Health Insurance Act - that the provider should ask the insured person to pay for the health service paid by the health insurance undertaking. And of course, this service is covered by a health insurance company, because if the gynecologist registers a patient, then of course she gets a refund from her health insurance company. So much for that. Of course, the provider may apply for reimbursement for some services that are not normally covered. Then it must be clearly paid according to the price list, it must be published, the insured person must be informed accordingly. But I think that as he describes it - and I would obviously need to know more detail - it is not that a doctor should not make the provision of paid services subject to such a condition, and this violates the law and also the contract with his health insurance company. In this regard, I would recommend that this woman as an insured person should turn to a complaint against her health insurance company, where she will describe this. Of course, it can also be noted to the Ministry of Health, but it must be handled by the health insurance company with which the provider has a contract, and the practice you are talking about is a breach of the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u33	Thank you, too. The Member will have an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u34	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister. The question of what to tell her now, because she's afraid if she complains about the doctor, what's going to happen with the care? Do you understand me? That it's on the human level - I'd like to register with you, you don't want me and you only say under the terms of the above-standard contract, so I'll go to the relevant insurance company, I'll complain about you. What kind of treatment would that be? But I understand the answer, thank you for it. I'm sure we can work something out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u35	Thank you. The Minister will no longer respond, so I beg Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel Mr Havlíček on the issue of promises of error, water under Kladno. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u36	Dear Minister, in the past your resort has allocated CZK 250 million to protect millions of ccs of water under Kladno, which is slowly flooding abandoned mines just below Kladno. The water level is gradually rising and there is a serious risk that it will reach a level that is infested from the operation of the Poldi steelworks. The earmarked funds of a quarter of a billion crowns, that is indeed a lot of money and they should help prevent it. According to public information, the Ministry of Industry and Trade wants to cancel this reserve and dissolve it in the state budget, so it would not send a crown to Kladno. Your argument is that water will not flow to the surface for decades. Five months ago, Ústí's Fuel Kombinate, which is in charge of underground water, warned that mining waters should begin to flow to the surface around 2025, which is five years from now. But whether it is five or ten years, I consider water protection to be very important especially at a time when the climate is changing and it is becoming scarce, as almost everyone has felt in recent years. Therefore, I simply do not understand your ministry's approach, nor do the citizens of the country or the local government understand it. Honestly, I don't blame you. Dear Minister, I therefore ask why the protection of the groundwater is not important to you. Why do you plan to propose the abolition of the Government resolution of 2017 and why do you argue with a different time perspective than the state enterprise in charge of the area? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u37	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u38	Mr President, Madam Members, honourable Members, thank you very much for your question. As it was interpreted, there is a number of not entirely accurate information, working with public, rather media information, but, in principle, the ban is that we must use resources that have been allocated to something purposefully. And if we see that purposefulness is different there, then it has to be overqualified. That's the essence of the whole thing. On the contrary, if it wasn't for the Ministry of Industry and Trade, there was absolutely nothing there, because if you were watching it in the past, then one billion crowns that we investigated in the bailout in Moravia, we actively transferred to this problem of CZK 250 million. [[15.10 hours]] The problem evolves over time. And as he seemed like a possible real danger a few years ago, at this point, it seems a little different. However, this does not mean that there will be nothing done, nothing done. So I'm gonna have to recapitulate the state that it was. It is true that, based on an analysis of the risks of the old environmental burden in the Kladno-východ zone, extensive contamination of the earth in the area of the former Poldi steelworks was identified in 2013. It has been proven, as you rightly said, up to about 90 meters below the existing terrain. On the basis of this information, it was found that certain identifiable contamination and then contamination of these mining waters would occur during the implementation of an approved and valid plan for the extraction of mining waters. Indeed, the damage would have a fundamental economic and financial impact. It should be recalled that at present, in the region in question, the issue of eliminating the consequences of mining activity, including the solution to mining water issues - and this is an important report - is the state-owned company Fuel Kombinate Ústí, which, however, has no link to the environmental burden at all. At present, there is spontaneous heating of the ground floored spaces and a rise in the surface. Now, what's important? Taking into account the above, a technical solution was proposed in 2017 to prevent the spread of pollution consisting of the excavation of pumping wells, the installation of pumping equipment, the construction of waterloaders, the modification of mining water, the connection to public waterworks and the investment costs of the construction envisaged CZK 250 million. However, on the basis of the results of the measurements and calculations carried out for the State-owned company, the Fuel Kombinate Ústí, namely by Green Gas DPB at the end of 2017, it was found that the pollution of mining waters could occur if it occurred only in decades, and thus only in so-called. trace amounts. Thus, no funds made available by the Government's resolution of 2017 have been drawn yet, because the government has identified completely - and this is important - strict actions that can be financed from these funds. Specifically, it was CZK 150 million for pumping wells and CZK 100 million for mining water treatment plant. PKÚ for this purpose with the maximum amount of information on the basis of which a decision on the follow-up could be made, inter alia. He commissioned a public contract to make seven pieces of hydrogeological exploration wells, processing a mathematical model, that's what should be done now. The MIT therefore considers that the government should be informed of the proposal for a comprehensive set of measures leading to the elimination of negative effects, as a whole. However, it is quite clear that this task is already beyond the remit of our department. That is why I proposed to the government, and it will now be at the next meeting of the government, so that the Ministry of the Environment is the processor of this downstream material. The MIT will, of course, be fully concerted and will pass on all the acquired knowledge from those studies that are now being paid for, that is, as I said, seven geological exploration wells, with the need to say that the MIT, respectively. As a subordinate institution of the MIT, Ústí's fuel harvester has no legal link or responsibility to the old environmental burden, and the activity beyond the obligation to monitor the quality of mining waters has been carried out in recent years, on the grounds that the State undertaking was aware of its obligation to act in accordance with the general obligation to intervene in the sense of civil law. So the purpose of this effort was to indicate and propose a further approach that would avert or mitigate the impending environmental damage. So the aim of the planned actions currently under the PKU is to ensure a smooth discharge of all mining waters into the public water supply. After flooding all the areas of the former area of the PKÚ at the same time, all steps will be taken to avoid negative impacts on the hydrosphere, so that measures and contamination of the environment are not neglected, or, on the contrary, to take all - it will be, I think it is important - technical measures that would be oversized. [[The President draws attention to the time]] There's more -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u39	Mr. Secretary, I can't allow it. The Member will ask you an additional question, I suppose, and will allow you to continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, I draw from the media and from the information of the authorities. So I ask, in view of the gravity of the situation, because Kladno is in the area of drying landscape, running out of water and having to bring water all the way from Želivka, and if this source is really contaminated, it is a large source that accounts for about one third of the year's consumption in the Czech Republic, so I think it would be good to deal with the situation so that it could be pumped and that 250 million could just be used for pumping, and that would reduce the level and not go all the way to the contaminated part. Sounds to me like you're tossing it around a little bit like a hot potato. So my question is: if you want to transfer it to the Ministry of the Environment, I understand that, but anyway, given what location it is, it should be both in the competence of both. And if that $250 million is transferred from you to the Department of the Environment. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u41	Thank you and I ask the Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u42	The government has to decide that, because it is not CZK 250 million in principle. They're allocated, and they're fine. But they must be drained purposefully. And so if it has now proved that the contamination is different, and at this point, we would actually be in a position to allocate money to something other than what it was, that's what I said, 150 and 100 million crowns, so everything has to be re-qualified and say what the money is used for. I don't think that's gonna be a problem. If we agree that there is a danger and that there are other measures to be taken, then the money will apply to it. So it's not really about saving $250 million somewhere right now. At this point, we couldn't take the money and use it for anything other than the Ministry of Finance's approval at some point in 2017. So there's no loophole behind it, there's no attempt to save 250 million crowns, there's really no problem. There's only one thing that has changed in the sense that the way it's frightened a little bit, what could happen at this point seems to be far from it. And it's not just a matter of decades, but of that degree. However, it will be evaluated. I agree with you that at this point citizens need not be interested in whether the MIT is doing it or whether the MIT is doing it, we have to deal with the government, but I guarantee that if anything needs to be done there to prevent it, then of course the money will be used for it and it just needs to be requalified for what exactly it will be. And it's a pretty challenging subject, because it's not quite that easy here in five minutes to explain everything. I think it wouldn't be bad if the representatives of the resorts went to the region and there were really meetings with the citizens, and there would really explain what the situation is, what they may be worried about, they can't worry about how much money has been allocated to, how much is allocated and what steps will be taken. I think that would be fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u43	Thank you, thank you for keeping time. And please Mrs Majerová Zahradníková, who will intersect the absent Minister of Plaga on the count of Romani pupils in schools. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u44	Thank you for the floor. I am sorry to intersect the Minister of Education who is not here again, so we will have to wait for a written reply. However, many schools and school heads and kindergartens have turned to me to ask the Ministry of Education why they requested another document from school directors, which this time wants them to find out the number of Romani pupils. Václav Pícl, Deputy Head of Education Section, specifically wrote to the directors in a letter to give a qualified estimate of the number of Romani pupils. In this context, the ministry officials have formulated the definition of romance that really scares my hair off, and I wonder if it's just an embarrassing and awkward joke. So now I would like to read the definition of identification: Rom is referred to as an individual who considers himself to be one without necessarily claiming that jurisdiction under all circumstances, or is regarded as an important part of his surroundings on the basis of real or presumed anthropological, cultural or social indicators. - All it would have had to do was change the word "Roma" and we'd have been in '38. Could the Minister of Education Robert Plaga please give the House an explanation on the matter referred to above? If it was supposed to be a stupid joke from his officials, it really didn't go well and the parents of Romani pupils have every right to feel hurt. Last but not least, Minister Plaga, director of kindergartens and schools, was once again overwhelmed by another unnecessary bureaucratic questionnaire. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u45	Thank you. The Minister will respond to your interview in writing within 30 days. And now I beg Mr Kolovratník, who will interpel Mr Kremlík on the preparation of high-speed lines in the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u46	Hello, good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, and I would like to address our colleague, Minister Kremlík. Minister, this is about a high-speed railroad. I mean, it certainly isn't, or there won't be an interpelation where the opposition might object to some intentionally program positive or negative. It is an interpelation of matter and concrete, where I would like to ask about the possibilities of cooperation, respectively. help us Members, legislation you, executively responsible for the construction of infrastructure. I'll be specific. What I'd like to do or what I'd like to ask. I will remind you that in March 2017, even in the last parliamentary term, the House, by a large majority across all political parties, agreed a breakthrough resolution which was co-authored by me, colleagues from the Economic Committee and from the opposition, then members of Šidlo and Laudát. and the resolution has worked. The government then launched concrete actions, adopted a specific action plan for the construction of the rapid links that are being implemented and under way today. Anyway, we communicate with SŽDS and we have a signed contract with the French SNCF, which builds their TGV. French experts say from their own experience that simply with the speed of construction and funding, we will have problems if we do not change legislation. And it's not just about the so-called thing. Line law 416 also applies to the financing of making a commitment that, for example, a project that will be financed for 4, 5, 6 years will have sufficient funding each year. This, too, could be treated in the form of a legislative or legal obligation. And to that, Minister, I would like to ask how, therefore, the House can help to speed up the construction of fast connections during this period in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u47	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u48	Mr President, Mr Kolovratník, honourable Member, honourable Members, we are currently taking steps on the preparation of high-speed lines, in order to finally start building high-speed lines in the Czech Republic. They've been talking about it for years. It's been written about for years. We're taking concrete steps now. I'll tell you which one. By the end of this year, the feasibility study of Prague-Dresden will be completed. Work on the arm of Prague-Brno-Břeclav, Brno-Přerov-Ostrava is ongoing. A study for the Prague-Beroun section is already completed. Here's the word "feasibility study." It is extremely important for me as Minister of Transport to communicate with self-government when feasibility studies are being processed. With municipalities, with regions, through places, through villages, through which high-speed lines are planned or will be planned. I believe that many of you have already spoken to your colleague, Director General Svoboda, on this subject. What else is going on? The geodetic focus of the first sections of high-speed lines is underway. Environmental and geology surveys will also be commissioned. The preparation of the documentation for issuing the decision on the location of the building is ongoing. There was a preliminary market consultation on the assignment of documentation for the regional decision of the high-speed line Prague-Běchovice-Poříčany. And the first stage of the high-speed line Prague-Brno. These are basically the first pilot sections to be built. The Railway Infrastructure Administration works closely with the national railway carrier in France. The preparation of VRT is accelerating for several years. If these consultations did not take place, we are not where we are and where we want to be in the future. The main subject of mutual cooperation with the national railway carrier in France is the creation of the SŽDC manual for the design of high-speed lines at the stage of documentation for the territorial decision. The process of assessing high-speed lines on the environment is even underway. The pilot sections of the high-speed lines were discussed with representatives of the Ministry of Environment, environmental impact assessment bodies and regional planning of the regions concerned. The Railway Infrastructure Administration also requested an update of the principles of territorial development of the regions concerned, where the SŽDC requires a design corridor of publicly beneficial buildings enabling them to be implemented. And now when construction begins. Construction of the first sections of high-speed lines will start in 2025. In 2030, the entire Prague-Brno high-speed route should be operated. We finalize the contract with the German partner DB Netz and the Railway Infrastructure Administration on the joint preparation of the high-speed line Dresden-Prague. We expect the signature of this document in December of this year. The construction of the Krušnohorský tunnel is expected to start in 2027. CZK 250 million is claimed for the preparation of high-speed lines in 2020. But, of course, this work cannot be done without the help of you Members, fellow senators and, of course, the President. You are probably all informed that the Ministry of Transport has prepared a government proposal for an amendment to the Act on Acceleration of Transport Infrastructure Construction. It is currently expected and will in essence be the opinion of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government every day, so that this complete proposal of the Government law, which amends the 48th, can be discussed by the Government and transferred to the Chamber of Deputies. I would like the Chamber of Deputies to receive it in November and, ideally, in November, it can still be discussed here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. As the Ministry of Transport, we are prepared to provide synergies with regard to the interpretation of the new proposals contained in the draft law for a better understanding of its substance. We also benefit from your help and awareness about this topic in the regions in which you work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u49	Thank you. The Member will no longer be interested in an additional question, so please Mr Fiala, who will intersect the absent Minister Hamáček on the subject of the Institute of Perdition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u50	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask the absent Minister Hamáček the same question I asked about an hour ago of the absent Prime Minister. So what I want to ask you is that the legislative proposals of the Ministry of the Interior on not going to expel refugees who have committed serious crimes and who are at risk in their country. I want to ask you, Minister, as you have already told the Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamur that according to you and the Ministry of the Interior, this situation has existed in law in the Czech Republic for 20 years. Is that true, and we haven't done anything about it in 20 years? I ask because, of course, we know from the press and from the media that in the Czech Republic the crimes of immigrants are multiplying in our territory. And I want to ask you, Minister - you say it's getting tougher on the contrary. But in my opinion, you mix pears with apples and apples with pears just to cover up the fact that it's really a problem. I even read on iROZHLAS.cz that it is not a dictation of Brussels. So, Minister, I want to ask you: is it really on your own initiative or on the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior that you want us to take care of immigrants who commit crimes here, continue to feed them, continue to pay them social benefits and so on? And then I want to ask you about the origins. Whether the origin is really yours and the Ministry of the Interior or the European Union. Because I read in the explanatory memorandum that you are translating a paragraph on the basis of the case law of the European Court of Justice. Then what is it really like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u51	Thank you, too. The Minister will respond to your intervention in writing within 30 days. And now, please, Mrs Balcarová, who will interpel Mrs Schillerová on the future of the Počerady Power Plant. Mrs Balcarová is not present, so please Mr Profant. If he is not present, I would like to ask Mr Farský. He's not present either. Madame, I'm late. [[to Mrs Balcar's coming.]] So I'd like to ask Mr. Třešňák, who I don't see either. So I would like to ask Mr Navrkal, and I do not see him either. So I would like to ask Mr Kytýr, who is present, I thank him very much for that. It will interpel Mrs Maláčová on the financing of social services in 2020. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to focus my intervention on the debate that is yet to be discussed in the context of the Social Services budget for 2020. At this time the Committee of the Council of the Czech Association of Regions at its meeting on 10 October 2019 stated that transfers pursuant to Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, planned in the budget for 2020 of 17.84 billion do not cover a salary increase of CZK 1,500 and the cancellation of the scale number 1. At this point, we are talking about an indication that has been said of roughly CZK 1.7 billion. I would like to ask for assurances that, as this budget amount in the budget is for transfers in social services for 2020, it includes these costs associated with an increase in salaries of CZK 1,500, and that we will not be faced with any discussions and extraordinary meetings here in the Chamber of Deputies on disproposals in numbers that would mean a financial crisis in social services at some time, either after the state budget has been discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u53	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, in the course of the negotiations on the draft state budget for next year, I strongly advocated this, and you mentioned this in order to increase the amount of funding for social services. The good news is that, just before the government's state budget was approved, we also agreed to raise salaries in the public administration. You mentioned the cancellation of Table 1, which will mainly affect THP workers in social services, and then a flat-rate salary increase of CZK 1,500, which will help in particular low-income state employees. This means, the lower the salary, the higher the remuneration of these 1,500 CZK will be, and unfortunately, despite record wage growth over the last five years, social workers are among the low-income ones. At present, CZK 17.8 billion is determined in the draft Act on the State Budget for Social Services, which is 2 billion more than the reference number set by the Ministry of Finance for next year. The Ministry of Finance originally proposed CZK 15,7 billion, a billion less than the funds for this year. However, I can say that the government's decision to increase salaries in the public sphere has been closely aligned, that we will still discuss the social services budget for next year in the framework of this House. This means that this number, 17.8 billion crowns, is not final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u55	Thank you, too. I wonder if the Member would be interested in an additional question. It will be. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u56	I'm so sorry. That means, I suppose, at this point, you have an indication of the amount of number that we should be discussing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u57	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary, if he answers an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u58	The answer is - I do not, because I am not a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Members and Members shall decide on the state budget. But, of course, we are counting firmly so that (a) the draft state budget mentions or takes into account the increase in salaries in the public sector and (b) the financial increase in the capacity of social services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u59	Thank you, and now, please, Mrs Richterová, who will interpel Mrs Maláčová again, on the matter of social care assistants - evaluation of the functioning, credit of the time worked. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u60	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad the Minister is here and that we can deal with social services assistants, which is a relatively new institute. I'm actually wondering if the Ministry has data on how many social services assistants in our country are working, whether they are somehow evaluating their functioning. And then I have this whole question. Our society is getting older, we all know that this will become an increasingly challenging challenge, and it is the social services assistants that could be part of the solution. So I'm wondering what practical things we're offering them when -- and that's field information -- they have a big problem with their retirement period. Unfortunately, I'm unlucky that Madam Secretary isn't listening to me right now... [[I understand.]] So the essence of this interpelation is whether there is any methodology at the Department of Labour that regulates how to count the worked-out retirement period for social care assistants if they take care of more than one person. For it is not clear to me why those who help more people, even though they are not related, should be discriminated against and why they should have difficulty starting their retirement period. It is related, I think, to the overall evaluation of this newly functioning institute or the possibility of working as an assistant to social services. I wonder, then, whether the Ministry is focusing on this in any way, and if such a methodology exists, whether I can be provided. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u61	Thank you. I ask the Minister to respond to this interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, so-called alternate periods of insurance are included in the period of pension insurance, which, among other things, are periods of personal care for a person under the age of 10 who is dependent on the assistance of another person at stage 1 or on a person dependent on the care of another person at stage 2 to 4 when living together in the home. A household condition is not required if it is a close person. With effect from 1 September 2018 pursuant to Act No. 191/2018 Sb., by which the Pension Insurance Act was amended, were included among persons participating in pension insurance through the Institute of Replacement Insurance Periods under the care of an dependent person, for whom no household condition is required, in addition to persons close to and assistants of social care pursuant to § 83 para. 1 of Law No. 108/2006, that means the Social Services Act. These supplementary periods of insurance, although neither pension insurance nor other payments are paid for them, shall be counted in full for the purposes of pension insurance as periods of insurance under the occupation of gainful activity, not to a reduced extent. If those periods fall within the relevant period from which income is collected for the calculation of the pension, i.e. the period determined in principle in 1986 and the year preceding the year of pension, then they are excluded from that period, the relevant period shall be reduced by them, so that even if the insured person does not have income at those times, there will be no dilution or reduction of the income achieved in the period prior to or after the beginning of that care. If an insured person, in addition to that care, is engaged in a gainful activity, he or she shall be able to choose either the deduction of income or the time excluded for calculating the pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u63	Thank you, too, and please, Madame. He's interested in a follow-up question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u64	Thank you for your answer. Let me ask you a specific question again. Is there any methodology governing the way the time worked is counted? Since social services assistants have met in practice that when they are caring for more than one person, applications are rejected. I understand that the Minister said it was kind of a universal thing, but I want to make sure that no such instruction came out of the Ministry. Second thing. How many of these assistants do we have? I'm very interested in that number. And three. Is the D.O.D. planning any more comprehensive evaluation of this new thing? Because I believe that as one way to face the challenge of ageing the population would deserve that evaluation. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u65	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u66	Thank you for the follow-up questions. Basically, what I said just now is true. This means that the law that applies to everyone applies to pension insurance periods. The amendment is also mentioned in Law No. 108/2006 Sb. As far as methodologies are concerned, we are not aware that such a methodology would apply. And even if it did, the methodology of the principle of the nature of the matter is a legal arrangement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u67	Thank you. And now, please, Mr Lipavský, who will interpel Minister Petříček on the issue of cyber security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent minister, I will therefore expect a written reply. Minister, I'm interrogating you on the cyber security issue of your ministry, which I consider as resistant to virtual attacks as a colander against leaking. The State Department, as well as the embassies that are established by it and are part of it, has long failed to meet the criteria of acceptance. They point out not only our secret services, but also repeated cases of successful hacker attacks and leaks of sensitive data. I'll only refresh your memory. These are hacked emails, Lotus Notes system, it's security on embassy sites. It's actually a matter of the two systems, internal and external, where it doesn't really make it possible to do anything about it. So I'm asking the Minister the following questions. How does the Ministry transfer information between headquarters and embassies? How does it transmit information between the internal and external systems? And how has this system changed since the last major cyber attacks? How is it that the MZV still hasn't solved the security of its mailboxes when the first attacks have been known since 2017? How did the Ministry of Finance implement the recommendations of the SAO, or how many of these recommendations have been implemented? I am also interested in why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not included its e-mail boxes in the decree on important information systems, thereby strengthening their protection. Why did it refuse after the first big attack in 2016 and 2017? And why doesn't it happen now that we actually know there are other attacks? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And last but not least, thank you for your attention. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u69	Thank you, too. The Minister will respond to your intervention in writing within 30 days. Please, Mrs Hyťhová, who will intersect the absent minister Hamáček on the abolition of the Předlice integration centre in ÚK.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u70	I'm going to intersect the absent minister Hamáček. Dear Minister, at the beginning of 2017, we sent a letter to Mr Chovanc, the Minister of the Interior at the time, from the Ústí Region, where we were among other things in the ruling coalition with ČSSD and KSČM, where the Ministry asked for the abolition of the Integration Asylum Centre in Předlice in Ústí nad Labem. The date of 11. 1. 2017 was agreed by the Representation of the Ústí Region, where it was stated, among other things, that the Region required a gradual reduction of the Centre's activities and its subsequent abolition. We do not agree with the ongoing efforts of the government of the Czech Republic and the state administration to establish and operate integration asylum centres or detention facilities also in the territory of the structurally affected region with a large presence of socially excluded localities such as the Ústecký Region. I will remind you that one third of all socially excluded localities are in our country. It has been two years since the Ministry had sent us a negative response to this issue. Once again, I would like to ask the Ministry to comply with the request of the Ústí Region to abolish the Integration Asylum Centre in Ústí nad Labem. I would also like to ask if there is any attempt by the Ministry to dampen them until they completely abolish the integration asylum centres both in Brno, Jaroměř and Havířov? Thank you so much for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u71	Thank you, too. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Please Mrs Pekarová, who will interpel Mr Brabec on the impact of the Turów mine on the environment in the Czech Republic. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u72	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, near the Polish brown coal mine and Turów power plant, there are 30,000 inhabitants of the Liberec Region, especially in Frýdlantska and Hrádecka. These people, in connection with the activities of the Polish mine and the power plants, have long complained about the disappearance of surface and ground water and polluted air. The mining at the Turów mine was to be completed by 30. 4. 2020 - Polish mining company PGE intends to continue mining until 2044, which means 24 years more, despite the protests of citizens from both the Polish and Czech and German sides of the border. The power plant produces 6.9 million tonnes of CO2 per year at the mine, which is said to be even higher. In addition, when expanding the mine, this mine would immediately reach the Czech border. According to some data, it should only be less than a kilometer from the nearest Czech houses. Instead of helping its citizens in this situation, the government is still throwing a stick at them, perhaps too short a time to get to know the EIA documentation, which has 783 pages and has not even been translated into Czech. Citizens living in this area are concerned about the environment they will continue to live in, and I share these concerns. Dirty air doesn't solve state boundaries and disappearing water doesn't stop at the line on the map. Therefore, Minister, I ask you, what is the state of the EIA documentation discussion in connection with the extension and extension of mining in the Turów mine. How do you intend to avoid the negative effects of the mine and the thermal power plant on the inhabitants of the Czech Republic? And what has the Czech government done to ensure that 30,000 Czech citizens do not lose the remains of water that remain in the wells so far? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u73	Thank you, too. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, I know the situation very well there, because I have personally dealt with this case for two years. So I have to say no to the fact that the government wouldn't deal with this thing, or that it would even put its citizens under the bus. I was talking about the Turów mine, I must say, with several Polish environmental ministers, because only in my era there were about three, maybe even four, I am not quite sure, and we even got the topic repeatedly to the level of premieres' meetings, then the Polish Prime Minister and now Prime Minister Morawiecký. I will say, frankly, that the Czech Republic, as a matter of fact, the Ministry of the Environment would prefer not to expand the mine at all. I think we can all agree on that, and not just the citizens of the coal and the immediate surroundings. However, the Czech Republic has certain possibilities that result from the interstate process of the EIA, when I dare say that we make the most of these possibilities. The problem these two years has been that the Polish party has long promised us the EIA documentation that it will provide us with. She's already extended that term three times. Finally, we have been provided with the documentation and we have actually prepared it in cooperation with the Liberec Region and with the surrounding municipalities literally hundreds, or I think it was perhaps thousands of specific comments. Some of them were unified. They just sounded from hundreds of citizens. [[15.50 hours]] And now I'm not going back to those dozens of negotiations that have taken place in the past two years, but I'm going to say the last major one. At the beginning of October, because there was still another meeting with the region in September, at the beginning of October there were so-called expert consultations with Poland, which were two days. In addition to experts from the Ministry of Environment, experts from the Czech Geological Services, the Liberec Region, the Regional Hygiene Station and others took part. At this meeting, important agreements were reached for the Czech Republic. And, as you rightly say, the greatest fear of the people around the mine is from the loss of water, because it has already occurred once. It occurred in the 1980's, where one of the tectonic or geological faults was carried over, and thus in some wells there was a decline of up to 15 meters to 20 meters. However, there was still a relatively large amount of water back then, which means it didn't mean at the time, it didn't pose any threat. The Ministry of the Environment has already ensured from its money the extension of the monitoring network of hydrogeological wells. The next extension will follow. Among other things, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, we have provided tens of millions of crowns for project documentation for possible alternative water management if these people really lose the water. So that's what we're dealing with today in cooperation with the water companies. The sealing wall will be extended as part of the implementation to protect citizens from the loss of groundwater. The monitoring network will be extended and Poland will inform the Czech Republic every three months about the development of groundwater levels. Monitoring will take place in the field of air and noise, where it has not yet been proven to exceed the limits, and in the field of terrain declines. The Polish party clearly undertook to immediately impose corrective measures on the investor in the event of proof of negative effects on the territory of the Czech Republic. All these agreements will be part of the final EIA opinion for the Czech Republic, which will be issued in mid-November 2019. We're in intensive contact with the county, especially with the Governor of Půta, who also negotiates on his line. He negotiates with us as well as the possibility of building a protective wall, which shades the quarry from the nearest village in the Czech Republic. These meetings are very hard. You can imagine that Poland is a very important project. But we have made it clear that we will do everything we can to defend the interests of Czech citizens, even if we have to go into some judicial dispute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u75	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u76	Thank you for your answers. So I understand so much that you don't expect there to be a chance, even though I appreciate the long-term effort and dozens of negotiations at the level of prime ministers, but that there would be a chance to avoid this decision, i.e. the extension of the mining and operation of the power plant by up to 24 years, which is really a very long stretch, we'll probably agree, so you don't really believe that this would happen, because even the measures you take from the point of view of water are, let's say, on the remediation of any negative effects. If you were to say, for example, a percentage, as you see the chance, Minister, of preventing the final decision, or at least reducing the time and expansiveness of the entire mining expansion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u77	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u78	I'm sorry, I'm not gonna go into any speculation as a percentage. I am just saying that the interstate process of the EIA gives us just as much as it gives us Germany, because it's on a three-way line, it gives us some possibilities. However, if the investor meets the conditions that are set there, it is not easy, or it would not be at all easy, and I say this very euphemistically, to prevent the project. We can imagine... As of course, there are similar projects where, on the contrary, someone wants to prevent this from happening in the Czech Republic from abroad and has exactly the same possibilities within the interstate EIA to prevent us from doing something. We are, and I say this quite frankly, we are preparing, of course we are discussing this matter with Poland. There are also activities of some NGOs in Poland, as well as in the Czech Republic. Now I don't want to say what they're going to do, because, of course, there's a possibility that they're going to take some more steps, even in that legal position. We must, of course, prepare ourselves with the precautionary principle for the possibility that we will not prevent the project from being legally impossible, we are talking intensively about it with the Liberec Region, and that we must simply protect our people against the consequences. And again, we'd rather not have this project. And that's where we're going to try to develop some other activities. But we have to be prepared for the other option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u79	Thank you. Mr Martínek will be next to be interviewed. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to the note cards. Mr Schwarzenberg apologizes to us between 14.30 and 19.00 for health reasons and Mrs Vostrá between 15.30 and 21.00 for illness. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u80	Dear absent minister, on the initiative of the citizens of the Liberec Region, from which I come, I intercede you in the matter of fees in the context of compulsory practice of certain medical disciplines, namely in the study of medical paramedics. Practice in general is crucial for preparing for future occupations. Medical rescue service of the Liberec Region according to information on its website charges CZK 20 per hour for internships plus a one-off fee of CZK 200. The amount may seem small, but with a total of 600 hours it is CZK 12,000 for students. This is the case, for example, in the field of special pedagogy, where students are required to have a certain length of professional experience in facilities related to the field of study - here in particular in speech and/or surdopedic facilities. Many students from these facilities face the obligation to pay for their own funds or even to refuse. Since these facilities are not many in the Czech Republic and are distributed differently, students have no choice but to pay for this work for the public through their own resources in the required professional practice. I ask you whether the Ministry knows about this problem and whether it is preparing some kind of solution so that students do not have to pay extra for unworried public work. Shouldn't the state intervene on this issue? Wouldn't it be appropriate for students to cover these costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u81	Thank you, too. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. [[Plaga]] And now, please, Mrs Golasowská, who will interpel Mrs Maláčová on the matter of daycare. And I'll hand over the chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u82	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u83	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, MPSV has decided to rename children's groups to a nursery where children have been placed since one year of age, and since 2016, we have also had a micro-weather project where children can be placed since half a year of age. I want to ask you why we drive little children out of functional families from the arms of mothers, virtually. fathers, to institutions, when in the case of vulnerable children we pay temporary foster parents so that young children do not have to be in institutions. How does the strengthening of intergenerational links go together when children, supported by the state, are being pulled away from their parents from their early age and spend at least their time with them? At the same time, we know that living in a nursery has various effects on the development and psyche of a child. In particular, experts talk about the stress of a child's separation, the long-term negative impact on the child's psyche, and the damage to the child's relationship with his parents. And yet I want to ask you how much it will cost us to rename children's groups into a nursery when the name of the nursery refers to us in the past, and why, on the contrary, the nursery cannot be renamed to children's groups. [[16.00 hours]] Next question. Better availability of nursery means greater employment for parents. How MPSV is involved in a larger increase in shorter periods and so-called. Home office by employers? What are the results of the pilot phase of micro-weather, which began in 2016 and was to last two and a half years? And the final question. What amount will parents, founder and state participate in the payment for the placement of the child in the nursery, knowing that the funding from European funds will end in two years? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u84	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, first of all, I would object to your expression that the availability of pre-school care means the expulsion of children from the arms of mothers. I think that matching work and family is a thing that should work normally in all civilized countries, and it's a matter of choice. As far as your question is concerned, the nursery does not exist legally as such since 2012. As far as your question about children's groups is concerned, at the moment, we have 968 children's groups with a capacity of 12 719 seats, and we have 98 microplanes with a capacity of 392 seats. On alternate attendance, as I warn you, not all children visit children's groups and micro-does for full attendance, but children often take turns in these places, so it is a capacity of 17,200 seats. By the end of 2021 we expect capacity of 1,150 children's groups, i.e. an increase of another 20 per cent. The interest in pre-school care for children under the age of three is huge in the Czech Republic, despite the fact that parents' contributions are relatively high in children's groups, up to CZK 8,000, and actually corresponds to the very high educational level of mothers, it concerns especially college-educated families, but not only them, but also, of course, the record employment that we have highest in the European Union as the Czech Republic. At the same time, I would also point out that interest in pre-school care is always at the first or second stage of all public opinion research, when parents complain about their availability as part of family policy. This means, on the question of what the state can do to support families, so always in the first or second place is to increase the availability of nursery. That's the answer, because this year we had about 30,000 rejected children. Although they were three years old, their parents were actually unsuccessful in placing these three-year-olds in kindergarten. As for your question about funding from the state budget. It is precisely because the current programming period and the financing of children's groups from the European Social Fund are ending, that is why we have a commitment to prepare funding from the state budget. I will just point out that the supported projects of children's groups and micro-cells end gradually from December 2021 to June 2022. That is why we need follow-up funding from the state budget. I prepared this novel and presented it. 7. 10. Inter-resorative commentary procedure has been completed and a settlement meeting has been held and at this point we are dealing with the contradictions that exist here. And I would also like to point out that already...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u86	I'm sorry, I've been dealing with something here, too, so I didn't really see the House meeting, but I'm gonna ask for peace of mind. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u87	We already have 75 percent of all children in children under three years of age. And as for the name of the nursery, why we want to rename the children's groups to the nursery, this is the clarity of the project, because parents often cannot imagine what the concept of a children's group means, what type of service is provided in this facility, and this name is also meant to symbolize the fact that it is a childcare facility, not education, and that the nursery is not meant to be a parallel facility to kindergarten, but it is intended to be a facility that will deal in particular with the care of children under three years of age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u88	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? [[Yes.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u89	I would just like to ask, Madam Secretary, if you have a specific calculation, how much it will cost us, which means, I mean, administratively renaming children's groups to a nursery. And then I had that question about the results of the pilot phase of the microjesles, if it's already known, because it should have taken two and a half years from 2016, that is, until the middle of this year. If you know any results yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u90	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u91	I'll start with the briefer one. It actually started two and a half years ago with the call, i.e. We do not have comprehensive results as such, I will have them within the next few months, because the announcement of the call does not automatically mean the establishment of the project and its operation for that period of two and a half years. However, in general it can be said that the interest in micro-doubts is enormous especially in large cities, and the educated population, and I can also say that the most interested people who place their children in micro-doubts place their children there part-time, i.e. for example for 10 hours a week, etc. This means that it shows once again that it is a thing that helps to reconcile work and family. As far as your question is concerned, to support part-time jobs. In the coming weeks, we will approve the Government's amendment to the Labour Code, which introduces, among other things, a shared job, which is to support the two or three people who share this position. As far as funding is concerned, in the amendment to the Act on Children's Groups and Cribs, it is set at the moment that part should be paid by the State. At this point, we are working with the amount of 5 to 6,000 crowns. Part of it should be financed by parents. This should be imposed on one third of the minimum wage, i.e. converted into the current minimum wage, it is roughly over CZK 4,000. Part should be financed by the founder, i.e. an employer or a municipality, and there is still a fourth financing component, and that is the European part, but it would not be through project management, but it would be called. the total amount. This means that the manger is counted on - financing four-componently. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u92	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Karla Maříková, with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček on the damage suffered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I was approached by the citizens of Kynšperk nad Ohří in Karlovy Vary about the damage caused to the family houses and operational buildings that occurred to them after the withdrawal of the water from the former quarry God's blessing, as the waters of flooded quarry lakes have increased and groundwater levels have increased. It has a negative effect on the surrounding development and is flooding lagoons in fields above the former deep mining. Minister, is your ministry familiar with this issue? If so, how do you solve this problem? Who is responsible for the current state of the mining works of the deep mining of God's blessing? Has a study of environmental effects been carried out prior to the completion of the water drain? And does your ministry have a geological study of the current state of affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u94	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u95	Mr President, Madam President, honourable Members. Thank you for asking. I'm not gonna play hero here right now, watching in detail the functions of the mining works of God's blessing. It's relatively new information to me, but I've been trying to put together all the information in the last tens of minutes, so I'm going to try to put it together in some structured form now and explain with the fact that, of course, I'm offering that if it's any interest, then we can still meet, eventually with you and the really competent person at the resort in charge, and talk about it even more in detail. And now for your questions, as I noted here. So familiar, yes, our ministry is having a problem with the fact that by 2015 it should have dealt with the consequences of mining activities after deep mining of brown coal in the locality of Kynšperk the Ministry of Environment and since 2015 is the legal successor of our mining company, I say our, i.e. the rezorní podnik, Fuel Kombinate Ústí. [[16.10 hours]] Well, that's the most important thing in the first phase. With the long-term extraction of water from the quarry being halted by Sokolovská uhelná, a private company, already in 2011, and this company had no obligation to operate the water supply, since there was therefore no administrative decision or any legal reason on the basis of which the obligation to draw water after the end of the extraction would be imposed. With the level rising 13 metres by 2015, the MIT was entrusted to the PKÚ, or our office in 2015, respectively. our organization, implement such technical measures to ensure that the rise of the level in the southern part of the quarry of God's blessing is stopped. Thus, between the flooded quarry and the Ohří River it was then built, which was sometimes in 2015-2016, a kind of drainage, partially tubular trench and since then the water level should be stable. In the following period, the findings of increased humidity were signaled by owners of some family houses. Now, let's see how this problem is solved. PKÚ commissioned a static assessment of six damaged objects, which were monitored quite closely throughout 2017 and then re-evaluated statically. No emergency status has been detected on any of these objects. However, signs of moisture and cracks in the amazement were noted. Then this continued by providing a hydrogeological assessment to the company, the whole area of the quarry, with the fact that the hydrogeological assessment was designed, and now I say specifically, excavate a network of some kind of observation wells and perform subsequent monitoring. Project documentation for the implementation of about six monitoring wells in the whole area of construction has been prepared. The report describes in detail all changes in hydrogeological conditions caused by the completion of the extraction of mining waters. Both surface quarrys, as well as the excavated areas after the extraction, were gradually filling with water. Subsequently there was a substantial change in the level of groundwater, which then influenced the basic conditions of the buildings. It is true that the citizens of Kynšperk had the opportunity to get acquainted with the results of the monitoring and the content of the final report at the public meeting at the municipal authority, where the establishment was arranged, and this is important, the contact point where our employee would be, to be a fully accurate employee of the PKU, fully available to citizens for the possibility of reporting any damage to their properties found or for any information relating to it. Gradually it was reported here based on this contact point of others - I have marked here - eleven damaged objects. With the fact that the PKÚ then commissioned a geotechnical assessment of the stability of the slope of the southern quarry, which is adjacent to the building. There have been signs of a fall in the horizontal shift of the slope. Now there are professional terms, I don't want to burden you, and the work was completed in the first quarter of 2019. Another part of the question, which was whether it was drawn up before the water draining of the study impact on the surroundings. Since Sokolovská coal was doing this, we do not know that Sokolovská would have done anything at that time. However, the truth is that a number of different assessments have been carried out in the past, studies assessing the state after the end of the extraction of water from the northern quarry. I've got names here who did all this. I don't think it's relevant right now, not even for the time to mention it. All the reports were focused on verifying the stability of the slope in the northern quarry and the stability of the railway pillar. And so now, at the same time, our ministry has a geological study of the current state. Yes, PKÚ is available from the detailed hydrogeological industry of April 2018. [[Attention on time.]] And the last person responsible for the current state of the deep mining - the Ministry of the Environment, because it is therefore called. old mining works belonging to the Ministry. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u96	The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I would probably just have a question as to whether it was offered where it was found that there was damage, if any compensation was offered to those owners. Or to those who will be found in the future that there has been damage to property, if the Ministry is even counting on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u98	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u99	I admit I don't know if anything's been offered. But I'm offering to find out, or how it can even proceed in this case, if there's any breach, if there's any source, any purpose drawing funds. If that were possible, as in other cases, we would certainly be positive about it, but I don't want to just say that something is going to happen here. And I don't even know if it was offered in the past or, you know, it wasn't. But I'm gonna find out, and I'm gonna tell you in person.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u100	Well, thank you. I'll read an apology. She apologizes today from 18:00 to 21:00, Mrs Věra Procházková. The next is Mr Ondřej Polanský with an interview with Minister Vladimír Kremlík on the reimbursement of the subsidised fare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u101	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Dear Minister, the system of reimbursement of the subsidised fare from the very beginning in 2018 was accompanied by concerns about the risk of abuse by the carrier. Not only did we pirát but also the professional public draw attention to this. I have expressed myself many times in the sense that the refund system is uncontrollable and easily exploitable. The Ministry does not have any systematic tool to control whether billed rides have actually been made, whether the carrier makes sense of the price of the fare, or whether the subsidy is actually provided only for the fare in the basic class. Unfortunately, these concerns are confirmed today. The server Zdopravy.cz informed about this last week. . The Leo Express ticket from Prague to Ostrava will total CZK 1,109. Incredible 831 kroner comes from the state register, i.e. from taxpayers' money. In your opinion, is it reasonable for a student train ticket between Prague and Ostrava to cost CZK 1,100, at least twice as much as it cost before introducing the subsidised fare? Is it acceptable for a paid fare carrier to return to the passenger in the form of credit for the next ride? How does the State intend to prevent the misuse of discounts from carriers? Do you intend to establish functional control mechanisms and, if so, when and especially how will they work? Finally, do you believe that the annual cost of fare discounts of CZK 6 billion is spent economically and serves its purpose? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u102	Thank you. And I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u103	Mr President, honourable Member, honourable Members. What was the aim of introducing a fare discount. The aim of introducing a 70% discount on train and bus fare for children, students and seniors was in particular to improve the availability of public transport for defined groups of passengers, in which there is generally a larger proportion of low-income people with lower means of travel. The granting of discounts to these groups is intended to make their financial situation significantly easier. At the same time, this benefit can be regarded as an additional stimulus to the use of public public public transport with an impact on lifestyle change, more frequent travel and youth habits. Not just them. One of the priorities of the Ministry of Transport is to strengthen the share of public transport at the expense of individual car transport. Analyses of all available data are not being processed at the moment, but we can already evaluate today that new discounts have been targeted correctly and the groups of passengers concerned have actually taken advantage of them. The assumption of the volume of discounts granted, which we have calculated before their introduction at around 5,8 billion per year and which envisaged a certain increase in the number of passengers in the particular passenger groups, is very close to the actual drawdown. The invoicing of the losses of carriers is not yet completed. It's been going on for the last month. The total amount paid for the first year of the discount is now CZK 5.6 billion. The use of discounts thus fulfilled the Ministry of Transport's prerequisites. At the same time, however, this did not happen, which we were a little afraid before the introduction of discounts that a number of public transport connections would be overloaded in such a way that would significantly limit other passengers without entitlement to a discount. Thus, we conclude that the carriers have not practically used the possibility to define connections in which a reduction due to capacity overload will not be provided. Of course, during the introduction of discounts and during their operation, we encountered some complications, whether administratively when concluding discounts agreements with individual carriers, or in the case of proof of entitlement to the passenger discount, where the public, i.e. passengers, had become accustomed to the new system. Overall, however, we have positive feedback from the public and questions or real problems are gradually decreasing, not that they are not. [[16.20 hours]] To prevent abuse of the discount system. The Ministry of Transport introduced preventive controls directly on carriers, buses and trains. They were mainly aimed at verifying whether the carriers actually control themselves that a passenger who wants a discounted ticket is entitled to a discount, i.e. whether the passenger submitted a document showing his age or status as a student. A total of approximately 800 buses and trains were checked per year. The number of incorrectly issued tickets discovered, i.e. those tickets where no discount was established, was only two dozen pieces. At the same time, it was examined whether the carrier had not issued a ticket to a fictitious passenger, with an additional compensation paid by the State. The D.O.D. inspectors didn't detect any such case. Overall, the Ministry of Transport considers the introduction of fare discounts for children, students and seniors to be successful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u104	Thank you, Minister. Are you interested in an additional question? Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u105	Thank you. I'm just going to point out the fact that I made in my speech. This means a student ticket between Prague and Ostrava for CZK 1,200, of which CZK 831 will then be returned in the form of a subsidy to the carrier. This is not a system that helps pensioners or students primarily, it is rather a social benefit for carriers. It's just a summary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u106	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Karel Rais with an interview for Minister Robert Plaga, who I do not see here, so I guess he's absent. It's about the reconstruction of college buildings. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u107	Thank you. Hello, Madam Secretary, ministers, colleagues, colleagues. Dear absent minister, I am addressing you in the matter of the reconstruction of college buildings and the possibility of co-financing by the state. As the rent prices rise, more and more students choose accommodation on college dorms as the only affordable housing option in the study. All dorms report full status. For example, the University of Technology in Brno has the largest capacity of dorms from all South Moravian universities. Overall, it is 6,000 beds. The capacity of the tracks was already fulfilled a month earlier this summer than last year and demand for this type of accommodation is increasing due to the situation on the real estate market in Brno. There is a similar situation at Charles University, which already had capacity at the end of July. At the same time, in large cities in particular, there are hundreds of students who are not satisfied. The problem is therefore a lack of capacity, which will constantly deteriorate in connection with the arrival of popularly stronger years. The second hidden threat is the unflattering technical condition and the overall wear and tear of some track objects. If I remember my more than 20 years of managerial activity as Dean, Rector and Rector, no minister - and I experienced dozens of them from psychopaths to respectable scientists - he did not send us a significant amount of funds to the university budget, which would be dedicated to repairing or building new buildings that would serve as accommodation for daily listeners. In the future, this threat of poor technical status represents a nightmare of universities in the form of investments in the order of higher tens to hundreds of millions of crowns, which universities do not have. I basically have a very simple question for you. What are the state's existing options to address this situation and help universities? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u108	Thank you. Yes, it will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next is Mr Lukáš Bartoň, once again to the absent Minister Robert Plaga on Rom census. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u109	Dear Minister, I wanted to interpel you on the request of the Ministry of Education for the census of Rom people in schools. I was overtaken by Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková, who has already read your bizarre definition of who Rom is. Among other things, it is that Rom people are considered to be a significant part of their surroundings on the basis of really whose supposed indicators. If I were to bring this up to your government, Minister, if the majority in the government identifies you as Rom, you will be numbered and reported to the Ministry. Minister, do you not think that such a course of action by the Ministry is inappropriate and also undignified? I suspect that this census had some godly purpose, but shouldn't the ministry focus primarily on the integration and promotion of socially disadvantaged pupils regardless of their ethnicity? The Ministry announces calls every year. However, even according to information from the Ministry, it is in some challenges that it is struggling with high financial returns. Does the Ministry have any plans to increase the efficiency of the challenges announced and strengthen support for socially disadvantaged pupils? I will deliver pupils socially disadvantaged regardless of their ethnicity. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u110	Thank you. Yes, it will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next in line is Mrs Barbora Kořánová with an interview with Mrs Jana Maláčová. [[The Member states that her name is Kořanová.]] Koran, I'm sorry, I'm gonna say it right now. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I am asking you about the care allowance that I have been alerted to during my regular visits to the region, namely social service providers. Here's the thing. The Social Services Act in the section devoted to this contribution states that in the case of the third degree of dependence, the social service provider is entitled to a contribution of CZK 9,900, which is CZK 4,000 less than the physical person is entitled to. In the fourth degree, this difference is even 6,000. So I would like to ask you whether you see any significant sense in this difference, because I personally believe that these facilities provide better and more professional care than a person close to you can receive at home. I therefore think that the establishment should be entitled to an allowance of the same amount. I have often been pointed out that, for example, regional installations often manage a deficit that the founder must pay, and this would perhaps significantly help to level up the amount of this contribution. I wonder, then, whether such a change would be effective and whether the Ministry intends to put this idea into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u112	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Secretary Maláčová, I'll read an apology. Minister Maláčová apologizes today from 5:30 p.m. for work reasons. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current legislation is in line with the needs of bodies in the provision of social services. In the availability of assistance for recipients of care allowance in the degree of dependence four, this is a complete dependence, and stage three, a severe dependence, has been logically detected in the past. In view of the above, an increase in the care allowance was made in the degree of dependence of four out of the amount of CZK 13 200 to 19 200 per calendar month for both adults and children who do not benefit from residence services. At the level three, which is the hard addiction, for persons under 18 years of age from 9 900 to 13 900 and for persons over 18 years of age from 8 800 to 12 800 crowns. That legislative amendment aims to strengthen the income of persons who do not benefit from resident social services. This means that the aim is to promote informal and shared care in the natural social environment. It was approved by the Senator's amendment last year, really in order to promote informal care, because given the age of society, we will probably agree that it will not be possible to build a number of residence capacities that meet those needs. At the same time, I think we agree, and it was the will of this House that home care is more desirable for many people, humane and also more dignified. This means that people who want to stay at home and have a person close to them who can take care of them should be allowed to do so. I note, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, that home care is simply much more financially accessible, cheaper than it is in the care of social services. [[16.30 hours]] The care allowance is paid annually to around 358 thousand people, the expenditure for 2018 is CZK 26 billion. The qualified estimate for 2019 amounts to CZK 29,4 billion. I remind you that last year's amendment to the law increased in the fourth stage as of 1 April of this year and in the third stage as of 1 July of this year. And those are the main reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u114	Thank you. There is no interest in any supplementary question, so we will proceed to another interview and this is the interpelation of Mr Vojtěch Munzar to Minister Karel Havlíček on the issue of environmental burden Kladno. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry the Minister has left, he's not here because I want to follow up with my interpellation with my colleague Kovářová. I hope this isn't just an attempt to reply in writing and not directly. I have also learned with great concern that the Minister is proposing to the Government to withdraw back the quarter of a billion crowns that the government allocated two years ago to measures to protect soil waters in Kladno and to protect them from contamination. According to the studies - Thank you, Minister. [[Minister Havlíček enters the hall.]] According to studies, there are up to 170 million cc's of water under Kladno that threatens pollution and degradation. The risk analysis carried out by Kladno in recent years has shown that soil on a parcel of clay contains aggressive poisons, in particular tar, petroleum substances, phenols or chromium. Tens of thousands of tons of earth are polluted on an area of up to 100,000 square metres, and the earth is infested to a depth of about 90 meters. The plan was to stop the water rise in order to avoid contamination, and this plan also went through a commentary procedure before the government was approved. And unfortunately, now you want to stop him from the table and not discuss the self-government. There is a threat of pollution of a significant reservoir of water in a situation where Kladno and Kladno are at risk of the very lack of water in dry years. And you've also confirmed to your colleague here that such contamination may occur. Your previous statement, Minister, seems to me to be inadequate because I lack the plan for what to do with it. At the same time, the solution of old mining loads and old mining activities is within the competence of your resort. The mere cut-off of the resources earmarked and the non-starting of measures to protect groundwater is, in itself, very irresponsible and risky. I see an effort to get this money for something else and also an effort to transfer responsibility to another resort. So I hope that you will comment on this, and in particular you will answer the question of what alternative and conceptual solutions you have prepared for this matter. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u116	Before I give my word to the Minister, I shall read the apology of the Member. Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes today from 16.30 pm to the end of the day for health and family reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u117	Mr President, honourable Member, it is once again terribly misleading, what you have said. I don't want to nigger you all the time, but if there was any study going on, something that could theoretically occur, and then detailed studies were done that didn't confirm the concern, that is, once again, I will read it exactly: It was found that mining water pollution could theoretically occur in a few decades, and that is only - and perhaps even more importantly - in trace amounts. So at this point, the allocated funds, this isn't about the funds at all, I don't know why we're still putting together 250 million. We're playing for purpose here, because the funds were clearly intended for the 150 million and 100 million pumping wells at the mining water treatment plant. That's not necessary at the moment. Not necessary, but that's not gonna happen. But it is not excluded that something else will be done, so that even the future possible, even the theoretical situation, to avoid it, and from that it has to be done again to the government and it has to be said how these resources are assigned purposefully. That's all it is. And in a way, it doesn't matter if it's the MIT or the Ministry of the Environment. We agree, it will be the one to whom it belongs. That means, if they stay with us or switch to the Ministry, it's not a waiver of responsibility, it's just who it belongs to institutionally. I don't want to repeat everything I said just now. We've offered to go there, we've offered to talk about it with all the concerned subjects, that's no problem. But we can't make an account without an innkeeper, because it's only going to go to the government now, and the government is going to have to change only the funds that they are, and they have to say what they're going to do and how they're going to be used. And they are used to avoid any - even theoretical - danger there would be. But given that it's different from what was forecasted, because it was all premeditated, we just can't do it at this point. That would be a useless draw, and that would be a big problem. So it's nothing but technology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u118	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u119	Yes, Minister, thank you for your answer. However, first of all, I think you're saying that it's not a problem to go to Kladno and get to know the situation on the spot. I think this was supposed to be done before the D.O.D. decided to propose this money for download. The second thing is that the state has, of course, never significantly supported the removal of environmental burdens, such as in Kladno, and the solution to the water problems and so on. And I think that if the city of Kladno has done a risk analysis, it's probably hard to question its conclusions, which you actually do in other words. So again, I want to ask you what your alternative is. Because you're here in the first speech, the opening speech said there might be contamination. And I have great doubts that the contamination can only be traceable if there are poisons in the soil that are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u120	Thank you. Is the Minister interested in an answer? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u121	That's what we do all the time. It's not like we're not going. Of course they do. I said we could go there, not to find out the condition, you know very well that our people were there, were and were driving, but that we could go there now to discuss it and explain in detail what else there might be, even theoretical, danger and what will be done with it. That's different than finding out what's going on. That's what you put together the pears with the apples. And as far as potential contamination is concerned, I will read it once more:... could occur in a few decades and only in trace amounts. I don't know where you read that I said it could be contaminated. I tried to read it clearly in this. Now we can talk about whether the state supports environmental damage or not. See what the DIAMO is doing, see what the P.O.D.U. is doing, see what the SÚRAO is doing. There's a huge amount of stuff going on, but it has to be proven that there's a threat. If it's proven, of course it'll be done. But I think we're only about one thing now. Let us not politicize because this has nothing to do with politics. Let's stick to the things that can happen today. And if there's any danger there, like that doesn't happen today, then of course it has to be dealt with. And the resources will do it. But it must be precisely tied resources for what will be done there. And we'd be happy to come and see you, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u122	Thank you, Minister. We will proceed to another interview, which is the interpellation of Mr Marek Výborný to the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová on the abolition of the territorial workplaces of the financial authorities. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u123	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, allow me to ask you to explain the intention of the Financial Administration to optimize the local offices of the Financial Office in Hlinsk, so that the current agenda of this office is to be abolished and made up of this office from 1 January 2020 only a mailroom which is to operate only on official days, i.e. two days a week. What is leading to such a move, and what does the Financial Administration expect from this? According to your government's programming statement, it is one of the priorities to support rural business in order to preserve rural business and services and versatile rural development and to support the employment of workers in small or underdeveloped municipalities and regions. However, the intended optimization appears to be a completely opposite step. On the contrary, there will be a further weakening of the functioning of the countryside, a delaying of the state administration from citizens living outside large cities, as well as from a more educated layer of population. It is another step of this government leading to the centralisation of state administration, precisely against the interests and needs of citizens of particularly remote regions, to which Hlinecko clearly belongs. I note that similar measures are also taking place in Litomyšl, Holice, Moravian Trebs and other 33 cities in our country. I fear that the upcoming steps of optimization will not bring the expected savings and will only result in a deterioration in the efficiency of the functioning of the financial office itself. This whole step seems completely unconceptionable to me. Madam Secretary, are you ready to correct this measure, which is contrary to your government's government statement and the interests of citizens in particular of these remote regions? Thank you for your written answer. And I would rather, if, before the answer comes, a measure is implemented to correct these proposals by the Financial Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u124	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next in line is Mrs Věra Procházková with an interview to Minister Robert Plaga on non-payment of wages for sports organisations applying for the grant title My Club. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u125	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister, as chair of the Sub-Committee on Sport, I will read only one piece of information here as a concrete proof of what I say, with which the Mayor of Beauty from our region addressed me, namely on 24. 9. 2019. Budo club Aš, registered club. Date of application - until 31. 10. 2018. Formal evaluation of the application - 12. 7. 2019: Compliance with the MŠMT methodology. Current status according to information from MŠMT - Mrs Beranová, the application is for a preliminary check when the decision is made. The bill is due until 15. 2. 2020 but until 31. 12. 2019 will have to return any unused funds. The municipality had to help the club out of a critical situation so they wouldn't get into debt. There have been and many others in this situation, despite the promises that this year will be better. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u126	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mr Vít Rakušan with an interview with Minister Vladimír Kremlík on tariffs in regional rail transport. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u127	Hello. Thank you for your word. Mr President, Minister present, I would like to ask one question, which is based directly on the initiative that I have collected at my own office in the region and concerns new tariffs in regional rail transport. As we know, the regional authorities are currently ordering regional connections and there is a certain concern that chaos will indeed occur. We already know that train tickets within the regions cannot, for example, be purchased in e-shops of České dráhy, they will not even be in case of some connections ordered by the region - and I am not talking about a particular region right now, because each region has negotiated a little different conditions - they will not pay you in some regions of České dráhy loyalty cards and will not even be recognized in some connections or overhead tickets. These are personal and express trains, and the new rules simply result from individual contracts in the 14 regions that have been signed by individual regions. I really think there might be real chaos here. The biggest changes according to my information will occur in the South Moravian Region, the smallest from the point of view of passengers allegedly in the Liberec Region. They also go to the brutal contracts in Ústecký, Zlinský and Olomouc Region. My question is simple whether the Ministry of Transport has any ambition and the opportunity to do something about the situation that is really in danger of chaos, whether you as the Minister of Transport have any ambition to engage in the matter and coordinate the matter within the regions and whether any general negotiations will be convened with regional representatives who are responsible in the given regions for transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u128	I thank you for keeping the time precise, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u129	Thank you. Dear Member, honourable Members, honourable Members, the public, yes, I also see this situation, and I am certainly not indifferent to the Minister of Transport or as a citizen. It is a fact that there will be a significant change in passenger handling in some regions since the beginning of the 2019/2020 timetable, i.e. from 15 December this year. But I have one thing to say. I must remind you that the regionalisation of public transport took place in 2005. The competence to provide transport services at regional level has been transferred from the State to the autonomous competence of the regions. At present, the Ministry of Transport is responsible for ordering over-regional transport, while regional trains are primarily passenger and express trains, ordering individual regions. This means that the regions set quality parameters in these transport services and can also decide to a certain extent on the tariffs applied on regional trains within the limits given by the State's pricing regulation. According to the information provided by the Czech Association of Public Transport Organizers, there will be changes in four regions in December, and you mentioned them, honourable Member through Mr President. These were newly concluded with the Czech Railways as well as with other carriers of the so-called brutal contract. In these contracts, the risks and opportunities associated with the development of revenues are borne directly by the region, not by the carrier. It is already mentioned region Jihomoravský, Ústecký, Zlinský and Olomoucký. Even abroad, it is quite common that only the tariff set by the client applies to transport services. For example, within a number of regions of Germany or Austria, it is common to use rail exclusively within the region, or significantly prefer the tariff of the local transport union, similar to the Czech integrated transport system, IDS. If the Ministry of Transport is known, for all regions, the carrier's tariff will be recognised for crossing the region's borders, so if the passenger goes from Prague or Pardubice to Kouty nad Desnou in Olomouc region, then he will be able to get a direct ticket. In the case of trains of České dráhy, the possibility of buying one travel document between all tariff points of this carrier remains unaffected if the passenger crosses the border of the region. However, it should be pointed out that part of the performance of both long-distance and regional rail transport is already provided by other carriers, with passengers using multiple carriers mainly using integrated system travel documents, possibly individual carrier travel documents separately for sections secured by these carriers. This outlined condition is only temporary, because following the amendment of the Railway Act approved by the Chamber of Deputies in September of this year, if you all remember this, we are preparing a so-called single tariff system for the railway transport sector. Already during 2020, passengers will be able to purchase one travel document valid between all tariff points of the Czech railway network regardless of the use of the carrier. However, as I see the area of regional transport as problematic, I asked the authorities last week to send information on the upcoming changes to the requirements for the scope and quality of public services in rail transport. It's a letter I have here, I can give it to you, honourable Member, from October 11, 2019. Further to the information provided, I want to establish closer cooperation with the regions, so that the emerging conditions for providing regional transport services do not have a negative effect on the functioning of public transport between the different regions, namely in the Czech Republic. It is in the interest of all of us to enable passengers to use rail transport services without major problems next year. Dear Member, I would like to assure you that my Deputy Mr Ing is very careful about this agenda. Ladislav Němec, who in this context prepares the documents for possible negotiations with the regions, which we would call upon based on the answers of the regions. I asked the county for a polite response by 31. 10. 2019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u130	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u131	I want to thank the Minister for the information, but I've only got an amendment. I really do not dispute that regional transport is partly within the competence of the regions. I even think it's systemically correct. Why should self-government not be able to order the transport they need for their citizens? We also know that the Ministry itself is responsible for the trans-regional, not regional transport, that is all clear. I even realize that there are private carriers operating their train lines under different conditions. But we're talking about the services of the Czech Railways, and this is where the Ministry of Transport should have the ambition of coordination. If we are growing up in a phase where we cannot order, when ordering a given transport connection by the region, for example, a ticket in the e-shop of České dráhy, I think that the ambition of the Ministry, the Minister and the Deputy Ministers should simply help to ensure that the system comfort for passengers in the case of the state carrier to which the Czech Railways are is guaranteed even when the connection is ordered by individual self-governing units. I really can't argue that the Ministry should be responsible for these regional connections. [[Time warning]] No way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u132	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u133	Thank you. Just a quick reaction. As I mentioned here, in the case of trains of České dráhy, the possibility of buying one travel document between all tariff points of this carrier remains unaffected in the case of passengers crossing the border of the region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u134	Thank you. The next in line is Mr. Petr Bendl, with an interview with Minister Richard Brabec on the Grand Headed Beach. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u135	Mr President, Minister, colleagues. Minister, the bark beetle has already destroyed more than 500,000 hectares of forests in the Czech Republic and it is not all over. It mainly attacks conifers, especially spruce vegetation. At the last meeting of the agricultural committee, we were confronted with the situation caused by the large-headed beaver, which, according to forest managers, has already attacked about 10,000 hectares of deciduous forest this time because it attacks beech and oak in particular. If we are unable to intervene effectively, we can look forward to similar calamitys as they are at the level we are facing today. Therefore, I want to ask you whether the Ministry of the Environment is ready in cooperation with forest managers or owners to help the most affected locations to intervene. Because if we just look at the situation, we're definitely not going to be on the 10,000 acres of deciduous vegetation this time, but the situation is going to be many times worse every year. The sooner we intervene, the less damage there will be. I beg you, as Minister of the Environment in the most affected locations, to assist in resolving the situation, and to encourage your controlled organisations to stop the disaster before it does the same damage as the bark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u136	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Member, you are right that once again not only in South Moravia, but also in some localities in Bohemia, in connection with weather change, climate change, let us call it anything, but in any case, due to several warm and dry years, there is an increase in the number of populations of the beggar. We here in Bohemia probably have an unfortunate experience in the history of the monastery, but the fact is that the bigheaded beach has already done quite a lot of damage here in the 1990s and then in Znojmo even in 2017 to a lesser extent, where it has affected dozens of hectares of young oaks. And the truth is that in 2017 the solution to the situation helped that it was then attacked by viral disease itself, which significantly reduced the population. So, about that, I admit, that such a major assault by a large-headed bull is in the range of thousands of acres, I know from the very last time, the information hasn't come to me. And I will just point out that we are certainly ready to negotiate, but of course it has appeared as the only possible solution to surface aerial spray insecticides. But it is, and you know that, forbidden under plant health law, it is possible to opt out. And of course it is, and it needs to be said, highly risky in terms of protecting the interests of nature, because it is nonselective and naturally has a major impact on the functioning of the forest ecosystem as a whole and on individual components. At the moment when the eggs are laid on those trunks, of course there are also some possible selective measures available, and we know that in the past - and we are discussing this with the Ministry of Agriculture - the possibility of biological protection, i.e. the use of spray with a viral preparation, which could significantly reduce the population, as it happened in 2017, if this method had no adverse effects on non-target organisms. All of these possibilities are currently under discussion. You know that we are trying with all our strength to restore the forests, to restore the diversity of the structure, and that it is clear to us that when we are losing coniferous trees on one side, it is all the more necessary to plant the deciduous trees. That is why we will try to find a solution, but on the other hand, it will not mean any total genocide of other organisms in this very unselective way. We are currently discussing with the Ministry of Agriculture and other organisations how to deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u138	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question, so I give him my word. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u139	Well, she'll be the decisive speed. Because if we keep it for a long time, we're really just gonna watch it. I understand that if there is any spray, it can damage or take with it some other species of bugs, etc. But the moment it's 10,000 acres in order, which is not enough, the moment that the forest dies, we're gonna lose the bugs anyway. So I would ask you to, if possible, see to it that we don't wait, because that's the smaller intervention it's going to be, the more efficient it will be, the less we'll have to either look at it like we're looking at spruce that don't exist anymore, because we're not nearly at the end of the crusty calamity yet. I'm begging you so much for the speed. I suggested at the House meeting to deal with it, you weren't here, we didn't pressure it in the end. However, I still think the House should take care of it someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u140	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u141	I'll just respond. I'm sure I want to take a look at it in person, in scope, and get to know all the possibilities of action. And I'm sure that speed is a factor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u142	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Karla Maříková, with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček on the construction of new nuclear blocks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dukovany and Temelín will produce less than a third of Czech electricity today. In 2040 it's supposed to be more than half. To achieve this goal, it is necessary to expand the Dukovany nuclear power plant, which most likely serves in 2035. In a recent interview with you, I read that Temelín must be expanded as well. The previous efforts of the state controlled ČEZ Group to build two new reactors at the Temelín nuclear power plant failed. The tender was cancelled in 2014. I would be interested, Minister, in what ways your ministry, virtually. The government is now searching for new reactors for construction purposes. You said that we were going to have a discussion over the next five years about further expansion of the core, but Dukovany, as I mentioned, will serve as early as 2035. So you really think we have five years to discuss? Is it worth building in the Czech Republic any resource at all, not just nuclear? Will he even have an economic return? And what is the estimated price of the Dukovan and Temelín expansion? [[17,00 hours]] The Prime Minister said that the Czech Republic must enforce the construction of new nuclear blocks, even if it is to violate the Czech Republic's European law. I wonder what that means to us, if it's any sanctions, fines, if it's really worth it. If it wouldn't be worth betting on gas plants that come out much cheaper, they're safer, and they're also making cheaper costs per unit of electricity produced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u144	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u145	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the question. I think this is a very important discussion. I'll take it one step at a time. We come from the current energy mix, when almost half, 45 percent, is in coal. If we want to decarbonize, which I think we can agree on, because it's general pressure, we need to replace these resources. You correctly said the share of the current nuclear power plants in Dukovan and Temelín. Then maybe what I said in the media was a little misunderstood, which, of course, I'm going to explain. What's going on? At this point, not that we're going to have five years to discuss whether there's going to be another enlargement, that was meant in the media in the sense of Temelín. At the moment, there is a clear path for building block number 5 in Dukovany. With the government resolution being prepared at the beginning of July, the EIA took place at the end of August, at this time we are finalizing the agreement with ČEZ, where the so-called agreement is negotiated. investment model and supply model. At the same time, we are already starting to go to Europe, so I mean to Brussels, where all the parameters are being negotiated. In the second half of November, there will be very high negotiations at European Union level and we want to have the documentation for notification, which is an essential act prepared at the beginning of next year. The next year should be notified and it would be good to manage next year in the timetable and to open a tender in 2021. "It has begun" means that it must be started by whoever invests, which is assumed, and in those investment models it is, by a subsidiary of ČEZ. It will be the fifth block in Dukovany, which is 1,200 MW. Which is assumed, and this is another part of your question, that it will extend the lifetime of the existing four blocks, one, two, three, four, which can be technologically managed without any major problems until 2045 to 2048. That means that actually by 2045 to 2048 we could have the power of the existing four blocks plus the new one after the five arrive in Dukovany. The current four blocks are 2,000 MW in total, and the new one is 1,200, so we would have 3,200. Unfortunately, that's all we're gonna put in Dukovan for cooling. Which would solve the Dukovany. But the truth is that by 2045-2048, the original four blocks will arrive, and that's exactly what I said. Because if we want to pull coal down, I don't want to say absolute zero from 43 percent, but 10 percent, 15 %, 5 percent, depending on how we do it, it will mean replacing at least a third of the resources with a new source. And that, of course, won't be enough just that 1 200-megawatt block in Dukovany. Although it is true that as the old ones arrive, then of course there can be renewed for others and more or less the original performance, but we will have no choice but to start seriously discussing the expansion of Temelín, where there are all the prerequisites and possibilities. With this being what I said, it is necessary to start a discussion in the next five years, like Dukovan's expansion, and Temelín's enlargement. But it doesn't change the fact that the process, including the timetable, is already under way to handle Dukovany. You can still argue that we can also strengthen other energy sources, which we do, of course, and we even have to, because even this Temelín couldn't tighten it up even if two more blocks were built beautifully. That is why we are strengthening renewable resources. The share of renewables today is 14.5 percent. We have now sent 22 percent of our commitment to Europe by 2030, and I can imagine, and now don't exactly grab me at the word that in 2040 to 2050, these are the incriminating years when we're done with Dukovany, we could move up to 30 percent. Basically, we could say that plus minus around 2045 could be 80 percent of the resources almost emission-free, which is the core and renewable resources. Now to the gas. Gas sounds nice, but watch out for two things. One thing, firstly, is the capacity of the pipes, but let us admit that this can be built within one generation of course. The second thing is addiction. Because having its own source of energy as nuclear or renewable resources means energy independence, self-sufficiency and, of course, a completely different position of the Czech Republic for any negotiation. And that has a whole series of conventions, let's say, political. Another thing is that the gas is not emission-free and we are pushing the European Commission very hard today to reduce it strongly. And the gas is simply not ideal from this point of view. In any case, however, the gas will also be strengthened, but not on those numbers, as I said here, for example, about the nucleus or renewable sources. Just so you know, today the gas is moving to 6-7 percent, and I can imagine that by the time we do, we're going to have to move to 15 percent. [[Attention on time.]] Then we have to say, Russian or American addiction is better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u146	I'm sorry, I've read into something here, so I thank the lady on the right that she's alerted me that the time has passed, and I'm going to ask the lady for an additional question. [[Adam's Pekars]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u147	Thank you, Mr President, thank you for starting, and the Minister has had more time to answer my question. You mentioned here that we're going to have to download coal. The Czech Republic is faced with a decision to close part of coal power plants that do not meet the European Union's environmental objectives. At the latest, I suspect it will be in August 2021. This will require all major sources of electricity to meet the limits of mercury, dust, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen emissions. During the period when coal power plants are closed, electricity exports are likely to decline to zero. We'll probably even have to import it. At present, the Czech Republic exports almost a fifth of electricity produced. How do we complete the missing capacity?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u148	There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u149	It's not gonna happen right away, there's gonna be a certain time zone around the year you said, 2023 until someday 2030. Until then, we will first strengthen renewable resources. And for another, the decline in the coal, if I were to put it numerically, is approximately the following: Today we are mining approximately 40 million brown coal, in 2024 the ČSA mine, which is in order about 4-5 million. [[tons?]] In the meantime, we'll close another one and we'll be moving from 2030 plus minus about 30 million. I mean, there's not gonna be a fatal deficiency yet. Yes, there will be a big discussion about how owners will stand up to two important power plants, which are Počerady, which are Chvaletice. It doesn't even matter who owns them, like the parameters of the state to make them work at all or not. Because whether it will be owned by Group A or by Company B is one thing, but the other is what the state sets the parameters for, for example, the Počerads to work or not, or to meet environmental criteria. However, we will have a more precise timetable in the coal by the end of the year. This is why the coal commission was created, which actually brings together all the parameters. Of course, we can't afford to shut down the power plants today, so-called. reduced coal rapidly and at the same time had no capacity. Because the problem will occur throughout Europe from around 2020, 2025, and especially as a result of Germany's energy concept, which has fundamentally changed everything. It means it shuts down the core and simultaneously reduces coal. And we already have, coincidentally, we're going to present it now on Monday, a map of Europe, what the surplus looks like, or lack of electricity, and it's a miserable situation. The situation is very serious and in a simple way, it will not come from. [[Attention on time.]] That means if we don't build this core and we don't have other resources, then we're gonna have a problem because it won't -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u150	Thank you. I know this is a subject that could take a lot more time, but unfortunately, we must stick to the Rules of Procedure. So next in line is Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová to Minister Karel Havlíček in the matter Call for OP PIK "Real estate - Tourism". Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u151	Thank you for the floor. I'd be stealing my time, that's why I'm keeping an eye on it. So, Minister, we often hear that money from European Union subsidies is being used for stupidity. This is particularly said by politicians who want to provoke hatred of the European Union. Unfortunately, subsidies really happen to go where they don't. [[17.10 hours]] However, it is important to add that the Czech Republic is responsible for this, and a typical example, in my opinion, is the subsidy challenge of Real estate, tourism within the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. What do Pec under Sněžka, Špindlerův Mlyn or Modrava have in common? They are already widely sought-after tourist communities and are also included in this subsidy challenge. If an entrepreneur wishes to build or reconstruct a hotel in one of these municipalities, he may request a subsidy in this invitation. On the contrary, municipalities such as Rokytnice nad Jizerou, Malá Bystřice and hundreds of others ignore this challenge. Does that seem okay to you? In particular, OP PIK is intended to promote innovation. Do you really consider building a hotel in the most sought-after tourist locations as innovation? The list of municipalities in which entrepreneurs can draw subsidies was drawn up on the basis of a nearly ten-year-old study. By the way, the OP PIK Fund itself is no longer being paid out of the budget of the European Union and is in difficulty after the Commission has suspended it. Nevertheless, the programme continues to work. There can therefore be a situation where the 114 billion crowns to be split under this operational programme will be paid to Czech taxpayers. I ask you to explain why the division of 600 million crowns in this subsidy challenge is governed by almost ten years old and thus by non-current studies. Can you please document this study? Why were the 57 municipalities chosen, of which I have named three, but are there many others that are already crowded by tourists and tourism in them is fully developed? And why, on the contrary, were not communities that needed support in developing tourism? After all, subsidies are designed to compensate for inequalities and not increase them. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u152	Thank you. Madam, you see how generous I am, 20 seconds I gave you for warning me in time. [[Cheer up in the hall.]] Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u153	Mr President, Madam President, honourable Members, first of all, good news. I'm very happy because I just got a text saying that this afternoon, the money that was withheld was unblocked, the 18 billion crowns, based on the fact that we were now quite responsible for three or four months of supporting everything. There was no mistake, it's done. So I'm really happy that we're not gonna miss anything at this point. Now it's just a question of when they're gonna send us the money, but maybe we can do that pretty fast. So that's the first problem down. As for the total sum of the 113 billion, yes, that's true, it goes through the OP PIK. This was sometimes approved many years ago, as the calls were gradually written by priority axes, which were set by the European Commission from a certain point of view. That would probably be a long discussion right now to say what, why and how it was conceived at the time. But I partly agree with you. What you're saying in the travel business. That I would be very excited about the fact that 600 million crowns will be given in general - but now I don't care if it's the town of A or the town of B, I really can't judge it, it was done by some screening, it was some feedback with all the institutions concerned in terms of nonprofits, associations, associations. That's actually even written here, so I don't think there's anything anyone would want to damage or do. That went quite seriously. But I'm a little principled, I admit it, it's just that money is going to be put in this direction. It is true, and this, in turn, must be taken into account that the towns or municipalities were chosen according to not what tourism is, but how many inhabitants there are, the permanent population, if they are going to the city, so not. Because the goal was just at the time, I don't want to defend it right now, but at that time, the goal was just to fight the tides of those people into larger cities and create some kind of tool to keep them there. I don't want to make excuses here, I've got a few dozen minutes, your question, but in any case, I can promise you that I'm going to look into it now, I'm going to take all the cities that are there, and we're going to essentially think about whether - even if it's not the 100 billion that's quite a decisive amount, the 600 million - if it makes sense whether we're going this way or if we're not going to re-allocate it to something else, because between us, he's not really interested in it. So far we've got it, if I have it right here, written four specific requests, so it's not exactly a hit parade. So I'd be happy to keep you informed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u154	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u155	I would like to thank you for this, and I would also like to remind you that I also asked for the study, which therefore decided that it would be these 57 municipalities of the more than 6,000 municipalities that we have in the Czech Republic, that there was therefore a criterion for municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants, if I am not mistaken, and I would really like to show to the public that, at a time when something is really absurdly set up, we can face it and we can possibly cancel it and put the money on the contrary where it would help a lot better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u156	Thank you. We will proceed to another interpelation and that is the interpellation of Mr Dominik Feri to Minister Jana Maláčová in the DPP case. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u157	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, thank you for being here. I've been meaning to speak to you twice. More than a year ago, we presented a draft, which regulates the limit of contributions for labour agreements, increasing from 10,000 to 11,500. Representatives from seven MPs, including the ČSSD MP, are signed there. That thing hasn't been discussed in that year. I know it was before you took office, which is why I would like to ask you how you view this matter. I don't need to mention that the 10,000 threshold has been anchored there for seven years. We have, of course, since then, to calculate inflation, the price level has changed. At the same time, the average wage has increased, and the minimum wage has increased, and this line remains constant, and this actually makes it harder or more tax burden, and the agreement to carry out the work cannot become sufficiently attractive for the performance of the employment relationship. So I'm wondering if you agree to increase the amount. If so, at what level, and possibly, if you would also support the establishment of an, say, automatic valorisation mechanism, so that we do not have to deal with it repeatedly in the future, and it was set in a predictable and systemic manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u158	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic employment relations include employment, an agreement on work activities and an agreement on the implementation of work. According to the Labour Code, the employer is to ensure that his duties are carried out primarily by employees in employment. A work agreement may be concluded where the envisaged scope of work or the task to which the agreement is concluded is not higher than 300 hours per calendar year. Where an employer enters into more than one such agreement with the same natural person in a calendar year, the scope of the work shall be added up and shall not exceed 300 hours. The intention of your Membership's bill is to increase the threshold for participation in sickness insurance for employees active under the agreement to carry out work from 10,000 to 11,500. The MPSV proposed to take a disagreeable position on the proposal in particular for the following reasons: In general, the limit for employee participation in sickness insurance is CZK 2,500. Since 2019 it has been increased to CZK 3,000 according to the rules. This threshold is therefore that the administrative burden of carrying out insurance would not be adequate for the lower income of calculated benefits. Only for employees under agreement, the DPP, is the border higher due to the specific nature of this institute and the fact that this agreement is not a long-term source of income. For social insurance purposes, however, there is no reason to increase this threshold in kind, thus excluding a given group of employees from sickness and consequently pension insurance or making it difficult for them to take part in such insurance in particular calendar months, which may, in particular, endanger their future pension rights for workers who have income from more such parallel agreements. So the proposal is counterproductive from this point of view. The implementation of the proposal would result in a negative impact not only on the state budget but also on public health insurance revenues. Another reason is that the proposal is not linked to the Income Tax Act, where the limit of CZK 10,000 is maintained for the so-called withholding tax, which would cause unnecessary administrative difficulties in practice. [[17.20 hours]] At the same time, I would like to point out that in the next two weeks, the Government will approve an amendment to the Labour Code, agreed not only by the coalition but also by all four social partners. We have a firm gentleman's agreement that, for those things on which there is agreement between tripartite and coalition, which is to be changed conceptually in the Labour Code after eight years, this act is not here. At the same time, I remind you that in the so-called Gentlemen's Agreement, we have committed ourselves to the fact that no further amendments will be accepted in this House when the amendment to the Labour Code is discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u160	Thank you. I see that there is no interest in the supplementary question, so we will proceed to another interpellation, which is the interpellation of Mrs Olga Richterová to Minister Marie Benešová on the matter of placing newborns by decision of the court outside of individual care. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u161	Hello, Madam Secretary, dear fellow Members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues present. I would like to address the subject of children who have a hard enough start in life in this interview. Lately, there have been quite a lot of clear statements from experts about how especially little children need to have their arms. I wonder, because of course I know that the courts are independent, how they want this opportunity for children to have their arms, the Ministry of Justice. I'm wondering if maybe you're planning to strengthen the Justice Academy and focus on the issue of care. The point is that I'm being encouraged, for example, by the OSPODs, that even contrary to their proposal for a child to go into foster care, if his parents can't take care of him so that he can have one person to himself, so that by decision of the court, children are placed in, for example, a nursing home. And precisely because the consequences can then be lifelong and very serious, so in the moments when foster parents are available, it is a shame not to use them. Similarly, there are conflicting situations in the regions with regard to entrusting carefully selected adopters to the so-called interim measures. Somewhere it is possible, future adopters can have a child very quickly to prevent the damage, and elsewhere it takes a long time and the custody courts write the proceedings in the order of months. So I'm wondering if you're following it statistically. Whether you spread the good practice from the regions where the courts work quickly. And let me conclude by pointing out: the time runs much faster for young children, and every day longer in institutional care is a great shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u162	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course we are following these issues statistically as well. In order to bring you to the start of the problem here, I must say that although we have a budget of less than 10 per cent, it will not touch almost at all the Academy of Justice, where we consider it important that the education for judges in the case of family public law and guardian judges should run. In particular, there are specialised seminars covering this issue and sharing experience in the implementation of various co-operations in custody matters. Here, I can assure you that this educational event will continue and that it will not be restricted. When it comes to confiding children into institutional care or foster care, it is probably necessary to make it clear that each court considers it according to its individual conviction, and we cannot force a judge to have a template for it. The view of judges in these matters is diverse because each region has a different availability of foster parents. In any case, the conditions are assessed individually, so even if a foster family has seven children in their care, it is not desirable to entrust about another child. It also depends on the child's age, as foster parents often have specific requirements. There are a lot of aspects that judges follow when assessing this issue. In this respect, the Academy of Justice does not stand up for any specific alternative to advising them, leaving the assessment actually to them. If you asked about statistics, they can be found from the annual reports of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which takes care of the social and legal protection of children in relation to infant formulas, as well as from the Ministry of Health. In our country you can find, for example, the number of children in foster care, the number of other children in institutional care. I have here, for example, how our officials prepared for me statistics from 2014, when the number of children with ordered constitutional upbringing was a total of 6 505 and in 2018 already 1 612, so we are a little down. Thus, the decline in the use of institutional education in favour of individual education is somewhat noticeable. In 2018, for example, 455 children from 13 to 15 years of age, 453 children over 15 years of age and 892 in other cases were ordered. So if you wish for any special statistics, I can deliver it at your individual request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u164	Thank you. The Member is not interested - she is interested. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u165	Thank you so much for your answer. I would really be interested in the statistics, and that's a completely different one. Because of the actual number of children they are stationed in, of course I know. But the point is that actually today is a very different practice in different regions. It's really about the adoption options. So I would ask you if you're watching how long the driving actually takes, how long before the child gets to those carefully selected adopters. I'll e-mail it back. It is really about the judicial decisions and the possibility of the use of interim measures. And the second thing is to follow the proposals of the OSPOD. Of course, I am aware that there are different capacity options in the regions, but the OSPODs usually take this into account when they propose what type of care they recommend. [[Attention on time.]] And if you're watching when there's a contradiction with the OSPOD proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u166	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u167	If the lady wants to give me the data she will be interested in. We also monitor the OSPOD, we have statistics there, so just connect by e-mail and I'll prepare it for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u168	Thank you. Before I give the next word, I will read the apologies: Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes for working reasons today from 16.30 to the end of the day and Mr Jan Schiller today between 17.30 and 21.00 for working reasons. The next in line is Mr.František Navrkal with an interview with Minister Adam Vojtěch on the issue of illegal noise from Autodrom Most. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u169	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Vojtěch, for five years, several thousand residents living in Autodrom Most have been exposed to a huge amount of noise that destroys their physical and mental health. Try calling one of them yourself on a weekday between 9:00 and 18:00. You will probably get the opportunity to hear with your own ears what the locals have to deal with every day. The Regional Hygiene Administration has repeatedly established a significant overrun of the legally permitted noise limit, yet the plant operator has not abandoned its behaviour. The fine of CZK 250,000 against the fine is appealed and the whole thing extends. The locals must thus continue to suffer suffering from the operator of the sports grounds, which ignores the negative consequences of their actions on their health and mental state. Unfortunately, they do not get their defenses even from bridge representatives from the Association of Mostecans Most and the ANO movement, for which the continuation of cooperation with the autodrome is obviously more important than the health of citizens or respect for the law and city decrees. [[17.30 hours]] Dear Minister, we are witnessing that there is a clear and continuous violation of the law and the destruction of the health of citizens. So I want to ask you first: do you think the competent authorities are taking sufficient initiative and quick action in the interests of the population? Secondly, what are you yourself going to do about this? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u170	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer and ask for peace in the Chamber. I know you have a need to comment on some of the issues, but please comment on them in the lobby, not here in the courtroom. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this interview. It should be recalled that Autodrom Most was built as part of the reclamation of land after mining activities at the turn of the 1970s and 1980s. The current owner began with the economic operation of the autodrom, which is its intensity incomparable with the previous operation. The circuit is rented for private events, trainings and, of course, increased the intensity of organizing sports businesses. There's basically everyday traffic on the circuit. About history. In the 1990s a noise-resistant wall was built on the western edge of the autodrome towards the original construction. Since its construction, no noise complaints have been recorded by the then district health station and therefore no noise measurements have been made on the basis of complaints at that time. Despite the opposition of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Ústecký Region, the city of Most has designated the land in the surroundings of the autodrome as suitable for residential construction. This means that we must also be aware of who is responsible. On further change of the zoning plan in February 2017, the city considers areas in the vicinity of the autodrome as locations intended for housing even though the document explicitly states that the area is affected by noise from the autodrome. The first complaint about the noise from the autodrom operation was submitted by the Regional Hygiene Station by the City of Most in May 2013. The noise measurement has detected a sublime sound pressure value for a daily period of 41.9 dB. The autodrom represents a stationary noise source and the sanitary limit is set at 50 dB. The incentives to address noise from the autodrom operation began to multiply in 2015. The noise measurement has shown an excess sound pressure value for the daily period, i.e. 67 dB and 56,9 dB. Based on this measurement, the autodrome was imposed by the regional sanitation station a fine of CZK 50,000, which was paid for. In 2016, the above-limit sound pressure value for the daily period, i.e. 60,7 dB and 58 dB, was determined by measurements at the same locations. In this case, however, the autodrom used all the rights which enable it to be legal system of the Czech Republic, objected to the protocol from the measurement and also to the protocol from the control, and at the same time objected to the prejudice of the controlling person and all other employees of the territorial workplace Most of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Ústecký Region. Similarly, it did so in rejecting the request for the issue of a temporary authorisation for the operation of the noise source. The new application of the autodrome was rejected by the Regional Hygiene Station in August 2019 again - in August 2019. The appeal procedure is currently under way. The Regional Hygiene Station as an authority of the state administration is proceeding in accordance with the legal order of the Czech Republic. The Autodrom Most fully exploits all the possibilities that the legal order of the Czech Republic allows him, such as the filing of contradictions, objections, appeals. Of course, these facts also help to extend administrative procedures disproportionately, and from the perspective of the surrounding population, the regional sanitation station is considered inactive. However, it is necessary to take into account the legislation as set out. In conclusion, however, let me remind you, and I spoke about it at the beginning, that despite the disagreement of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Ústecký Region, Most considers the land around the autodrome to be suitable for residential construction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u172	Thank you. I'll ask if there's any interest in an additional question. Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u173	Thank you for the floor. My supplementary question will be very short. It's just that when you've been talking here for a long time, I understand that the city has repeatedly doubted the issue, and I've also mentioned the mistakes. But my question is, if the problem is that the autodrome is using some obstructive tactics in administrative proceedings, then I would like to know, if you are leading the case in a clear way, if you have discussed in any way in the government whether the legislative regulation of administrative proceedings is okay and if it is not some systematic problem that maybe has parallels elsewhere in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u174	Thank you. The Minister is interested in an answer, so he will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u175	Thank you for the floor. It's out of my jurisdiction, of course. I'm sure we can discuss this with the Minister of Justice. But in this way, the rule of law is really set up, giving the parties the opportunity to defend themselves, and this society uses those possibilities. Once she has paid the fine, and then she simply objects and tries to defend herself in some way in this regard, because she stands up for the fact that the law does not in any way violate its activities. I personally went to the driveway to see it, so I saw it. Of course, their arguments are that they are going to take some other anti-noise measures, but they are trying not to interfere with the environment. But as I say, we as the ministry, virtually. The regional sanitation station took all measures, measured the noise, noted the violation of the law. And there is an appeal procedure in this regard. I believe we will come to a conclusion sometime soon. And then, of course, it needs to be realized that there is still an administrative action institute that we can't erase, which means, even if the administrative proceedings go to some stage, I assume that the company will file an administrative action, and then we'll have to wait for an independent court to decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u176	Thank you. Another interpelation is Mr Vojtěch Munzar to Minister Richard Brabec on the environmental burden Kladno.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u177	Yes. Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to follow up my intervention on my previous interpellation with Minister Havlíček concerning the solution of possible contamination of groundwater in flooded mines in Kladno. I'm not gonna repeat all the arguments I've made here. Just from your government colleague's reply, I have a feeling that there is a bit of a denial of the results of previous studies, which led to the government's decision to allocate funds and measures to address this situation. And I also feel a little bit there from my point of view about transferring responsibility to your resort to solve this situation, even though the solution to the burdens of old mining works is supposed to be in the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. So I want to ask you, Minister, if you are prepared to take responsibility for solving this situation of groundwater in flooded mines in Kladno and for addressing the removal of burdens from old mining activities. Secondly, whether there is already a plan in the Ministry of Environment to address the whole situation and possibly what it is. And thirdly, whether the earmarked funds that have already been earmarked by the government will be retained or you will have to start de facto from the start, including a request for new funds to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u178	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleague, Kladno zdravo Kladno. It's just for the ignorant here, so we're both good Kladeňák. Well, I'm kind of moved today. [[Some Members are responding and waving.]] I've heard from my colleagues now from my county. But the origin is indisputable. Made in Kladno. So, of course, it's a personal matter for me, because I know the situation on the cop. [[17.40 hours]] We both know that the estimated cost of eliminating the old environmental burden can be there, and now, of course, I'm not just talking about the water issue, but about the total environmental burden in this area, is estimated somewhere around CZK 6 billion, which, of course, is a huge amount. However, it must also be said that there are many tens, even hundreds, of similar loads with similar priority in the Czech Republic. So even if this one is bigger, one of the biggest, of course, in terms of volume. Of course, we discussed with the MIT and the Ministry of Finance in the context of the change situation, when the proposal was to abolish the current resolution 296 and actually start talking about what to do next, and eventually after some rather very detailed expert debates, we decided that we were ready to take on the task. So that's also the answer to your first question. It also has to do with the fact that it will be a lot about various hydrodynamic models of water flow, and there, of course, we have the necessary qualification, expertise through the Czech geological service, but naturally it will be possible to sign up for other subjects as part of the contract. So we have now, and this also follows from the resolution, in the material that will now go to the government, I think 30 October should go to the government, so the task of the first stage of the work, which should be completed in the first quarter of next year, will in particular specify the estimated time of the drain of mining waters into the public water supply, the exact place of the drain and the amount of draining water and the prediction of its chemical composition. And based on the results of the first stage, the project documentation will then be processed for further research work and monitoring of surface and groundwater, thus actually updating the risk analyses available today. Part of the second stage, which is why I also think that this is heading for the Ministry of Environment, will be a comprehensive modeling of the flow of surface and underground waters in an environment disrupted by mining activities. This stage should then result in a proposal for measures to eliminate the potential risks of flooding the valley to the final overflow level. So that is also the answer to the second question of whether we have a plan, and we should actually put forward a project plan like this by the end of the year, according to the resolution, and it's already under way. And the third question. Yes, we would like to make use of the money, of course, if it has already been allocated somewhere and is really exhausted for a project, because of course we have historically financed the old environmental burdens mainly from the Operational Programme Environment, which is basically exhausted for this purpose. We will also try to secure some money in the new programming period 2021 to 2027, but at this point, of course, we do not know what the amount will be, and at this point we can say that it cannot even be sufficient to finance the entire burden, because at this time we had roughly three billion crowns on all environmental burdens. So I guess we're going to have a little bit more than that, and we can't really put it on one particular event at all. So we're ready to face it head-on, prepare the projects, start the stage, which will immediately, the first, end in the first quarter of 2020, and of course we all have a common goal. I can't imagine we'd even allow the danger of contamination with that water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u180	Thank you. There's an interest in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u181	Yes, thank you. Minister, thank you for a clearer and more specific answer than your colleague had the Minister of Industry and Trade for my interpelation. I also thank you for the remark on environmental burdens, because we both know that Kladno suffers from both the decline in mining and structural problems, yet it is not in the Nordic regions, but it is in Central Bohemia, which is why the finances often did not get to these things in the past, and I am just expressing the wish that this should change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u182	Thank you. I will read the apology of Minister Adam Vojtěch, who apologizes today from 18:00 to the end of the day on account of urgent work issues. Next in line is Mrs Dana Balcarová, with an interview with Minister Richard Brabec on the solution of the smell from VAFO operation in Chrášťany. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I wanted to ask you quite simply, and this is so: Why is it that so many people live in a stench that is unbearable in the long term? There are tens of thousands of people living there in Prague 13 and Prague 6. I'm sure you know the problem well, because these people are trying to use all possible legitimate means available. The capital city of Prague was set aside against this against the regional authority, as well as Prague 13, local associations demonstrate against it, write petitions, file appeals, submit suggestions on the Czech Environmental Inspection. This period, when they are harassed by the smell of the dog granules factory, lasts for years. Sometimes it's continuous days when the smell really is as intense as putting your head in a bag of dog granules. It's not like it's just some bad smell, but it's really brutal! So I'd like to ask the minister what it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u184	I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u185	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Thank you, my colleague, for asking or for interpelling. You're right, we've been dealing with this matter for quite a long time, and I'm just gonna get to it more like what's going on, or we're gonna tell each other what's really going on and what's going on, because, of course, it's going to be like an environmental inspection that's already done a lot of checks on citizens' initiatives. I went to Kladno several times, because, as I said a moment ago, I am Kladeňák, so I go to Kladno to see the children on the weekend, and so sometimes I go around through Zličín and through these areas and I really have met it. Not always, but sometimes the smell is distinctive. So there were several checks carried out and in February and March this year the Czech Inspection imposed fines on operators for operation without an integrated permit of CZK 100,000 and CZK 800 thousand. So the total amount of CZK 900 thousand has been fined, and of course this doesn't have to be final. And since in September of this year the Czech Environmental Inspection started the procedure for shutting down operations, I must say that there are several things happening at the moment. First of all, the procedure for stopping operations, which is currently being conducted by the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority, is also under administrative procedure for issuing an integrated authorisation under the Integrated Prevention Act. And, as you rightly said, the integrated permit was actually issued by the Regional Authority of the Central Bohemia Region in June this year, with the fact that the capital of Prague has been called off again, and the appeal is being dealt with by the Ministry of Environment for the second time. And since in both cases it is actually administrative proceedings, whether in the case of the Czech environmental inspection, so also the appeal to the issue of an integrated permit, you will understand that I cannot comment on them because it is not a political matter, but let's just say professional and official in this. So we're running these controls. [[17.50 hours]] I want to assure you that we are aware, or that it is simply clear that we are not satisfied with people being harassed by the smell. After all, we were visited by citizens of a peaceful demonstration that took place about a month or a few weeks ago in front of the Ministry of the Environment. Colleagues talked to them. And of course we're aware of the problem. The problem is a lot - and it is not just here, at this point, that everyone, or many times they say: let's deal with it some change of legislation. But in the past, the emission limit in scent units has been set in legislation and experience with this regulation has not been positive at all. Because the penalties for not meeting that limit were paradoxically given to operations that no one complained about and, on the contrary, problematic emission limits verified on the chimney were able to meet, and yet they harassed the surrounding area by smell. That is why, in the end, this limit has been abolished at the level of the decree, and I must say that it is not today established by European legislation or in other EU countries. And we've dealt with it several times. You also remember the last debate within the framework of the amendment to the Air Protection Act, where this limit was discussed. The Regional Authorities have the possibility, within their scope, to impose the technical conditions of operation to mitigate the odour, or to impose directly emission limits for odor-absorbing substances. And the Air Protection Act offers sufficient regulatory tools. That means that there are many times the problem in the zoning plan. That, in the zoning plan, the construction of something logical will be allowed to bother the surrounding development. Here's the complication that the facility was originally built as relatively small and smelly, even though it's been there for many years, it hasn't really bothered much. And the problem didn't occur until August 2018, when a whole series of stimuli really came. [[Attention on time.]] Excuse me, but I'll answer the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u186	Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u187	So I have to ask you a follow-up question, even if I didn't want to give you some space. Well, let me ask you a simple question. What are these citizens supposed to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u188	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u189	So at this point, they're doing what they're... Or they'll definitely continue to do what they're doing. That means they are rightly complaining that they are being harassed by the smell, in the village, in the city district, in the regional office, in our country, for inspection. Of course, we will continue to judge all these requests. And it is also necessary to wait for the outcome of the individual proceedings, whether they are involved in the integrated operation, because now they are in the context of the second appeal, so there has been added to the proposal, or to the request, a whole series of measures that should significantly minimise the risk of odour harassment. And that is already under pressure from the second appeal and pressure from the operator, because obviously he will have to invest more money into it. Which is undoubtedly correct, because I can look at it from the perspective of the former director of the chemist, which is known about me. The moment the neighborhood had a problem with us, we tried very hard to solve the problem. Even though we have fulfilled all the legal limits, we have come out to meet the surrounding area. Because I can't imagine a businessman who's angry at himself in the long run. That never leads to anything good. So I'm convinced that there are possibilities here. There are two proceedings that are currently underway. And I'm sure these people won't be satisfied with the fact that... let's just say they just calm themselves down. I think as long as it stinks in there, until then, they're gonna complain, and until then, the authorities are just gonna deal with it. And I firmly believe that the operator now realizes that it is not possible for me to live there in a long-term non-compliance with the surrounding area. But from the point of view of course, the Minister of the Environment - thank you - I can only say that we are going to let the administrative proceedings run now. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u190	Thank you. So we will be able to put one more interview, Mrs Pavla Golasowská, to Mrs Jana Maláčová, who is absent. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u191	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Madam Secretary, you want to introduce the so-called Advanced maintenance, when the State assumes this responsibility for non-payers who do not fulfil their parental obligations and do not pay their children's maintenance. This means that the maintenance will come from taxpayers' money. I'd like to ask you what tools you have to recover from the bad guys, now that we know that the state will only be able to recover 10% to 15 percent of the debt. As far as, for example, it is possible that: The Ministry of Justice has been informed by the Ministry of Transport that there are relatively few persons in the Czech Republic who are holders of these licences and who are not holders of the licence. These are individuals in the order. Furthermore, the introduction of this measure would require the establishment of a centralised register of such authorisations, which currently does not exist. In view of the fact that the current possibility of suspending a driving licence is an effective measure which is used to a sufficient degree, as evidenced by the statistics provided by the Executive Chamber. One of the other enforcement tools you mention is community service, which, in my opinion, will burden cities and municipalities with further administration and the cost of working with non-payers. In the total estimated costs of about CZK 860 million, are the cost of maintenance paid annually by the State included in the cost of this work? Or will the municipalities and cities pay for it from their budget? The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs discusses with the Ministry of Justice about greater use e.g. electronic bracelets for non-nutrient, respectively. other forms of sanctions? Does the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs also have an effective enforcement system prepared with the proposal for back-up maintenance? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-003-318.u192	Thank you for keeping the time to interpel. Since the Minister is excused and is not present, he will be answered in writing. Since it is 17.56 hours and according to the Rules of Procedure of the last interpelation may be given in 17.55 minutes, I shall end the point of interpelation. According to the agreement, we will continue to discuss the next point. The next item is
