ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u1	49. Annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2016 /German press 113/ We discussed this point on 20 June at the 30th meeting when we interrupted the general debate. I ask that instead of the rapporteur's table, this has already happened, Mr Petr Dolínek, who is the rapporteur of the electoral committee on this House press. The committee resolution is available as House press 113/1. We will now continue the adjourned debate. [[Note mb. Okamura.]] Yes, I've noted it, so it's now time for Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Television spends more than a year on what it earns. And I'll take it from the woods, as they say. Czech TV is a public institution. It is the fault of these people - the CEO of Petr Dvořák and the complete assembly of the Czech Television Council to control this station and its management. Czech television is an institution that manages non-transparentally, manages badly and has unbalanced news, which is politically manipulated. It is the CEO Petr Dvořák and the Council of Czech Television who have a chance to avoid this non-discriminatory management, namely one of the biggest thievings of raising money for the production of content. This is a classic model of Czech TV that shows. I have a graph here that clearly shows a comparison of public service stations in Europe. [[shows]] And anyone who looks at this graph, and it concerns broadcast programs by type of production, should be the first to punch him in the eye, especially an experienced manager, why Poland is actually leading Poland in the number of hours produced and the Czech Republic is right behind it, and how it is possible that Germany, for example, is far behind us. It's quite simple, although in the private sector it would be weird from the logic of things. I also have a second graph here, and here you can see exactly the other thing, that while such Germany or Denmark rely mainly on custom production or purchase, it is the Czech Television that is far from giving a shit about these two items. [[shows]] And now the point, now the reason why I say this, is to give a concrete example of the economics and the way in which the Czech Television works. While the shows, as Germany does, you have to let the standard selection procedure pass, not in the case of your own creation. This is why it is one of those obezlices shown by Czech Television and not by transparency and such a strange style compared to Germany, for example, with German TV, that Czech Television prefers the method of production of programmes so that there is no selection procedures. And, of course, I have to ask here why this simple matter will not reach the Council of Czech Television. I am not surprised that Mr Dvořák's CEO is missing Czech Television for some reason. Of course, now it is necessary to remember this point, which I am talking about, because I will soon get further. Because this method of economics of Czech television, which is of course different from that of Germany, is nothing but a big umbrella for strange, if you want black, orders. Since Petr Dvořák joined the Czech Television leadership, the savings of this station have fallen by almost CZK 2 billion. Even so, the head of public television receives a monthly salary of CZK 230,000, plus a million dollars each year. And do you know why the Czech Television Council is giving them to him? Because he says this one in quotes is supposedly a genius manager who can keep a balanced budget. Sure. But as we know, he can always reach into the reserves he created for Dvořákův's predecessor for that balanced budget. And here I would also briefly stop at what the Czech Television Council is, because I think citizens and viewers - they are not completely clear about it. The Czech Television Council is a supervisory body whose members are elected by the Chamber of Deputies here. So they're basically nominees for political parliamentary parties here. And here I'd like to say that the SPD doesn't have a single deputy. So the deputies that are there now are representatives of the current mainstream parties, basically everyone but, literally, everyone but the SPD. The pirát aren't there yet, they're also new. This means, apart from these parties, all other parties are represented there, so all other parties have butter on their heads and they are responsible for the way Czech television works. These parties are ANO, ČSSD, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, representatives have KSČM and so on. So these are the guilty, the accomplices, the accomplices of the current situation on Czech television. And what does the President of the Czech Television Council, Jan Bednář, say about this situation? So this is a person who refuses to talk for a long time, so he refuses to talk about the conversations he's invited to explain the situation. This again shows the scandalous situation around Czech Television. But he managed to trace his answer to the Young Front today. He said a very interesting sentence there. I quote: "My opinion is that there is no point in making too much money in a television fee fund. " Well, that's a very interesting opinion. This means, in his view, it is normal to manage the loss, supplementing the money from the reserve fund. It reminds me a little of Saddám Husajn, when he borrowed CZK 18.5 billion from the central bank on the side completely without liability and without any penalty. But let's take a closer look at the reserves and the management. In the year before last, Czech Television borrowed almost CZK 400 million from the reserve fund. This means, when I say it in other words, to make it clear, Czech TV ended up losing 400 million crowns. And while when a private subject or anyone or me ends up in a negative, we have to borrow, for example, a bank where I'd end up in a negative, not a Czech TV. He'll just take the money without permission from all of us. And I say that until Czech Television, for example, also publishes the salary and remuneration of executives, there is no way to talk about transparency. For years, I have been calling on both Václav Moravec and Nora Fridrichová and editor Wollner, those who control the programme Newsroom, the Czech Newsroom, 168 hours, and the Czech Newsroom, so I call on them to publish their salaries, because citizens are telling us that speculation is circulating that their salaries are in the order of millions of crowns a year. And they refuse. So they ask for transparency on others, but they themselves, who are paid out of public money, from licence fees, have refused to publish their salaries for several years. That means all citizens know how many MPs they have, how many officers they have, how many mayors, how many senators they have, everyone can track it down. But they refuse to tell us how many questions they have. This means, this also shows that there are some strange scams and iniquities going on there, because why an honest man would be afraid, when he is paid out of public money, to publish what he is collecting. So far, there's been talk of millions of crowns a year. So, really, as long as these and other people keep a secret about how much they're collecting from the licence fees of our voters, the SPD voters, that's really not transparency. And we disagree. We also know how the Czech Television and its Council are constantly explaining how great and wonderful this station is, how everyone says they admire it, love it, and I don't know what else... But it's interesting to look at some other numbers and hard data. While more than CZK 100 million was obtained from the sale of its programmes in 2016, it was already 25 million less a year later in 2017. What does that mean? That Czech TV shows are less and less interested every year. So much for the quality of Czech television. So it is not that quality is rising, on the contrary, the interest in the Czech TV shows is falling as regards the purchase of its programmes. [[12.10 hours]] Come in. If we look at this and if citizens are asking why Czech Television wants to increase licence fees, because they are always talking about how they should increase. We're still hearing it in public space here, we've heard it this year. So here's just a discussion about wanting to increase the licence fees. I've heard it many times. So the answer is simple. I get it in quotes. Of course, I strongly disagree. It just doesn't work out for them. And like I said, the TV fee fund is losing and losing weight, so the idea is where else to take money from our pockets again. Because, as I have explained, it is necessary to produce and produce in quotation marks. And to produce and produce so as not to be public tender procedures and, if possible, to be related companies and related suppliers. Tell someone to tell me it's not like that! Because we all know, and it's been going around a lot, and we've seen it on TV, the blackened contracts. Blackened contracts with suppliers. So it's definitely not transparent. Well, let's get rid of the contracts! Get him blacked out! They don't want to turn them off and at the same time produce them here, manufacture them in quotation marks, so that it doesn't go through transparent selection procedures as far as possible. And they don't even want to publish salaries. This means that this is the current state of Czech Television. Reminds me of an old Czech proverb: Stupid who gives, dumber who doesn't. But we will certainly not approach this style of work of Czech Television in the SPD. And now, let's see how this Czech TV standard works. Although the Czech TV knew that last year it would have less money to run, it clearly doesn't bother them. So, for example, compared to the year before last, they raised their salaries by 9 percent. Yes, they raised their salaries on Czech TV, compared to the previous year they raised their salaries by 9 percent last year. And actually, why aren't they communicating this? Why don't they tell the audience that? Why this is not the main news in the Events of Czech Television. I think that's a message that would be interested in the Czech Television and the audience's concessionaire. I think it's right on the front page! That on the main message they should give at 7:00 p.m., and still dismantle it in Events, comments and Václav Moravec, and on Newsroom, and on 168 p.m., and on Newsroom. And all of a sudden, it's not right for them! Why citizens do not know how they raise their salaries on Czech television in an astronomical way, even though there is non-transparency. And as we can see, even the interest in the shows is lower. And quite proven. And let's take a closer look at that, where the concession fees go with the salaries. versus salaries. At licence fees, this station will select about 5.5 billion. crowns a year. And out of them goes more than 2 billion. Kroner for salaries. I don't think the public knows either. It is, almost 40 percent of all licence fees disappear on salaries on Czech television. And they're going to increase by 9 percent and they're not communicating yet, they're not telling the citizens of the Czech Republic. Let's see how many people work there, too. Yes, almost 3,000 people work on Czech TV. Well, yeah, I think it's a shocking number, but you hear me well. 3,000 people actually work there, and when compared for example. with the Nova TV, which has higher ratings, and with other televisions that may have smaller ratings, but in turn, they have multiples, multiples, fewer employees, so it's really a crazy number. It is crazy, but the craziest thing is that it must be paid by citizens of the Czech Republic to an institution that is completely out of control and is not transparent. And if citizens want to get even more upset or really get angry, we can read in the 2017 Annual Report that although costs are rising, because they have added salaries, for example, but the number of hours produced per employee has been constantly decreasing since 2014. That means the costs are rising, but the number of hours produced is falling. Then I must say that Mr. CEO Dvořák, Mr. Wollner, Fridrichová, Moravec are really in quotation marks. Suck more and more into your pockets, but at the same time produce less and less hours, made hours per employee in conversion. And this is what some Members here want to tolerate! It is not possible to pay as sheep licence fees and at the same time tolerate such serious facts that we are talking about. Of course, on Czech TV it is ensured that our lovelies from the news are not afraid in quotation marks. So let's see what's going on with their financials, how much the news gets. Last year alone, more than 348 miles went out of our money. CZK, which is also more money than last year. This means that Czech Television prefers to cut things like dramatic creation, sport or children's work, but the last thing that CEO Petr Dvořák would need is mutiny and news problems. So, according to the principle of the Roman emperors, he'd rather send some money there, so it's quiet. But this method did not go well for the Roman emperors, as we know. Anyway, the budget for the year 2019, because I will stop at it with a few sentences, is fun in quotation marks, but I would rather say negative funny, of course also from another point of view. The news and document will improve their best. So we can already look forward to a set of the right documents that will explain how great the multicult world is. Of course, half of Africa has every right to come to occupy Europe, but Izraelec no longer have similar rights to the Palestinec. It is good that Africa can move to Europe, but Europe cannot go to Africa because it is interfering with other people's interests. And so I could go on. Well, they've got it all figured out really well with the funding, the management. And do you know why Czech Television will also give less money for sport? This is also an important area where many of our citizens liked to watch sports. And why isn't the football league broadcast on public Czech TV? A number of citizens are asking that question. Well, according to Czech Television, people don't want that. According to Czech Television, people do not want our football league on public television. Well, they say our citizens, the audience, want action from abroad. But there is a catch that is backstage very critical, and of course there is no evidence for it. Because when you buy rights to the Czech league, of course you agree on a small Czech sandbox directly. But if you buy big sports events from abroad, you buy them conveniently through various intermediaries. And, of course, they can offer various commissions. This is speculated that corruption may be behind this. Why the Czech league, which the viewers so used to watching on Czech TV, suddenly people don't want it. That's why he's not on Czech TV. And they say he's interested in foreign sporting events. So that is also the question of why, how, and what it takes for Czech Television to clearly disprove these speculations in order to comment on them. Because these are questions from citizens, citizens are thinking about it, citizens are asking us about it. Let's also look at eating on Czech TV. I don't want to criticize someone's diet or not, so I'm just gonna be at a bare number. Just so the citizens know, so you can keep track of how much it costs from the concession fee. So the Czech Television spends almost CZK 65 million on our fees. So I'd just add that. When the Czech TV here criticizes someone else's diet, anyone's, so we know how much it costs on that Czech TV. Sixty-five million crowns. Now I'd like to move on a little bit to the next point about Czech Television. I think, from what I have explained here, just one of those points would be enough to immediately reject such a bill or any report if it were not for Czech television. Because it's just not possible to manage billions here in a way that's not transparent. That's why I've been going over this place a little bit longer to realize the whole series of question marks, a whole series of question marks that need to be clarified. It's just an institution that's capable of taking as much money as we put in it. She doesn't give a damn. [[12.20 hours]] But now let's also stop for a moment at what the employees are doing. Public television and its news coverage are supposed to be independent. After all, that's what they're talking about over and over again. But then you look at the profiles of some people on social networks, by which I mean the main, most influential editors of Czech Television, and we are not surprised. First of all, how they are clearly politically profiling or manifesting. There is no doubt about their public expressions of opinion, which way of thinking is close to them. And I'm really wondering how in private life someone can swear at a group of citizens or politicians and then come to work and keep their distance. That's not possible. And I say this, even if I do not have deep knowledge, quite a long-term knowledge of those given by many editors and many people from Czech Television, because I have been performing myself in the media for almost 20 years, even on Czech TV, so I know many people very close and I have a friendly relationship with many people. Yes, but they're the ones who behave there, and they're the ones who follow the law there and who really take it as a public service. And there's a lot of them on Czech TV too. I want to stress that. There are a number of them on Czech TV. But unfortunately, they're not the ones who run it and what are the most influential. So I would really like to know how it is possible that the Czech Television management is prepared to tolerate such statuses as Marek Wollner 14 on Twitter. 11. 2018, check it out, Nora Fridrichová 6. 11. with a photo of the text of Zimola, it was from ČSSD or it is from ČSSD, and then below it put its status from 13. 12. Nora Fridrichová 1. 10. with photo, Luboš Rosí 12. 9., Jakub Železný 15. Three and so on. And so I could go on and on and on. In short, I want to draw attention to this, the fact that it is simply obvious that Czech Television holds one opinion, one opinion current, regardless of what the other, third or fourth part of the Republic thinks. And that really seems very negative to me, because who other than public service institutions should represent the interests and opinions of all concessionaires. And only us, in the SPD, voted for more than half a million citizens of the Czech Republic who are forced to pay licence fees, and for example, I have not been invited by Václav Moravec for four years to question Václav Moravec. That means, not that he invited me and I refused - he didn't invite me. He didn't even invite me. I'm saying again, not because he invited me and I refused, he didn't even invite me. The show didn't even invite me so that the dealers, the SPD voters, couldn't hear the SPD president's opinion, while other party chairmen were invited there. And this is the state of Czech Television that they do not want to make SPD opinions visible, they do not want the chairman of the SPD to be seen. But as I find it mostly scandalous from the point of view of being paid by our dealers, at least in the ratio of our electoral result, and yet he doesn't invite the chairman of the SPD to the show. So I'm just saying. We, of course, work within the cheaters, within those cheaters on Czech television, their cheaters, those political cheaters, so we just work in a different way, we try to reproduce or we try to communicate our bills to citizens and our program through other communication channels, but it's really with a raised finger that this is how the broadcast of Czech television is manipulated. He hasn't invited me in four years. He didn't invite me on the show. It's just a normally privatized show. Like Reporters CT, 168. They just privatized it with public money. Totally illegal, because the law gives clear boundaries and says that broadcasting should be balanced. So it is time for us as Members, we as SPD, to take a look at it, so that - I wanted to ask you all to look deeper at the economics and style of the work of the Czech Television, because if you as Members are at peace that Czech television with almost seven billion budget is running a 400-million-dollar deficit, then it doesn't leave me in peace and it doesn't leave us in the SPD. And I am not at peace anymore because, on the one hand, Czech Television is training us here and telling us what to think, but on the other hand, the stinking pier, which is currently the Czech Television, is completely missing attention. So, of course, can you imagine - here I will turn to members of the ANO movement - how, for example, would Andrej Babiš grill for any unpublished or blackened contract by Wollner, Fridrichová or Moravec? Now look, if they're doing the same thing, they're supposed to get away with it? When do we want to wait? This is about improving, improving the public service. That's all it is. In order to improve the public service and to keep an eye on and put pressure on the law in force, nothing more that clearly speaks of balance. That's all. Yeah? Just following the law. And while they currently have blackened contracts on Czech TV. In the opinion of the SPD movement, because the situation is completely unsustainable in our opinion, and as we can see, no positive change is going to happen, so I think it should be transformed into a state contribution organization. In short, we should cancel the licence fees, including in the case of Czech Radio, and that Czech Television should be financed from the state budget. For this reason, and another number, because we are here at the Czech Television Management Report, do you know how much it costs to collect licence fees by Czech Television? It costs 130 million crowns. So already for saving CZK 130 million to collect licence fees that could be used for something more meaningful. And what about those who say that our proposal to transform Czech Television into a state contribution organization, that it is a threat to democracy or the like - so schools are also a threat to democracy? Or is the police also a threat to democracy? I don't believe it. Plus, I have a specific example. Finland or the Netherlands also finance their public service television from the state budget and there is no threat to democracy and freedom. So if anyone was going to say that the SPD proposal is threatening democracy, that would be very stupid. Well, maybe I shouldn't have even said it here, so then such fools, because I've heard it from some of the so-called Sunshine politicians, so then we could say the argument, like Finland, Holland and other countries, because they always slap something and don't have examples from a democratic foreign country, from developed countries where it normally works like that. So, of course, Finland and Holland, as I said, finance their public service television from the state budget, and there is no threat to democracy and freedom. So this Sunshine politicians argument is just left-handed. Part of the Members believe that by accepting the Czech Television that you will not be angry with it - in quotation marks - that you will receive more kind treatment. But that's a cruel mistake. I've been performing on Czech TV and in other media for 20 years, but it really doesn't work that way. Whoever's hoping to be friends with him forever, because he's like he's keeping someone there, you're hoping in vain. It'll change in a second. In a second, only when something's blown over someone's nose, and you won't even know it. Therefore, from the beginning, before the behind-the-scenes practices and machinations that are taking place here, let us set up in accordance with the law so that Czech television works transparently and for all dealers, for citizens in the Czech Republic. And then we won't have to argue like this for long. [[12.30 hours]] In summary, the SPD movement considers the management of Czech television to be a matter to be addressed in the programme and in the long term. Czech television is in a position where it can actually collect its own taxes in the form of television charges, while at the same time there is limited the possibility of the state significantly controlling its management. In our opinion, there are really no effective mechanisms for controlling the management of Czech TV. The report, which was submitted, notes a clear trend in the decline in the financial reserves of Czech Television. A reservation that consists of fees from citizens. If I make it as simple as possible, the Czech Television's economy is coming to two ends. They will either demand an increase in television fees or a state subsidy. Such a tendency in the development of Czech television is unacceptable to the SPD. This is why our SPD MP will not support and will oppose reports on the management of Czech Television. And I believe that Members of other clubs will also take into account the simple conclusion that I have made here. I repeat that Czech Television is going to increase television fees or to apply for a state subsidy through its management. In our opinion, this conclusion is given by the fact that control mechanisms are not working. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u3	Thank you. Mrs Válková will now speak on the record of the vote on the last item, because she has not yet had the opportunity to do so, and then the factual remarks will follow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It makes me uncomfortable, but I found out to my very unpleasant surprise, even though it doesn't normally happen to me that I pressed, of course, because I have a very clear opinion about this, the button yes, when there was a vote on the Protocol on North Macedonia's approach to the North Atlantic Treaty, and I am the only one on high for YES, and there are very few of us here. So I thank Mr Bžoch for bringing this to my attention and for fixing it this way. Of course I do, but I won't question the important vote just because the button didn't work. Because I'm sure I did. [[Mrs Cernochová stands near the riverbed and outside the microphone suggests.]] All right, thank you, co-worker. I pressed yes, of course, but unfortunately, I'm not on drugs. One more time. Protocol on North Macedonia's access to the North Atlantic Treaty. Of course I'm in favour of this protocol and I pressed yes about rejection I pressed no. [[Ms Cernochová to Member of the War off the microphone: About rejection.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u5	Wait a minute, let's get to the bottom of this. So, madam, I would ask you to sum up what you are questioning or not questioning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u6	I'm begging you, one more time. It occurred to me that I should be talking here about voting not for rejection. But then there was the commandment of the committee to discuss, and there I voted the other way before I wanted to vote, so that's where I voted no, but I should have voted yes. I am not questioning the vote, I am in favour of the protocol, for its ratification, I am in favour of the foreign committee discussing this, but I have the opposite choice in high school than I have made. Thank you and thank you for your technical assistance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u7	Okay, you're not questioning the vote, we get it. So now I'm going to read two apologies. Mr Marek He apologizes excellently for working reasons from 12 to 13 o'clock, and Mr Jan Schiller apologises between 13 and 19 o'clock due to a doctor's appointment. Now we have a whole series of factual remarks that apparently ripped off my performance. So, Mr Tomáš Martínek, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u8	Thank you for the floor, I have to respond. It would probably be nice if we had these discussions on the electoral committee, where every Member can come to, every Member can say, not just members, and there is also Czech Television or the Czech Television Council, which can respond to the misleading information that falls here. This is about us without us. It's not as fair as it should be. But OK, let's go. I might actually respond to some of the things that fell at Mr. Okamura. ČT must not form reserves and in accordance with the recommendation of the Ministry of Culture, in accordance with long-term plans, it uses money from the fund for investment in infrastructure and on the second wave of digitization. Or soccer. ČT broadcasts one round of the Czech Football League every week, the owner of the rights did not allow more. To that mealable 65 million, 3,000 employees, it costs less than 60 crowns per day per employee. Otherwise, Finland. Finland does not finance its television from the state budget. Money flows through funds in the form of tax, but the government cannot determine the TV budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u9	We still have Mr. Holík's request. I may have a point here, but since it concerns the vote, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I've caught on too, I'm putting ashes on my head. I voted for rejection, unfortunately, I pushed it next door. I'm not questioning the vote, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u11	Well, for the log. Now the factual remarks in the order of Mrs Němcová, Mr Valenta, Mr Jaroslav Holík and Mr Radim Fiala. So, madam, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u12	Thank you for the floor. In time, I will only respond to two things which seemed particularly unfair to me in Mr Okamura's speech. As regards the salaries of employees of Czech Television. The salary of the Director-General of Czech Television is public information, as well as the Council of Czech Television decides on the amount of the annual bonus of the Director-General. Czech Television must respect the principle of the Personal Data Protection Act in relation to the publication of the salaries of all other employees. Public interest in this matter is in conflict with private interest and can generally be stated, I have requested this information that the salaries of moderators of the main publicist and news programmes on Czech Television are significantly lower than those of commercial televisions and are around twice the average wages of Czech Television. As far as sports are concerned, I have the honour to announce that sports rights are a problem for all local broadcasters, their prices are rising worldwide. Nevertheless, Czech Television offers these transmissions for the lowest fee in Europe and has already been secured today for example. broadcasting rights to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, Czech football team matches, World Cup 2022, Euro 2020, Champions League finals, UEFA Superfinals, World Hockey Championships by 2023, selected matches of the highest domestic football and the vast majority of hockey league, World Cup and European Athlete Championships by 2023, World Cup and Biathlon World Cup etc. I think this should be heard here. I will apply to the next post only in due time, these were merely factual remarks on the completely misleading information provided by Vice-President Tomio Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u13	So another factual point, Mr. Jiří Valenta, please. And the Rakušan MP will prepare himself. Sorry. Mr Radim Fiala and then Mr Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, a brief response to you. You have to a certain degree, virtually. to a significant extent truth and you repeated in your speech many of my reservations to Czech Television, but still the weeping about the fact that the SPD does not have its representative in the Council of Czech Television is not so appropriate. Perhaps you should know that the Czech Television Council members become candidates who are proposed by various non-profit and regional organisations. They are first evaluated by the election committee, which will carry out their narrower selection. In this step, it depends on their character qualities and performances of individual candidates and their ability to convince of their competence. In the shortlist, there are usually three times as many candidates as there are elected council seats. This narrow choice is then submitted to the House for a secret vote, which allows Members - and now for you - to vote independently of party decision-making. And that your nominees don't have support, it's your own fault. And so the de facto inaction of the Czech Television Council, which is a matter with which I fully agree with you, you cannot simply throw at the political parties that have so-called their representatives there. They only have their favorites there. This means that for example. Not even our so-called council representative Ivana Levá was elected there as a Communist party, but a union. I think it is a good thing that important regional, political, social and cultural currents are represented in the Czech Television Council, not only political currents, although they are of course important and must be represented there. But once again, my well-respected activity - for the record, the President of the Czech Television Council takes over CZK 50,000 a month - the board really has to do, which, in my opinion, is not really happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u15	Well, thank you. And now, on the point of fact, Radim Fiala and Mr Vít Rakušan will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to respond to the fellow pirát who spoke here - I am sorry, I do not remember the name. But you said it was unfair that we were talking about this. I mean, it's the law that we have to talk about this here. That we should only talk about this on the election committee. Well, don't be mad at me, but if the electoral committee approved all these reports, and we have a lot of reservations about that, a lot of reservations that are going to be about other reports that - I don't know if we're gonna get to them today, and I really wish we could get to them, it's management reports, so I think it's totally fair, and especially you gentlemen of the so-called. a democratic block, a democratic block, so we can talk about it here, right? I mean, that's what it is, that's what's fair. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u17	Thank you. And another with a factual remark, Mr Vít Rakušan. [[This is the messenger. Martínek.]] Well, in that case, I still have the facts here. So, Mr. Martínek. Mr Martínek, you are registered on a factual note, and then with priority rights, the Vít Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u18	Maybe I'll repeat what I said, 'cause I guess I didn't understand. Any Member may attend the Election Committee. And my point is, this is what's happening about us without us. There are no representatives of Czech Television, there are no representatives of the Council who could respond to the lies you say in these speeches. I'm afraid so. That's where we could've worked it out professionally. We could have handled this for real. It could have helped the future. Like, of course, we can talk about it here, but right. If there is to be a solution, there should be representatives who can actually respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u19	There. Now, therefore, with priority right, Mr Vít Rakušan will prepare Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to return the debate to the facts. After many feelings and impressions from the work of Czech Television have been heard here, I would return it to the substance of the matter where we are discussing the economics of Czech Television, and I would like to look at some numbers, I would also confront them with what was said here a moment ago. At the end of 2015, there were 1.4 billion Czech Television accounts. Crowns. The current management of Czech Television has decided to invest these funds mainly in the restoration of the infrastructure and future of Czech Television itself. The 1.4 billion. has been invested in the following projects between 2012 and 2017: construction of a new TV studio building in Brno and its equipment, which cost 470 miles. koruna; new digital technology for news production - 218 mil. koruna; exchange of technologies, lights in study complexes in Prague and Ostrava - originally these technologies were from the 1970s and called for exchange, it cost 110 million. koruna; The replacement of infrastructure, which concerns water, heating, cooling, which also came from the 1970s and was on the edge of life, cost 265 miles. koruna; The replacement of technology due to the transition to HD production cost 270 million. Crowns. Despite these investments, the amount of funds available at the end of 2017 amounted to a total of 2.24 billion. Crowns. Long-term intangible assets increased between 2011 and 2016 from 2.5 billion to 3.4 billion at cost. and long-term tangible assets increased 8.7 to 9.2 billion. There's one more thing to add that fits in here in this debate. Czech Television must not be allowed under Decree No. 504/2002 Coll., Act on Czech Television, create reserve funds. The free funds were deliberately collected between 2008 and 2011, when the TV fee was increased to CZK 135 and the advertising was not limited yet, i.e. the commercial revenues of Czech Television amounted to 1.48 billion. CZK annually, for the purpose of their use in the following years. Let me make one more comment that didn't fall from the previous speakers either. After all, the Ministry of Culture called on Czech Television in 2016. And it stated that these reserves should not exceed 10 per cent of the annual television expenditure, i.e. 650 to 700 million. Crowns. Please, let us stick to this debate of facts, let us not distort them, and let us also stick to the knowledge of the laws and regulations concerning Czech television. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u21	There. That was Mr. Vít Rakušan. And now he's getting off... There's another point of fact that came up again. If it is Mr Patrik Nacher. Please. I was about to call on Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, but... Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Well, I'm a little lost in translation right now, because we're now in the annual report on the activities of Czech Television and not the management. I was about to respond to the initial speech. That's right after. I'm the rapporteur, looking forward to the big debate. But now we're somewhere else, and all of a sudden there's numbers flying back and forth. Well, I don't know whether to respond to it or not. Or are we going to merge it, or... I already talked about it last time. So let's make a deal. But now it's a mess. This is where the numbers fly. And yet, the rapporteur here has the eye of this because we are talking about activities, not management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u23	Now, I'd like to ask for a performance... One more factual one, Mr. Vlastimil Válek. So Mrs Hyťhová can wait a little longer. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Leaving is a terrible thing. I wanted to ask you all, please let us act as editors of Czech Television. I beg you very much. Let us act like professionals in our work. All doctors do it, although in the private life of some groups of our patients - they may be prisoners, they may be pedophiles, they may be other groups - we don't like and criticize them. Let us remember that in our professions and jobs we are professionals, and let us separate our professional work from our private opinions. If we can do this as editors of Czech Television, we can be proud.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u25	There. I will now request a performance by Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u26	Dear Government, honourable Members, at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the points of the Annual Report on Economics and also the activities of Czech Television for 2016 and 2017. Of course, I have read all these reports thoroughly. In the long run, I am really very concerned about the work of our public television. [[Noise in the hall.]] Would you mind if I...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u27	Yes. Then I would ask you to remain calm so that the honourable Member can express herself in peace. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u28	In the long run, I am very concerned about our work as a single public television network. The money that we citizens, taxpayers, pay, which is CZK 135 a month, is the amount for which I would expect serious and objective information for all our citizens, because this television is really the only one that pays the licence fee. Unfortunately, this reality is completely different. Last year, on the school committee, which I am a member, he addressed a point that dealt with the children's channel déčko The Education Committee has really taken a critical stand on the News on this children's channel of Czech Television. The Education Committee largely adopted a resolution which contained that the public child programme increasingly violates political neutrality and, in particular, shows an effort to indoctrinate children and young people, including pre-school children. [[Laughter from the right.]] Of course, I also voted in favour of this resolution as a representative of the SPD. Mr. CEO of Czech Television Petr Dvořák, despite being invited, did not attend the meeting, and justified his efforts to avoid speculation, which could be interpreted as an attempt to politicize the selected programme or the entire programme. In my opinion, the fact that the director did not come and send any representative for himself is really very unserious and literally catastrophic behaviour of the director of a single Czech public television. On the contrary, I find it very smiling that the director argued that he wanted to avoid speculation about channel politicization. But I think Czech television is already politicized. And the fact that Czech TV's policy is presented on children's shows is really scandalous. We on behalf of the SPD will vote against these annual reports by Czech Television because we are promoting that television paid by our citizens should provide objective information. As a teacher, I have to take a very hard turn against the Czech TV policy in programmes intended for children. And next time, I would ask the House to remain calm and not laugh when the speaker is speaking. It's really rude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u29	That was Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. And now here I have one request for a factual remark, and it is the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. I'll read three apologies before they arrive, so you can take a slow step. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch from 12:30 to 13:00 on account of urgent work issues. In addition, Interior Minister Jan Hamáček from 16.45 today to the end of the meeting day for work reasons. And Mr Jiří Kobza, Member, between 14 and 21, today, on account of the electoral process in the region. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u30	I would like to join Mr Nacher's appeal. I was not laughing, Madame Vice-President, I was just lifting my eyebrows. Read the title of the item - Annual Report on Czech Television in 2016. You were talking about a show we're supposed to discuss when the Annual Activity Report is here in 2018. So you're two years out. Two years out. How does what you said have to do with the material you read so closely? I'm pretty sure there's nothing in the material about it. Logically, when it's 2016 and you're talking about the 2018 show. But let's keep talking about the show, I say, for 2018. I am, of course, a supporter of the debate in plenary. I am certainly a supporter of the plenary debate, and I think it belongs here. But if it's possible, let's stick to the year. Or let us put the debate on all reports together, that is, of course, legitimate. And then we could discuss the management and activities of Czech Television for the years 2016 to 2017. This, of course, is legitimate and would be more comfortable for speakers and those who are ready to respond to that point. So today I'm not gonna suggest it anymore. There's no point in nine minutes. But the moment we get back to it, I'm sure I'll suggest we merge the debate at least every year. Because it's intersecting, both the activity report and the management report. It's definitely connected. And then we would not have to face the legitimate accusations of Mr Nacher. I totally agree with him. So what I'm trying to say is to all the other colleagues who are going to perform, so that at this point we stick to 2016 and the activity reports. That's all. And I'm a fan of the critical debate in plenary. I don't mind, so let's get back to it and spend another hour on it. And when we get to the vote, then let all Members and Members speak freely. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u31	Now, with a point of fact, the chairman of the SPD, Radim Fiala. Please take your word for it, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u32	Let's make this brief. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura to bring this debate together. Because whether we dream it or not, the activity is mixed with the management, and of course one thing depends on the other. As for the performance by my colleague, Mrs Hyťhová. I understand her, I understand her humanly. Because if we're going to discuss the problems that the Czech Television dealt with in the school committee, the Reporters, in connection with the Czech Television report, that means whether it was in 2018, then I guarantee you that in 2022 or 2023 you won't recognize the Reporters at all. And if she has the urge to tell the citizens, the public, what's going on there and that the Education Committee is dealing with it, even though - yes, the President is right, it should not affect how we vote on the 2016 Activity Report. But on the other hand, I also understand my colleague, who wants to protect Czech children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u33	Thank you. And I'm just asking the President of the ODS. Mr Stanjur, do I see this as your procedural proposal to merge the debate? 'Cause that's what we'd have to vote on. It fell from the mouth of President Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u34	Yes, make sure we're done for the next time. I propose to merge the debate on points 49 and 50, to the House press 113, and... I think it's 114, now I'm not sure. Mr. Nacher would fill me in. At least that one year, that we would debate in one debate. Even if we don't do it today, the next time we get back to it, the debate will be merged and we won't have to think: now it's up to numbers, now it's up to the shows. So I agree that it's definitely connected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u35	Okay. So I get it, I'll do it again. So I'm gonna go on and call the Members to the Chamber. So I'm just gonna do it again. We will vote on the proposal to merge the debate on press 49, which is the Annual Report on Czech Television's Activities in 2016, and the Press 50, which is the Annual Report on Czech Television's Management for 2016. So I'm gonna do one more thing just in case. We'll wait a while. President of the SPD Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u36	Mr President, I would just like to clarify this in accordance with the proposal of the President of the ODS. Because you said we were going to merge it all together, and the chairman of the ODS Club, if I understood correctly, and I agree, suggests that we only merge reports on activities and management in 2016. That would be one vote -- and the second vote would be the merger of activity and management reports in 2017. [[President Okamura: That's what I said.]] Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u37	That's how I understood it, but it was only said in 2016. So I'm gonna do it again. [[The O.R. says it's only 16.]] Only 16. Well, I got that right. I'm asking you to be clear. We will vote on the merger of the debate on the Annual Report on the activities of Czech Television in 2016, that is paragraph 49, and on point 50, the Annual Report on the management of Czech Television in 2016. I think everyone knows what's going on here. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of merging the debate? Who's against it? It's vote number 77. 172 Members are registered, for 134, against 0. The motion was accepted. We will therefore continue the merged debate on paragraph 49 and point 50. We have a logged in, so far as the last one, Mr. Jan Hrnčíř. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I'm just pointing out that we're going to interrupt the meeting at 1:00 p.m. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u38	Mr President, dear colleagues, I will be very brief for about two minutes. Unbiased news is gradually disappearing from our public media. Editors often confuse reports with comments, selection of politically acceptable topics takes place, politically incorrect comments usually do not appear, and if only once. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] It's like no one's expecting objectivity from the current media anymore. There is a constant repetition of the mantra of independence, the content of which few think anymore. No one would ever consider independence in the case of private media -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u39	I'm begging you to calm down. Mr. Ambassador, wait a minute. I am asking the Chamber of Deputies for peace, because it really is hard to hear what the Member is saying, even though he is trying to speak very loudly. So please, take it easy. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u40	Thank you. However, in the case of public media, we have a false feeling that it belongs to all the people and that it also defends their interests because it is said that it provides public service. It is the incompetence of the concept of public service that creates room for different influence groups in order to strengthen their political power. This false notion that the media, which actually belongs to everyone, must be automatically independent and objective, then provides them with an advantageous defensive position whenever someone tries to uncover the ties and political goals of these groups. Their call to mobilize the public to defend the independence of public media is therefore merely a call to defend their own political influence. [[13.00 hours]] This is also the case with Czech Television. Czech television works as a promotional tool for the current mainstream political discourse. It creates its own political agenda and deepens its political influence. It is not responsible for any voter and is controlled only by the media board. Do we really want a Czech TV that performs a consistent focused idea massage and exposes both propaganda and small children? Some programs of the children's channel ČT D are social engineering beyond all limits. These are controversial evenings and children's reports, which present certain political issues to children. This continuous promotion of multiculturalism or homosexuality on the children's channel is unacceptable. There are specific scandals about the Czech Television's management. This is a cover-up of contracts, the execution of millions of crowns to related PR agencies, although Czech Television has its own PR department, the concealment of the rewards of key workers and so on. When the Czech Television runs out of the financial reserve created by the previous management, it will fall into a multimillion-dollar loss. There is whispers that powerful financial groups are waiting for this moment to privatize Czech TV, not only because of the lucrative land it has so far. The approval of annual reports means continuing the economic problems of Czech Television and forcing the need to increase licence fees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u41	So, that was Mr. Jan Hrnčíř. We have 12.59 - with a point of fact or a debate with Radim Fiala, Chairman of the ODS - SPD, sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, since it's 13 o'clock, I wish you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u43	So it's 13 o'clock, so I'm interrupting today's meeting, and I'll see you at 2:30 p.m. at the interceptions. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-07-11-ps2017-033-03-003-049.u44	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, the next item on our show is
