ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u1	53. Proposal of the Prague City representative for the Act amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on trades and trades (business law), as amended /German press 247/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as a House press 247/1. On behalf of the council, Hana Kordová Marvanová will state the bill. Please take the floor if we wait for the House to calm down. [[It's a delay.]] I would call on you, Members of Parliament, to calm you down, those who wish to discuss something other than the trade law, so that they may eventually move to the galleys to break the discussion rings. Thank you. I think we can continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u2	Hello, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. Allow me to present a proposal for the capital city of Prague Representation of the capital city of Prague to issue a law amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business business. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to address the problem faced by Prague in the long term, namely since 2008, when tourist guide services have been excluded from the tied trade and where no qualifying prerequisites for carrying out this activity are already prescribed under the law. In practice they are recorded especially in the centre of Prague when performing before cultural monuments, which are countless in Prague, cases of unqualified performance of these services and the provision of incorrect, false or misleading information are recorded by some entities performing tour activities without appropriate education, because today the trade guide can be obtained by anyone 18 years of age and has a clean criminal record. Based on this fact that this is a huge problem in practice, and I think it is not only the problem of Prague, but it may also be a problem for some other cities where cultural monuments are important, so it is our intention, and I point out this to the entire Prague City Representation, when this proposal was approved by another coalition during the last parliamentary period, but it supported this time and the entire Prague City Representation, which means across both the coalition and the opposition... I would ask you to pay attention to this, even if you do not live in Prague, so you do not have to see it as such a big problem, but we should believe that this is being brought to the attention of various entities active in tourism and guide activities in the long term. Specifically Association of Guides of the Czech Republic, Association of Guides of the Czech Republic, Prague Information Service, respectively Prague CzechTourism and others. On the basis of these suggestions, it is proposed in this proposal that the tourist guide activity be re-integrated into the trades bound, where the condition would be the achievement of appropriate training in tourism or at least general education and the demonstration of certain practice of the guide activity, or also on the basis of the presentation of proof of retraining or proof of carrying out the test. Our interest, the interest of Prague and I dare say to the whole Czech Republic should be to ensure quality activities of professionally competent guides and to provide such services as would correspond to the importance of the cultural heritage of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic belongs to its cultural but also natural wealth, history among the world's cultural powers, and this position should also correspond to the level of information that is provided about it, its monuments, its traditions, but also the present. So let me ask you to support this proposal with this, if you allow it to be read again, so I think that it could then follow in the committees a detailed discussion with experts who could give you a detailed account of how important this activity is and why it is important to introduce this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u3	I, too, thank you, and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Petr Dolínek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, I therefore come forward here as rapporteur for the first reading of Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business business, as amended, whose author is therefore the Representation of the capital city of Prague. I would like to stress that it is not only the council of the past that delivered this law, but at the December meeting where the new Representation of the capital city of Prague was already, the law was proposed, or the initiative was used in the same version. This means that even in the current composition, the council has full support. Ms. Alderman Dr. Marvanová was empowered by the D.A. to perform here and defend this proposal of Prague. [[16.30 hours]] The bill was sent to Members as press 247 on 25 July last year. At its meeting on 22 August last year, the Government discussed, assessed and agreed to the bill. The Organizing Committee therefore recommended economic as a guarantee committee at the end of August and I was designated by the rapporteur. The subject matter of this legislation is the regulation of the trade law consisting of the inclusion of guide activities into the so-called. regulated, i.e. bound trades, for which it is necessary to demonstrate the relevant education and practice in the field. The doctor has already said the reason. In the case of this law, this amendment, entrepreneurs in this area would therefore have to demonstrate the professional capacity or practice of both their own and their employees, which is very important precisely from the point of view of the proposal, so that there can be no circumvention, that only someone in the group will prove competence and others will only benefit from the expertise of one group. The amendment of the law consists in the incorporation of the subject of business, i.e. tourist guide activity in Annex 2 to the trade law, i.e. between trades bound. The required competence includes higher education in the study programme and the field of study focused on history or tourism. Or, and this is important, there is also recognition of higher vocational education in the field of education focused on tourism or secondary education with a graduation exam in the field that is focused in this direction. This means that it really is quite open and allows a relatively large range of people to meet the conditions set out in this law or draft law. It is also envisaged with the possibility of accredited courses by the Ministry of Education, as well as with other options that would be there for one to prove it to one's education or practice. This law is open to me on this matter. As I said, the proposal for an amendment to the Trade Act also envisages the inclusion in Annex 5 of the Trade Act, which contains a list of trades whose performance the entrepreneur is obliged to provide only natural persons meeting professional qualifications, of the tourist guide's activities of requirements and professional competence. [[unintelligible]] So like I said, it's not one person. They're all people involved. The draft amendment to the Trade Act also envisages transitional provisions. According to him, an entrepreneur who, on the date of the entry into force of this amendment to the Trade Act, will carry out a guide activity in the field of tourism within the scope of the trade, i.e. production, trade and services not specified in Annexes 1 to 3 to this Act, may continue this activity for a period of one year from the date of entry into force of the Act. If, before the end of that period, the entrepreneur declares that he intends to continue carrying out this activity and proves to the Trade Office that the professional competence for the trade is fulfilled, that is to say, to guide and tourism activities, the Trade Authority shall enter the trade register and issue an extract to the entrepreneur. This act shall not be subject to an administrative fee. In vain expiry of this period, the licence to guide activities in the field of tourism is no longer valid. This means, even here, that there is sufficient room for everyone to adapt to the proposed legislation. The purpose of the proposed amendments is, according to the applicant, hl. City of Prague, improvement of guide services. In the case of the approval of this amendment to the Trade Act, a return will take place in this respect before 1 July 2008, when this activity was in those linked activities. At that time, by moving a number of tied activities between trades free, the legislator followed the simplification of the whole system and narrowing regulation only to those trades whose unprofessional performance could cause harm to human health and serious damage. If you remember, it was about ten and a half years ago, which really made life a lot easier for businessmen and small entrepreneurs. You remember that at the time everyone really had to prove whether he was professional in any area etc. It limited the possibility of being freely mobile in the business market. In the opinion of Prague, it appears that it was not for the benefit of this trade. It meets the requirements that it does not endanger human health and cause serious damage, of course, but it has proved to cause damage in the area of cultural values, virtually. interpretation of history and quality of communication of guide activities or quality within Prague. This means that there is a threat to the quality of the service provided to consumers, that is, to those who are interested in the activities of the guides themselves. For the sake of completeness, I add that out of the 28 EU Member States, the activity of the tourism guide is regulated in this way within 13 countries. France, Croatia, Italy, Cyprus, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Austria, Romania, Greece, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain. It must also be added that there are mechanisms within the European market as well, as a guide can very simply register its services within another EU country. Now I would like to be a little bit under the line of this law, only the experience of negotiating this law, its preparation to be discussed at all, and it is simply such an appeal above all to the organizational committee, virtually. on the creation of the House of Deputies programme in general. As I said, hl. Prague City passed the law or proposed amendment last spring and was delivered to the House a year ago de facto. And it takes a year for this matter to be discussed. I say this is beyond the news report, but I would nevertheless like to mention here whether it would not be appropriate to consider whether, when using the region or someone else who has a law, except the House or the Government, the right of legislative initiative, whether we could preferably, at least in the first readings, just prioritize so that the work that has been done within the regions, that means that it had to be dealt with by the council of the region or Prague, or within the regional councils, was not taken into account in the fact that even the House will primarily address it, even at the price of rejection at first reading, but in order that it was actually given the satisfaction that it is a matter which is based on a law which allows the right legal initiative of the regions or someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate in which Vice-President Okamura is entered with priority rights. Mr Pour, Mrs Kovářová, Mr Janda, Mr Nacher and Mr Munzar. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to comment on this draft law on the regulation of guide activities. At first, I report a conflict of interest in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because, of course, I have been moving in tourism my entire professional life. So this proposal is really, I'd say fatal. Basically, this proposal will completely destroy tourism in the Czech Republic. That is why I am glad, and I am sending that a number of discussions have already taken place with Members of various Members' Clubs, and that there is more or less a majority agreement on whether I saw it correctly, that if it goes through the next reading, then we should discuss the comprehensive amendment, which I know is already ready, because to accept it in this text, it is basically a total threat to the entire tourism industry in the Czech Republic. And I'll be specific. One. We, because we are members of the EU, are being paid by two EU directives, and this is a directive on the free movement of labour, and the second is the directive on the recognition of qualifications. This means that while Germany is a free trade and Germany is a free trade, I stress, and German tourists are at the same time in the first place when it comes to arriving in the Czech Republic, that is, German guides could carry out freely on our market in Germany and it is also currently in this way, so we will basically restrict Czech citizens' access to our own internal market. And that is what I think is crucial to this proposal. This means that our Czech guide would have to be qualified in some way, and I will, of course, still get to that, but the German guide will also be able to carry out this amendment freely. So I can't imagine that we could be here to encourage discrimination against our own citizens in our own market. And since we are part of the EU and the two directives on free movement of forces and recognition of qualifications apply here, unfortunately, we do not have the only option of ordering foreign guides to carry out our qualifications only with us. There is no such possibility. There is no such option. Because it is the same for Czech guides, and I am already at outsourcing, that is, when Czech guides are free to perform - finally - Czech groups abroad. [[16.40 hours]] This means Czech guides - remember those times when we entered the European Union, when our tourist groups, I would say low-cost tours, took the bus to visit Venice, Rome, Paris. Since our tourists didn't have the money to pay for the French or Italian guide, the Czech guide explained the sights inside the bus and went quietly outside, because of course we didn't have the power to pay for the expensive Western guide. However, the situation has changed a long time ago, and thanks to the fact that the two European Union directives on free movement of workers and recognition of qualifications apply, our guides, Czech guides, without problems, no extra fees for Czech tourists perform our tourists in Venice, Rome, Florence, Paris. This is due to the fact that there is a so-called international guide card issued by the Ministry of Industry here, and on the basis of this card, Czech guides can freely perform in the countries of the European Union. Likewise, because it is a free trade with us, so we can, our guides perform Czech groups abroad. And now to apply it to your proposal. Basically, when you make the guide business a tied business, you will naturally make tours more expensive for Czech tourists abroad, because, as you know, and I assume that the applicants know this, the European standard guide in case it is not a free trade, asks the guide course according to the standard by 500 hours. I don't know if the standard has changed, but it's always been 500 hours. Of course, I understand that there is lobbying here, for example, the Turquoise Guide Agency, it is Mrs Myslivcová, that they want to make it a tied business at any cost to make these challenging courses here, but as proposers, you forgot that you will also be affected by an outgoing guide, which means a guide to Czech tourists abroad, and you will make this proposal more expensive tours for them. And this is the complaint number two - the cost of trips to Czech tourists abroad. Therefore, the opinion of the Association of Czech Travel Agencies and Travel Agencies, which brings together the most outgoing travel agencies on the Czech market, is negative on this proposal because there are those travel agencies that do a lot of bus tours. After all, Mrs. translator, Mrs. Deputy, Mrs. Marvanová had a meeting with the President of the Association of Czech Travel Agencies Roman Škrabánek and, as translator of Mrs. Marvanová, it was clearly said that the association is against, because this is what will make the sightseeing tours of Europe more expensive for Czech tourists. That's number two. This means, firstly - I will just repeat this - the first complaint is discrimination against Czech citizens, Czech new potential guides on our market compared to those where it is a free trade - and I note that in Germany, for example, it is a free trade, which is the largest number of tourists to the Czech Republic, so it is offered that such a proposal is simply crazy in this form. And then it's an expensive trip abroad. The third complaint is the regions. Yeah, but there's a pretty good match here. It's a problem. It is a Prague proposal, I do not see it as a problem, but that in other regions this problem does not exist at all, because in other regions of the Czech Republic the problem is completely different, but it is a lack of guides and a lack of guides for all the necessary language mutations. That means, yes, English, German. Okay, now that we're in Krumlov. But even though we are already going to UNESCO places, and by that I mean smaller sites of UNESCO, such as Třebíč, Telč etc., they do not have any Japanese, not one Chinese, they often do not have French or Spanish. So, of course, there is now a question of who will do it there, because today the situation in the Czech regions is that they are happy for every tourist, which is right because in the Czech Republic more than 60 percent of all foreign tourists travel to Prague and only 40 percent travel outside Prague, which is the ratio that corresponds to the developing country, not the developed, but the developing country, because in any western developed tourist country, the spread of tourists across the regions is much larger, see Austria, Germany, because even those regions are sufficiently developed to attract tourists at a high level of service. On the contrary, we as the Czech Republic, if we weren't just thinking about Prague - and I know it's just a proposal from the Prague council, just a narrow group of segments - so if we really wanted to move tourism, we should, on the contrary, strive to strengthen tourism in the regions and not to restrict tourism in the regions. It's exactly the opposite. The proposal should be - virtually. The proposal shouldn't be anything at all. The proposal goes directly against getting as many tourists into the Czech regions as possible. This means that today it works in regions by bringing in Italian or Spanish groups, because, of course, Italian and Spanish, even these relatively common languages, they just don't get them in Czech regions, even in tourist locations, and they do it on the very basis of the two directives, free movement of labour and recognition of qualifications, they have a guide card, such as issued by Ital or Španěl, and they simply do it in their respective Czech regional city. Regional cities are satisfied because they spend money on their castle, on their lunch and everything. Moreover, today they do so because it is a free trade, that cities will train within the infocenter of their students, by means of pensioners who are trained purely seasonally only for their town, for their square and, for example, for their castle, they will earn so much and the city is satisfied because they only do theirs, they are trained there and there is no false information. And now, of course, your proposal. If we make it a tying business, it will cause them to take the course, where the European standard always assumed about 500 hours, and even if it were less, they will have to go to a city expensively to do tens of kilometers God knows where, because schools for guide courses are simply not in small tourist places, and you will cause total collapse and blackout even those local Czech guides who are in the Czech regions. This is another mistake of this proposal, because it is simply designed only in Prague, the city of Prague, by the representative of Prague, but not by us, who have been doing business in Prague all our lives and we are big players in this incoming. Next - Asian clientele. This proposal will no longer be taken into account, because, as you know, and the translators know, so Asian tourists are even in the top ten arrivals to Prague, not only in terms of quantity but also in terms of spending. They're korejec, and just past ten, they're Japonec. And now I don't know if while you were working on the proposal, you did a technical research that was a total lack of Chinese-speaking guides. So, for example, in Cantonese there is only one Čech that performs, and in Mandarin I think there are three. And they're totally inadequate because they also do court interpreters because they're needed for court interpreting. All of us who actually work in tourism with Asian clientele use Číňan, native Číňan, who have trade licenses here, have residence permits and pay taxes here, because there is no one to carry out such a number of tourists. And I think Chinese tourists go to Prague three quarters of a million a year. Ten Czech guides, not even twenty or even fifty, are not enough for this. Chinese-speaking guides would have to be a huge number, but such Chinese-speaking people simply do not exist in the Czech Republic and will not exist for at least ten years, even after ten years, because by far not everyone wants to be a guide even of those who may have completed some Chinese at Sinology at Charles University. Japanese, for example, used to be that every two years they open up about ten or fifteen study sites at Charles University, so even Japanese don't gain. Basically, your proposal will bring a total collapse of the arrival of Asian tourists to Prague. You can argue - yeah, they can verify their qualifications, they can have a school of tourism in China, as you suggest, just like the Czech citizen. Yeah, but you'd have to speed up the so-called nostrification report card a little bit at the Prague City Hall. After all, the European report card, the nostrification of the European secondary school certificate, is currently in the Prague City Hall for three quarters of a year. I know because my son graduated after graduation. So I physically know that he almost missed his Czech college application because nostrification to my surprise, because it's probably about once in a lifetime, so his European graduation from the western country - even though he graduated from Czech high school, so to my surprise they have some Swiss graduation there, it's normally a high school in Prague where they have English, so the nostrification of his certificate so that he could apply to Czech college at all, it lasted three quarters of a year at the Prague City Hall. If this is your proposal that even the guides to the total lack of languages, which, of course, are driven hundreds of thousands to qualify, then they basically have to nostrifify a report card to fulfill some of the tourism school or what you're writing there, it's actually unrealistic. Your proposal is completely unrealistic even in itself for the city of Prague. That means another thing I'd like to say. This means, in summary, it is the restriction of Czech citizens in their own market compared to foreign citizens in access to the work of guides. Secondly, the price of Czech tours abroad, because it will also apply to guides of Czech tours abroad, because the guide activity is only one business, there is no guide for outgoing or incoming. [[16.50 hours]] The third thing is the total lack of guides in the Czech regions. Unfortunately, you did not take that into account in Prague, it will cause collapse. And the fourth thing is an Asian clientele that runs here hundreds of thousands a year, but there are no language-based people in the Czech Republic who could do it. Come in. Mr Dolínek here spoke as rapporteur about the fact that this was a tied trade until 1998. Or 2008. Mr President, I am not angry with you here. But I'm an expert, and I was in the business at the time. Do you know how it worked until 2008? The way it worked, those group guides were dating two Asian groups. That means one was the one who had the license, didn't speak a word of Japanese or Chinese, but the group had to pay for it. At the same time, they were dated by an equally unlicensed Číňan or Japonec who told them all about it. And the one who had the license that he could only speak Czech, he only dated them all the time. This means that the clientele had to pay two guides at once, which brought huge cost groups and those people obviously did not want to go to the Czech Republic. So it's exactly the opposite. It's a good thing it became a free trade because those tours were made available to solvent clients from Asian countries. It's exactly the opposite, the argument in practice. But I'm not mad at you because I've worked my whole life in it. So I'm telling you how the practice was. And what you seem to have accidentally commended here through the President. You commended a system that was totally dysfunctional and, on the contrary, was criticized by Chinese, Japanese, and other travel agencies. It's exactly the opposite. So we don't want to go back into this. Furthermore, as regards complaints about quality. Well, don't be mad at me, but that's a huge rumor that some guides are always spreading that some clients are complaining about the lack of interpretation. But I've never seen a single written complaint confirm that. So I'd like to challenge you to show one at the same time. Except that you say it verbally. Because I was in charge of the Association of Czech Travel Agencies for over ten years, it was a well-known association. Thanks to our members, millions of tourists came to Prague, but we never noticed a single complaint about the quality of the interpretation at the association. Not even once. I was in charge, and I even had the position of a press spokesperson. That means nothing like this has ever come to us. That means if we're going to hit a really big segment like this because of some marginal case with all the complaints I'm saying here, that's really not a relationship. Let's just say that again. I heard when I was discussing it with representatives from Prague who are around you and around those who were preparing it, so they said, they admitted that the problem is called umbrella workers. These are the guidebooks in the quotation marks that are with the umbrella next to the Old Town Clock and they're actually offering those services for free for tips and it's actually a black guide. Well, there's always an argument: if you'd seen it here on Old Man. Well, I've been at National and Knight's for over 20 years. So on that staromák Man, I'm x times a day, and I'm a guide myself. So I don't need to look out the window. I'm right in that practice every day. This means that if we want to affect hundreds of thousands of Czech tourists travelling abroad, hundreds of thousands, almost a million Asian tourists who spend money and come to the Czech Republic because of five six umbrella workers, this is really an imbalance. It means, it's a shame that we didn't consult the proposal in advance, because I think we could drag it so that everyone would be satisfied. But that actually corresponds to the proposal made by Mr Nacher here, who has prepared a complete amendment on behalf of the ANO movement. And it's actually getting a little bit closer to that. This means, therefore, that I hereby propose that this be said, that the motion be rejected, because the proposal is totally unprepared. And I think I've made it very clear here - that's just the total collapse of tourism. But in the event that the motion for rejection fails, I will of course be happy to cooperate here on Mr Nacher's amendment. 'Cause there's basically the option so everyone has to have some kind of free trade, but. And if you want to get professional qualifications, there's two degrees of that card. Whoever's free is just gonna have an I.D. on who wants to make it, so they're gonna have a different color card. Well, at least in some way it doesn't hit those problems that I'm talking about, I mean the negatives. And maybe it's some sort of shift. But the design as it is, it's really a collapse. We can all end up here with really Asian clients, expensive trips abroad and so on. Next. You said, and you said correctly, that from 28 countries in the European Union alone in 13 countries it is somehow regulated. However, it is also necessary to clarify how this is regulated. So when you were talking about neighbouring Austria, again - I apologize again through Mr President, because I really have been doing this my whole life, and I have always been in charge of this issue in detail in the association. So you were talking about Austria. So we talked about Germany, there's a free trade. So from that point of view, we can see for ourselves how strange your proposal is, or how strange it is from this point of view. But let's say Austria, where it's not a free trade. But do you know how it works in Austria, through the President, Mr Dolínek? There it works so that the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, based on supply, determines which languages are inadequate, so there is, for example, Chinese among them, and they are excluded from the need for qualifications. There was Japanese earlier. But they've already taken the Japanese out of it, because the Japanese have relatively enough versus the amount of clientele that goes there. So it's not like it's tied to those marginal languages. They are well aware of this, the problem, and on the contrary, there is an exception. So again, from this point of view, it's a hole in your proposal, because it doesn't take this issue into account at all. So it's just to the edge. Otherwise, let's also name it - and you haven't named it entirely overall - which those countries have free trade in that European Union. You are to name only those through Mr President, who are not free to do so. But let's also name the ones that have it loose, where I think we should take an example. But it's not just Germany. It's, for example, the whole Benelux. It's Holland, it's Belgium. It's all Scandinavia. It's Switzerland. [[Members' reservations that Switzerland is not in the EU.]] Attention. I'm just saying, it's not in the EU, but of course it's also an advanced tourist country, which is why I'm talking about it. Top-of-the-line tourist country. I don't want to interfere with politics and political systems right now. Well, it still applies, and I'm stressing again, which is why your proposal is pretty much, like it's been filed before, or it's been thought through, you've probably been thinking about it before, so unfortunately, it doesn't go with the times. Because, even in those countries like Greece, Spain, Italy applies the two European Union directives on the free movement of persons and the recognition of qualifications. So our free trade guides are doing it without the qualification anyway. I'm stressing that. So your proposal actually goes against it completely illogically even. There. So, from where I'm sitting, it's probably the complaints that are there. So once again, we'd like to make a motion to dismiss. It's like, I think, a kind of proposal that I have a direct obligation to give as a person who's been in this business his whole life. It is also the opinion of the Association of Czech Travel Agencies, which represents more than 200 travel agencies on the Czech market. And if the motion to dismiss fails, I'd like to make a second motion, and that would be a motion to return the applicant for revision. And if he does not pass, then, of course, we have to work with Mr Patrik Nacher's amendment. But I think the proposal is, as I described it, so poorly written - and I don't mean it any pejoratively, I feel like I'm doing something positive about it. I can feel it there. But unfortunately, you just did not realize - and I am no longer addressing the Member directly, but the plaintiff as a whole - that the issue is much deeper than it seems. And that the proposal would fatally affect a number of segments that I don't think you've discussed with the Magistrate. I don't blame you. It was only a mistake that the experts were not involved, that only the guides association was invited, but not the guides' employers and those who actually import the millions of tourists, and these are travel agencies and travel agencies. And, of course, we see the issue deeper. From this point of view, I would like to say one last thing. You guys were talking about quality. I mean, there's no tour guide there. Most guides are hired by travel agencies. And a claim point is a travel agency for their services. So let's just say that again. If you buy spoiled milk in a convenience store or a broken sweater in a clothing store, you can't claim it to the manufacturer. You can't claim it to be a milk manufacturer. You go to the dealer and you file a complaint. Therefore, once again, the quality of the service is not guaranteed by a guide. Yes, that's in the minimum of cases, or in very few cases. But it's the city information center or the travel agency that the client paid for. This is also a complaint point under the Czech law. And they're keeping an eye on quality. So I just wanted to say that even this argument is a little bit wrong in practice. Not only in practice, but even according to Czech legislation. So these are my proposals, and I'm not really involved in politics, because this is really a matter of expertise. I think we should really consider these arguments. And I'm saying again, it's basically for a complete remodeling. I think the proposal - I said it in the internal negotiations. Okay, well, if there's a will to do anything about it, let's give everyone the ID cards so they can have their ID pinned to their clothes. That's why we're going to make a distinction between those who have a business license and pay taxes, that's what this is all about, and we're going to distinguish those who are really black. [[17,00 hours]] But I also have to take a firm stand against the argument of some guides, which means the Association of Guides, where only Prague guides are in the vast majority, not all, but in the overwhelming majority, that black business is equal to free trade. I hear this argument over and over again from their mouths. But that's not true. If we want to deal with the black guidebook, we can't solve it by making the free trade tied up because the black will continue. Black doesn't even get a business license, not even a test. And notaben, some more rehearsal. If you really want to smear the black guides, and that's why we're all, of course, tighter control. I myself have been taking the initiative in this and have visited in the past the Trades Office for Prague 1, the inspection department, on behalf of the association and we have asked them to do so - we have agreed to these checks, because none of us want a black guide. But they're the ones who don't have business clearance. And unfortunately, your proposal punishes the honest ones. That's the problem. Your proposal is punished by guides who have made a trade certificate, pay their taxes, and we will make it even more difficult for them. But we're not gonna catch the black ones, the umbrella guys who don't have the same trade license, and they're not gonna make it anyway, or I don't know, they're probably some crooks anyway. I guess the solution really is, if it's not rejected, just put the pancakes on the basis of the current legislation. Not to make it a tied business, of course, I've already described the reasons here, and that makes it essentially different from the legal one, and the whole thing can at least shift a little bit to everyone's satisfaction. Of course, there is the question of how many officials will be required to register at the Ministry. It's gonna cost those businessmen some extra money for a card. There's a thousand crowns in the proposal or how much. They're small businessmen, so it's not exactly ideal. But that's about what I'd say about that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u7	Thank you. There are two factual points. As the first Member of Parliament, Mr Brázdil. Before they arrive at the microphone, Mrs Malá apologizes for today's meeting between 18 and 19 o'clock on account of a work meeting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u8	Thank you for the floor. I have a simple question for the petitioner, Mrs. Marvanová. Mrs. Marvanová, please, what about the people who run the scooter here or rent scooters or bikes when they can't be segway anymore - how do you separate these people from them? They come, they live somewhere on Kampa, they come to Lennonův's wall, they say, "Here's Lennonův's wall - and they keep going. Will they have to have it, too, or will it be an exception, or isn't she even considering it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u9	Thank you. And next, Mr Michálek, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u10	Thank you for the floor. I must say that I quite agree with what Mr Okamura said at the end of his speech when he came to a conclusion on what this should look like. This means that a certain level of regulation is certainly desirable there. On the other hand, I also agree that tied trade is already quite a major intervention. I think there is a problem that the capital city of Prague points to. I saw so-called umbrellas or buses parked there on temporary signs in Old Town Square myself. And today, the city police and the department of commerce can't solve this problem effectively enough. In many cases, they are people who are imported from Africa, for example, and are there as guides. They're characterized by luring them to umbrellas. Not only is there the provision of poor quality services, but there are often violations of the market order, which is the regulation of the capital city of Prague, and in connection with this proposal we should ensure that the city police have sufficient tools to combat violations of the market order, so that it is effective even in cases where foreigners do so and therefore they can avoid various types of punishment. I am certainly in favour of this proposal being sent to second reading and there has been rather radically reworked so that there are no restrictive conditions for tied trade, on the other hand, to strengthen both the regulatory component and the simplification of control, and to strengthen sanctions in relation to violations of the market order that we see in Prague today basically every day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u11	Thank you for keeping time and we will move back to the debate. Mr Pour, Mr Janda will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would also like to respond to Act No. 455/1991 Coll., Trade Act, House Press No. 247. I am convinced as well as the authors of this amendment, the representativeship of the capital city of Prague, about the need to improve the quality of guide services. By removing the tourist guide's activities from the trade of free reporting, i.e. one for whose performance there is no need for professional education or practice, and its inclusion among trades bound, where such conditions are set, I see it as an important step for the professionalisation of guide services. The complaints of tourists and comments from representatives of the capital city of Prague across the political spectrum confirm that the legislation adopted more than six years ago, when the guideship became a free trade by changing the law, was not a good choice. It is known that the legislative change realized more than six years ago enabled a number of unqualified guides who give tourists inaccurate or even wrong interpretations to work on the territory of the capital city of Prague, thus not paying taxes yet. A high number of uncertified guides are talking about the intensity of the problem. According to the Association of Guides of the Czech Republic, these guides could be between 30 and 40 percent of the total number. So it's about 1,500 people. The current bill amendment is aimed at uncertified guides, especially guides offering free tours. Services from these guides are offered seemingly free of charge. At the end of the service, however, guides will collect money from participants, but it will not be taxed. If these guides are caught by the magistrates, the guides will inform them that they will put the money into the foundation they have established for this purpose. In the opinion of representatives of the Association of Guides of the Czech Republic, the proposed amendment will have a positive impact on the development of tourism, business environment and employment in the field. The support of the proposal was also added by representatives of the Czech Tourism Forum, which represents the strongest independent group in tourism in the Czech Republic. The Government of the Czech Republic also added a favourable opinion on the proposal. In relation to the other Member States of the European Union The representative of the capital city of Prague, based on the material prepared by the Parliamentary Institute of the Chamber of Deputies, noted that the tourism guide activity is regulated similarly in 13 Member States, as my previous speaker, Mr Dolínek, mentioned earlier. Guides from other countries of the European Union operating in the territory of the Czech Republic will be entitled to provide temporary tourist guide services on our territory to the extent of their business authorisation, but by adopting the proposed amendment, they would be obliged to notify the provision of MIT services in writing and to provide them with relevant evidence of recognition of professional qualifications. Here, in my opinion, it will be necessary to solve the system of recording these foreign guides. As has already been said here from the mouth of my previous speaker Mr Okamura through Mr President, there are, of course, certain negatives. I'll only mention some of them. It is clear that foreign guides will actually be favoured, and the main argument also points to restrictions on tourism in some regions of the Czech Republic, as there is already a shortage of local guides. However, the proposed amendment seems to me definitely necessary for improving the quality of tourist guides' activities, which will have a direct impact on the perception of the Czech Republic by tourists who will come to visit it. [[17.10 hours]] When talking to other Members, it is clear that some parameters of this amendment need to be adapted in the form of amendments. The fundamental amendment has already been read into the House of Patrik Nacher's system and will certainly introduce you to it today in its contribution. In any event, I recommend, as rapporteur for the club of the ANO movement, to release this press for second reading to committees for further discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u13	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Janda, Mr Nacher will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than ten years since the tournament has become not a tied but a free trade. In order to operate it, there is no need for professional examinations today, but only general conditions are sufficient. We now have a proposal from Prague's representatives that the guides should again fall into the trades bound. I perceive and partly understand the arguments of the petitioners. After all, we have heard their arguments thoroughly and several times on the subcommittee on tourism. I personally met with many parties, whether opposers or supporters. I therefore understand the arguments of the petitioners. They want to improve the level of guide services, eliminate the bad and overall help tourism in our country. Or, to say the least, to protect Czech cultural values, our cultural heritage and our reputation in the world. These arguments may sound logical at first listening, but I must say that this is not a very good proposal when I examine the proposed changes more carefully. I'm gonna ask myself a few questions. Is it about the problems of poor-quality guides of all regions in the Czech Republic, or is it the majestic problem of the capital, where umbrella workers interpret Prague Castle as Karlštejn? We can meet these guides around the House. Is the free market more important for us and the maximum possibility of allowing everyone to do business without obstacles, or the legacy of culture and image in the world? Will tied business solve the problem of poor, even bad guides? Are there any other, if we want, more compromise ways to solve the problem? The government's position is also evidence of how problematic and controversial this proposal is. Although the proposal was supported by the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Culture took a neutral stand for it. The Ministry of Industry and Trade, together with the Department of Compatibility of the Office of the Government, even made a negative statement. Yet the Government's Legislative Council has proposed to take a neutral position on the new regulation. In the end, the government had a positive attitude. Before I get to the specific reservations, let me just briefly remind you why the tour guide in 2008 became a free trade. It was then based on the abolition of unnecessary regulations. Simply put, the aim was to regulate only those activities where public interest is important, where people's health and so on can be involved. Indeed, the Government's Legislative Council also made specific reservations. It is possible that the proposal is contrary to European law, namely the 2006 Directive on services in the internal market. Under this legislation, there must be an urgent general interest for the proposed restriction, which is questionable in this case. For the requirement of professional competence, the recognition of qualifications acquired in another Member State of the European Union shall not be taken into account. The effective date, just the fifteenth day after the law, is too short to be met by businessmen. Existing guides would have a year to catch up on professional qualifications. However, the proposal does not include this transitional period for other staff performing some sort of guide activity. And then there's a reservation, let's say, philosophical. The proposal presents several options for the guides to work towards the required degree of expertise from the certificate of retraining from the accredited establishment to the specialised communication from the secondary, higher vocational or university. However, I am not sure that theoretical training is in itself a sufficient guarantee of the quality of guides. I'm not sure about that. However, I admit that the issue of regulation, and therefore whether a guide is to be free or tied, is not simple. Just look at different examples from other European countries. Somewhere they have more stringent regulation, such as in Austria, Croatia, Italy or Spain, even though the rules differ from the region in the last two countries mentioned, and then there are countries with a more liberal approach, such as Germany, Denmark or Britain, even though training is envisaged for our Western neighbour. They do not have legal regulation on the British islands, but there is a tourist guide institute. Bottom line, it's not a simple problem. However, last but not least because of the technical imperfections mentioned, I recommend that we consider very carefully whether the proposal of Prague representatives, according to which the guideship would once again become a tied activity, reject or accept and wait for possible amendments that could offer a more compromise solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u15	Thank you, too. I beg Mr Nacher, who is next in line for the debate. Mr Munzar will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, my dear government, my colleagues, confirm that the representative of the capital city of Prague has actually submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 25 July a proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., this is what you have ahead of you, moving guide activities in the field of tourism from a free trade between trades bound. A little bit of context here, because it's been ringing here all along - some things only concern Prague. Yes, it is. But even the Chamber of Deputies, as you can see, is based in Prague. And on the other hand, we can't be surprised, I was the representative here who voted in favour of it, that we had to deal with it in some way. If Prague does not have authorisation as a municipality, it is turning to the Chamber of Deputies. In this case, I would remind you to understand the context of what we're dealing with here, three other things. We solved the money exchange problem with the Exchange Act. If you recall correctly, that was a three-hour cancellation on the basis of my amendment. We will address the issue of taxi services by the Road Transport Act and short-term accommodation, especially with colleagues from the pirate side of the Act on local charges. And this is actually the fourth thing to solve, in particular, the problem of so-called umbrella workers, who are doing us a similar shame in the world as taxi drivers and dishonest currency exchangers. On the other hand, we found here during informal debates that it burns especially Prague and outside of Prague the regions do not feel it at all. So it is logical that their legal representatives here, that is to say, Members, do not see as such a problem as we in Prague perceive it. And on the other hand, the question is, wouldn't we, in turn, complicate the tournament somewhere else? So, with colleagues Kalous and Robert Králíček in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development, we decided to draw up an amendment, which you will find under No. 2066, whose aim is to resolve or limit, to limit umbrella workers on the one hand and on the other hand not to complicate the situation elsewhere, where they do not know this issue at all. Because I realize that moving a guide's activity between business ties could have some negative impact on people's access to business and, in particular, this would affect the profession outside our capital. [[17.20 hours]] In the amendment you will find and which, I believe, will pass through the first reading, because it is an important standard, you will find a return to business free again, with the proposal of issuing a Czech national guide card in two stages - first degree and second degree. As President Okamura suggested, a first-degree card would not require any fulfilment of qualifications, it would be more like registration. In the second degree, of course, there will already be a need to meet certain qualification assumptions, especially education, at least a secondary school with a degree in tourism, and at the same time there will be a list of such guides at the Ministry of Regional Development. We also assume that visually these cards will be marked differently, so then it will really be on those tourists to choose whether they want a first degree guide or a second degree guide with the education, and it will also be about certain prestige of this profession. We are doing this in order to meet the goal and in some way elegantly, effectively spin the umbrella, the so-called umbrella, but at the same time not limit some activities that are not only outside Prague, but also in Prague. Here we have, for example, we called it a segment of experience tourism, where, for example, in Prague there are projects where homeless people are accompanied by certain atypical places, and, of course, tourists are popular for the atypicality. Of course, they would have this, if it was a business tied up, they wouldn't have done it, and even this kind of experience tourism would have been very limited. The IDs, we're suggesting it, would be issued by the Ministry of Regional Development. It would be possible to request them electronically. Maybe in the future, it's open, if even the trade agencies, we'll see about that. The inspection would, of course, be from the trade office. For me, summarized, underlined, I said I'd be brief. I support you, and I therefore ask you to release this proposal from the Prague City Representation to second reading and to support our joint amendment, which addresses the objective and does not complicate the situation elsewhere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u17	And now, with priority rights, Minister Dostálová has signed up. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say briefly, because I really need to confirm here Mr Janda's words that the Ministry of Regional Development has supported a tied trade. We even wrote letters to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. On the other hand, it is also necessary to admit that, of course, we have been sitting with many actors, and tied trade would cause huge problems in the regions. That is why the Ministry of Regional Development supports and helped prepare a comprehensive amendment, which is actually a variant of legislative solution within the framework of the so-called. protected title, in the very form that guides in tourism should be shown in the performance of their activities by a guide placed in a visible place. It must also be realised that if this was a tied business and a proposal was accepted, which is now on the table, there is a really huge problem with de facto enforcement in practice, because in order to actually prove that these people have some unauthorized conduct, so all the signs of trade must be proved, that is, it must be clearly demonstrated that this is a systematic activity and that it is an activity that leads to a profit. On the contrary, it is precisely the distinctive designation of guides, where we have the first and second degree, that will make it much faster and more controllable. And that's what we're trying to do, so we can really get the black market that's just blooming here to prevent it. If we insist on tied trades, and we really as the Ministry have retreated from this proposal and we would really support leaving it free in business, but really mark the guides, so if we support today's binding business as proposed by the law, we will actually get into trouble anyway, because whoever wants to avoid this regulation will avoid it, because of course they will do so knowing that the authorities can never prove it to them. I just want to put in a good word for it, it's comprehensively prepared as a complex solution. If the law were to be rejected at first reading, there will be no point in adding the complex proposal. So I just think that we should move him to second reading, load a comprehensive proposal, so that it really begins to deal with guide activities, and fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u19	Thank you, too. Mr. Munzar, please. Please, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Apparently, Madam Secretary has read what I want to say here because she responded to it in advance. However, I will say exactly what I wanted to say here, because even with some of the things the Minister said, I will argue. With all due respect to the inhabitants of Prague, their representatives and their representatives here in the House, our great House, laws on the whole country cannot be done only according to Prague's problems. Prague is a capital city, it is in its own way specific, it is a very lucrative territory, an exclusive territory, it is a sought after area. It's a rich city, rich territory. And he's dealing with other problems than the rest of the Republic. It is here in the House a number of times when there is a problem in Prague, and we do not know at all, or we only have any idea of the impact of any proposals in this case on tourism throughout the Czech Republic. Here I am following up on the Minister, who said that tied trade would just cause problems in the regions. I understand the petitioners and their argument about the quality of services. But I think that we should, for example, allow municipalities, in their own capacity, to adjust certain things themselves by a local decree. But I do not agree with the original intention of the law to change the free trade to tied. Today, Patrik Nacher's amendment, which he prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development, is recorded in the system, which he introduced here a moment ago and which changes the proposal completely. But I do not want to vote today to support the bill, which is submitted, which is to be completely changed at other readings. Today we do not know the outcome of the legislative process in the House. Even this amendment, because it completely changes the law and the law would look completely new, it did not go through a commentary procedure, that is, we do not even know its real consequences. And the Secretary of State has been on the verge of letting go of a proposal that she herself has said is wrong and must be completely changed into a second reading so that we can amend it with an amendment. But we're bending the right legislative process a little bit. If there's a government bill, he should go through a classic commentary procedure and submit it to us as a separate bill. The comprehensive amendment, which changes the law from beginning to end, is actually a proposal for a new law. That's a formal reminder. The comments I have are material. And it's about the original proposal that we're going to vote on today. We are not deciding on a future amendment today. We're deciding today about the bill that's being recorded in the system today. Well, I have some substantive concerns about that. I understand the main argument of the petitioners that they are plagued by a number of guides black, those as they are called, umbrellas, who often do not speak Czech and offer especially to their countrymen black guide services. But really by tightening the requirements for legal guide activities, do we eliminate the guide for black? Those stowaways? Of course not. They'll keep doing it. The only person to whom we complicate this is the Czech people, such as students who want to do it legally, for example as a part-time job. It should be noted here that such conduct is certainly no longer in conflict with the law without regulation, and therefore it is still possible to do so today. I'm afraid it's not being sanctioned, let's say, because of the language barrier. [[17.30 hours]] The main change proposed by the law, we have heard it here several times, is the creation of a newly bound trade that has been a part of the free trades so far. And for me, it's kind of a classic effort to get exclusivity for some kind of activity. It is a classic effort by all the entrepreneurs that the world stands, in some way to divide, divide themselves, divide their product, their services from the relentless cycle of the free market. In this case, trying to limit entry into the sector, preferably by some official state intervention and demand, that is, by law. It's classic hiding behind a new mantra consumer protection, in this case the protection of tourists. In other words, it is the attempt of some to have a paternalistic approach of the state and the effort of the state to speak into everything through regulation. I don't think citizens are stupid, like for example. Because of the paternalistic role of the state, I do not consider consumers stupid as well. He knows very well what he wants to spend his money on. If a foreign tourist takes his countryman black, he won't know much about Prague. And I suppose that's what he's assuming. By regulating and new requirements for education, demand for cheap uncertified guides will not disappear without guaranteed quality information. I am of the opinion that the people who demand these services are typically young, teenagers, nor are they looking for the quality they are calling for. They just want to enjoy a cool walk in Prague. I think, therefore, that only a few people who seek services today from these corner guides are actually potential customers of those certified guides that we're supposed to be chasing by amending the law. I like to travel, I like to meet new places, for example, I am often in Italy, often in Rome. If you walk, colleagues and colleagues, around Colosseum, within a quarter of an hour dozens of such umbrella workers will offer you their services. Because they are clearly English native speakers, they are not Ital, so it is actually the same as in Prague. And Italy even has the same regulation that we are proposing. Does it help? It's not helping. I would never marry a guide like that because I wouldn't want to spend my money on it. But there are people willing to pay for it. Where there's demand, there's supply. And by this law, we do not eliminate the supply or demand. I will therefore vote in favour of returning the proposal for recasting, respectively. to dismiss this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u21	Good evening. I have two Members, Mr Patrik Nacher and Mr Jan Birke with factual remarks here. Please. [[Ambassador Birke is not responding.]] Well, all we have is Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u22	You see, I still have two minutes left. So I would respond to my colleague, Munzar, if I may, to clarify some things, so that something that is not so is not in the air. First of all, the proposal proposed by Hana Marvanová is the proposal of the representative of the capital city of Prague, which has been approved by the council, he cannot be changed. That's just the council's proposal, and it could change the council again, theoretically. But it's not that Hana Marvanová is going to decide that there could be something better on the way from Prague to the Chamber of Deputies, so she's going to redo it. That's just not possible. Then I'll just explain it to you. As far as the amendment is concerned, that is the parliamentary amendment, that is our parliamentary proposal, which we, together with our colleague, Mr Robert Králíček of Prague, and Vice-President of the Committee on Regional Development, etc., as the Committee is called, Adam Kalous, put together in cooperation with the Ministry. In my transparency, which the pirát might appreciate, I said it was in cooperation with the Ministry. So we don't get the impression that we've been doing paragrafo at night. But the thought, the vision came from us. And as for what the MP said, well, that someone would use a mist-talking or local or something that you said a tourist would take a colleague of his, I didn't get it at all. It's just that the principle here is that the tourists are being caught by someone who looks like a guide, who doesn't seem like a guide. Not at all. And he's a disgrace to the capital. He doesn't speak the language or the history. And we're trying to deal with this in some way. When you walk around Vienna or Salzburg, you find that such things are not possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u23	Thank you. So, before I give the floor to Mr Vojtěch Munzar, I will be making a request on behalf of the ODS. He's asking for a 60-minute recess at the club meeting from 6:00 p.m., so just so you can count on it like that. Mr Munzar and his point of order, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u24	Thank you. I would like to answer my colleague Patrik Nacher through you. First of all, I know, of course, that this is the design of the capital city of Prague and that it is not on the way to change it. But if the Minister here has spoken with any views and suggestions of the Ministry for Regional Development, respectively. Government, so I expect those proposals to be dug up or turned over, to say exactly, to transform into some government bill, that is, the amendment to go through the classic commentary process. Because today we vote in favour of the law that it is wrong, today we will vote in favour of the law and we know, and here it has been said several times that it is wrong, just to say that it will then change with the amendment, that I do not like the principle and approach. It's just to explain the first thing. Second thing. What was I explaining? They won't disappear, of course, the black guides. They're doing it black tonight, too. Of course it regulates, just by regulating those who do it legally. We're just gonna complicate their lives with this. But black guides don't really disappear by changing the law. Because the regulation doesn't fall on those black guides, but on those who do it legally today as a free trade. And according to the design of the capital city of Prague, they should pass the exams today and it should change into a tied business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u25	Thank you. With another factual remark, President Jakub Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u26	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to announce that it would be a good day tomorrow, I suppose the Prime Minister won't be here for a written interview, so it will start at nine, and to continue at 10 o'clock by discussing the news block behind Czech Television. I'd like to consult with the club presidents, but I haven't been able to fully trace some of them. In this way, I advise whether we could arrange for at least part of the debate on Czech Television to take place and finally approve the news on Czech Television, because it has already been discussed several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u27	Mr President, according to the text of the resolution in force, there is one thing I can say about this: if you agree with the other presidents of the parliamentary clubs tomorrow, of course this can be discussed. If no replies to the written interpelations have been submitted or are already discussed, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, the Chamber of Deputies shall discuss further items approved by the agenda in the remaining time. Thank you. And for the general debate, Mrs Matušovská. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u28	So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment here on the issue of guide work that has been being dealt with on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies for more than ten years. In fact, from the amendment to the Trade Act, which reassigned this activity from a free trade. That's actually where they started -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u29	Pardon me, Madame, I will interrupt you and ask the Chamber of Deputies, my fellow Members, for peace! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u30	Thank you. This actually started the problems that were raised here by the rapporteur and the rapporteur. In tourist-attractive locations, including urban reservations and sites registered by UNESCO on the list of world cultural and natural heritage, this activity, as has already been said here, is carried out by amateurs without the necessary knowledge. It is a foreigner residing in the Czech Republic based on tourist visas. [[The noise in the hall lasts!]] The point is not only in Prague, as has been said here, it is not only Prague, but I have reports from Kutná Hora, Olomouc, Pardubic and other important places in the Czech Republic that jobs are actually at risk. Our qualified graduates of schools focused on tourism -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u31	I'm really gonna ask for peace! Sorry, I have to interrupt you again. We have 20 minutes to go. So whoever wants to listen to the point, please create an atmosphere. We'll wait a little longer. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u32	In fact, jobs of qualified graduates of schools focused on tourism are at risk and are also disrupted by the system of professional guide education. This problem has been dealt with several times in the past on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, as well as on the Sub-Committee on Tourism and the participants of those meetings have agreed on a common plan to take the utmost hard action against these amateur guides who are trespassing. We just don't have control over what they tell tourists. The government approved the concept of state tourism policy in the Czech Republic for the period 2014 to 2020, in which the definition of tourism guide activity is included. That is why I would also like to support this bill, so that guide activities depend at least on professional competence, and because tourism is of great importance to the economy of the state. Many developed countries are therefore guarding and guaranteeing the quality of the guide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u33	Thank you. I'm always trying in vain to locate where the noise comes from, and now I'm going to locate it, of course. Yes. But during the speech of the honourable Member, I felt that everyone had their mouths closed, and yet there was a terrible noise. So you have a special gift. I think there are some ventriloquists here. [[Fun.]] So I'm really gonna ask for peace so we can move on. Mrs Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be extremely brief given the time. I, too, have noted all the reservations that have been raised here and, moreover, have also been heard at the work meetings that we have already attended. I have a problem with transferring this activity to a tied business. I am aware that the proposal presented by the amendment has many pitfalls with implications for both guides in the Czech Republic and tours abroad etc. However, the fact is that Prague has its problems at the moment with both quality and that apparently part of the guides are not paying taxes at all, and I think that this problem deserves to be addressed. I wanted to thank colleagues from YES who tabled a comprehensive amendment, and I would like to intercede for this press to move forward to the next reading, so that we do not return it or reject it, but this problem has been dealt with and reached a compromise that will benefit both the situation in Prague and other cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u35	Thank you. I'm gonna sing because we're gonna be getting close to the finals. I have no one enrolled in the general debate, which is why I am ending the general debate. I'll ask for any final words. Interested? Please, you can. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u36	honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to stress first of all that I have listened to the whole debate, individual arguments, and in Prague, I would like to say that if you show your willingness and let go of the law that Prague considers important, until further reading that there will be room for debate on all these matters. Therefore, I do not want to respond individually to individual reservations, I would just like to ask you to support this proposal. It's actually a brief proposal. If this were to go back to working on Prague, we would, without having a debate here on Parliament's floor, perhaps next time we would make a proposal that you would not like in anything. In my opinion, if you think that the guide activity needs some changes, some improvement, then support it with the fact that we will be ready to participate in the debate in Prague, with the fact that it is possible then in detailed reading, at second reading, to amend the proposal so that the objective pursued by Prague is met, that is to improve the guide activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u37	Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u38	Thank you. I would just like to point out, as Mr Nacher and others have already said, that there will be an amendment, that there will also be some others, certainly I am ready to take part as rapporteur, if the Committee on Education, Culture, etc. wishes to do so, at their meeting, or at the subcommittee, as one subcommittee has already discussed, or the subcommittee on Culture can also discuss it, but I think that it has been said from the discussion that this area should be addressed, and I think that there has already been so much work done on this, that it would be a shame not to give us a chance for this issue to be resolved in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u39	Thank you. At this point, we will proceed to the vote. We have a motion to return the motion for completion. So, in any event, the first vote will be to refer the motion back to the appellant. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of returning the motion... [[Checkout requirements.]] All right, I'm closing the vote. We consider this vote confusing. I'll check you all out. I've already called you in, so please log in with your I.D. cards. [[Technical problems.]] I'll check out again. Please sign in. [[Some Members have a problem with registration.]] Well, I'll try to check you out again. Sign in. Are you all logged in? [[Yes.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the recovery of the proposal submitted for completion. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 276 registered 143 Members and Members, for 30. The motion was denied. We will also vote on the motion to reject the proposal. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 277 registered 145 Members and Members, for 27, the proposal was rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. We'll take the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 278, 149 Members and Members have signed up for 144. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? Please, Mr. Janda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u40	Thank you. I propose that this be allocated to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u41	Is there another suggestion? I can't see. We will vote on the next committee - the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 279, registered as 149 Members of Parliament, for 144. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as another committee. That concludes the discussion of this point. Next item is... Yes, Mr. MP. Please, vote procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u42	I'm sorry. Thank you. I just want to report a mistake on the voting device. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-021-053.u43	Thank you. There. At this point, we will proceed to discussing the point.
