ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-004-009.u1	9. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the law on experts, experts' offices and expert institutes and the law on judicial interpreters and judicial translators /German press 74/1/ - second reading Therefore, under the authority of the Government, I will ask the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek again to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-004-009.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Basically, it is a change of some laws that are directly related to the two points that have just been negotiated, that is to say, the modification of experts and the modification of interpreters and translators. These are more or less technical adaptations to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Trade Act, the Act on Administrative Charges, the Act on Electronic Acts and the Authorized Conversion of Documents and the Act on Health Services. Maybe I'll just pause for two parts here for a little while. One of them is the promotion of electronisation in the performance of expert and translation and interpretation activities. This is an obligation for experts and interpreters, plus thus, including institutions and offices, to have a mandatory data box, which should simplify and reduce communication between them and public authorities, including courts. And maybe I will just pause briefly for the amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, where the amendment recommends that this establishment be dropped, and that is the new text of Section 127a, which therefore aims to prevent situations that are absolutely common and very complicated in practice today and delay the legal proceedings, and this is a situation where the court has to deal with more expert opinions that are contradictory to one another. The Government's proposal here assumes that, in principle, the assessments put forward by the parties, even if they were drawn up otherwise by someone who is an expert, would have the nature of documentary evidence, not the nature of an expert opinion, which, from our point of view, should make the proceedings slightly faster. On the other hand, I understand that this raises some concerns about equality between participants. I therefore submit that we have a more or less neutral position on the possible adaptation of this provision. We were inspired, if I'm not mistaken, by a Swiss arrangement that contains a similar rule, but it's not something that the proposal would stand and fall with. Otherwise, there are to a large extent technical adjustments. Again, I submit that we will agree with the overwhelming majority of the amendments in the case of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-004-009.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Health Committee. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 74/2 to 74/5. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Constitutional Committee Helena Válková to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-004-009.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I also thank the Minister for the neutral attitude of the Ministry of Justice. To refresh the atmosphere, because I know that this is probably not the most interesting standard for you, for most of you, so the greatest fight almost fell right here around the provisions of Section 127a of the Civil Code. I don't think - and finally managed to convince the Justice Department's legislation that we'd rather release it than have something that wouldn't allow us to do that if the first expert opinion was obviously weird, so that the participant wouldn't be able to order another expert opinion, and we know that it's often really about throats and goods. Indeed, because those expert opinions, especially in the field of valuation, also decide on the level of rates. If the regulation is not sufficiently proven, I am sorry, but I think we are still far from Switzerland, so I very much appreciate that there remains the adjustment that we won a few years ago, that even the participant has the right to submit an expert opinion, indeed also called an expert opinion, not merely as documentary evidence. The other one - I just want to point out that we managed to lift the pathologists from the chair in particular, who autopsy the deceased's body in cases of an autopsy, and in the Code of Criminal Procedure we reduced their number in the original government proposal to one. I think we've asked the wrong questions. The Minister of Health Vojtěch also responded to this with his amendment, but I must say that, ultimately, within the Constitutional Legal Committee, we also embodied this proposal, so the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee by the fact that it was not until autumn, while his proposal was introduced at some point in June, if I am not mistaken or at that time, it also covers the proposed change by him to return to the proven model of the two autopsies. So no amendment was necessary on my part. In general, resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee No. 93 of its meeting on 9 November recommends, in the sense of a comprehensive amendment, the Government's proposal to approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-004-009.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur of the constitutional law committee Helena Válková. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health Vít Kaňkovský to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and of any possible amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-004-009.u6	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. As with the previous press 72, the Health Committee also dealt with this press at two of its meetings, for the first time on 7 November at the 29th meeting when the Committee suspended the hearing, for the second time at the 30th meeting on 21 November when the Health Committee recommended the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government's proposal under House press 74. Otherwise, I refer to House Press 74/5, where the entire resolution is documented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-004-009.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have no written application yet. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I am opening the debate in detail. I don't even have a written application for that. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. It's not like that. I can therefore end the detailed debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. The rapporteurs are not interested either. No proposal has been made, I can end the second reading of this print 74, i.e. item 9. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. We've exhausted this block of Justice. Let's move on to another point. According to the approved agenda, it's a point.
