ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u1	The joint debate on points 37 and 38 /German press 201 and 211/ This is a proposal from Radka Maxová, František Kopřiva, Petr Dolínek, Vít Rakušan, Jiří Dolejš, Dominik Feri and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 89/2019 Coll., the Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws, House press 201, first reading, and the proposal from members of Marek Výborný, Pavel Bělobrádek, Marian Jurečka, Jan Bartošek, Pavla Golasowská, Aleš Juchelka and others for the issue of the Constitutional Act amending Resolution No. 2/1993 Coll., the Czech National Council Bureau on the Declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms as part of the Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic, as amended, the Parliament's press 211, first reading. [[Restlessness and noise in the Chamber]] We dealt with these Houses of Press on 14 November 2018 at the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the merged general debate. I ask that, at the rapporteur's table, she take her place as a group of plaintiffs, Mrs Pastuchová, and Mr Výborný Press 211, or one of the other plaintiffs, the Member is present. I remind you that the rapporteurs for the guarantee committees are Mr Marek Novák and Mrs Věra Procházková. Therefore, we will now continue the interrupted merged general debate. At this point, Vice-President Okamura has first applied for the floor. [[The President is waiting for the noise in the hall to decrease.]] I'll ask all the debaters who need to sort something out, I don't want to name it, I'm looking more at the left side of the hall. Hold on a little longer, Mr. Vice-President. We are certainly going to have a very interesting and long debate on this point. Well, I'm gonna ask for peace one more time. [[The bell.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, until ten years ago, we would have laughed heartily at the idea that marriage is not a union between a man and a woman. After all, a registered partnership was invented for gays and lesbians. And the public has been vehemently assured that this is the ultimate requirement of identical sex couples. We don't have anything against a registered partnership in the SPD. They're even one step further in the world. They already have a third sex. Although I confess I've never seen such a sex before. [[Laughing from the left side of the hall.]] And I don't think anyone's ever gonna see him because he just doesn't exist. However, the non-existent third sex has already been legalized in Germany. I wonder which of you Members who are proposing the annulment of marriage as a bond between a man and a woman wrote this proposal of yours, where in part five in the amendment to the Act on Specific Health Services, I read something about sexual identification disorder. Well, I'll say it full mouth. The annulment of marriage as a marriage between men and women here is proposed by members of the movement YES, ČSSD, KSČM, Pirates, TOP 09 and STAN. That's so the voters know exactly who's promoting such ideas. [[14.50 hours]] Few today dare to say, or even write, that when a man considers himself a woman or a woman as a man, when two men want to have children together, it is not normal. When men lack the ability to be a man, it's nothing to be ashamed of. I myself have a gay in the nearest family, and of course I've loved it my whole life, and he's a great, extraordinarily educated and completely irreplaceable person for me. But on the other hand, homosexuality is not something that we should elevate to a standard in terms of marriage between men and women. Let me give you an example from another keg. When a person is physically disabled, we do not pretend to be disabled, and we do not write a law in which to promote a disabled person to a third independent kind of person who is characterized by, for example, the fact that he cannot walk alone. By its laws from prehistoric to present and worldwide, society somehow codified the union of men and women and protected and favoured them. It wasn't for any ideological reasons. But regardless of the prevailing belief or ideology, the rulers and politicians were aware of the irrefutable fact that the fundamental pillar of the state was a family. That is, a family where a man and a woman bear and raise children. The Greek society even highlighted homosexual pederastic relationships as the peak of intellectual friendship, but it never tried to put it on the level of marriage. Regardless of sex and sexual preference, we are equal as citizens. On the other hand, if we want to survive as a nation and a society, we have to prefer traditional marriages, because although we like it or not, the classic family stabilizes society, because, among other things, it produces children. For example, high divorce rates are used as an argument against marriage. And instead of really doing our best to make marriage between men and women the most suitable thing for couples to do, to motivate men and women not to break up and produce together and raise children, we are destroying the exclusiveness of marriage. Two men or two women will never be mommy and daddy. It'll be two guys or two ladies, no matter what we write in the law. If we want to survive as a European civilization, we must preserve its values. We owe it to them that we're still here. Civilizations like the Greek or Roman ones mentioned disappeared the moment they stopped defending their values and traditions. On the other hand, their territory - Africa and Asia Minor, Turkey today - was dominated by Muslim barbarians who have been hard and ruthless in their values to this day. It is a big mistake to think that if we give up all our European heritage, we will survive. A nation that doesn't defend itself is defeated. That is true for thousands of years and will always be true. So, for the SPD movement, I make it clear that we will not support the bill to abolish marriage as an exclusive bond between a man and a woman. In contrast to the proposal proposed by the marriage of the same sex couples, however, the proposal for a law to establish a marriage as a union between a man and a woman who is also debating here is really necessary, as it turns out that even as apparent of course as a marriage of a man and a woman needs protection at a constitutional level. Looking at the parties that propose to change the concept of marriage here, and I would rename them as members of the ANO, CSSD, KSČM, Pirates, TOP 09 and STAN, so unlike those parties that want to say that marriage is not a union of men and women, so I must say that they are parties where there are often pro-migration and tolerant politicians to Islam. So I'd just like to point out to you, dear translators, that, oddly enough, your opinion is not shared by Muslim immigrants and is not actually shared by any culture on the entire planet. Only Euro-American multiculturalists have crazy ideas of remelting and declassifying marriages. Thank you for your attention. And I think the SPD position is quite clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u3	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Černochová is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to convey through you a request that my friends from the lesbian and gay community have turned to me. Don't call lesbians lesbians. They're not lesbians. They're lesbians. Just like gay people aren't gay, Mr. Okamura. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u5	Thank you. At this point, Mr Bauer is the first to be entered into the debate. I'm sorry. Mr Výborný for the appellants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u6	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, we are opening up a continuation of the debate, among other things, over the Houses press 211, which is an amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Allow me to briefly present this continuation as the promoter. The aim of the proposal is to complement the protection of the family at the level of constitutional order, as enshrined in Article 32 of the Fourth Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, to protect one of the fundamental building elements of a complete family, namely the marriage of men and women. The need to give special recognition and constitutional protection to the marriage union of a man and woman as one of the cornerstones of society in today's turbulent times, in which we meet with ubiquitous efforts to relativize and tear down patterns, no matter how well proven, more recent than ever. It is therefore most desirable that the true nature, meaning and importance of this union reflect the document that anchors the highest values on which our society and our legal order stand. This document is precisely the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. This is clearly a value debate. And here it has to be said that I and KDU-ČSL and a group of other translators clearly, clearly, clearly, but also politely and culturedly side with stable families built and defined as dad, mom and kids. We reject relativization of the value of marriage and the idea that it could be a union of anyone. Unfortunately, reality today does not give everyone happiness in the form of a complete family and a happy marriage. If a family is living in today's world, and the Czech Republic, apart from a crisis and erosion, the role of the state is not to resign, but to support it more and more intensively. To this end, this amendment, too, aims to create positive patterns. The marriage of a man and a woman typically has the potential to fulfill all the main functions of a family, especially to bring the next generation into the world and raise it in irreplaceable, irreplaceable and complementary to the mother and father's love and pattern. The institution of marriage of a man and a woman who has proven itself in an extraordinary and long-term way throughout history deserves the highest protection and respect, not arbitrary experiments and attempts to improve and transform it according to current trends. We repeatedly say in public appearances that marriage is not a right that its purpose is not to treat the relationship of two people who love each other. The state is not supposed to regulate emotional emotional relationships. It is everyone's completely free decision about who they live with in partnership. It may not only be two women, two men, but it may also be two sisters who take care of their old mother or father. Marriage, however, is a unique community of men and women with its irreplaceable value. It's a gift and a mission. We are not debating minority rights. We're debating values. In that sense, we're not attacking anyone. We reject the homophobic nature and all that. And that's because we value every human being. We respect the various forms of human coexistence and their value, but we defend the marriage union, which is the basis of a traditional stable family with all its mission. One tweet was very nice - I quote: "I've been married to a man, always one, the same, for 27 years. We have three kids and they're all ours. I know, I'm a rebel." End of quote. This must not, ladies and gentlemen, become the norm in our society. [[15.00 hours]] At the same time, it should be recalled that the debate is also not about the rights of children and the rights of children. A child, a human life, is a gift. And as such, it must not become a subject of trade, order, social engineering or law-absorbed. We refuse to move towards a hedonist society where no one is denied anything at all, and under the term "right to" everything is hidden. The child is not entitled or entitled. He is the fruit of the husband's love for one another, and we apply to keep it that way. But at the same time, let us face it: today's crisis is not really caused by homosexual couples. It would be cheap and dishonest to blame anyone. It's our fault, us, married couples and families. By their own irresponsibleness, they don't care about family relationships, their emphasis on claim mentality. The whole debate is therefore a thrown glove to us, who defend the best concept of marriage and family, as well as to us legislators, to support the family, role and position of mothers, as well as the role of fathers in raising children. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular today, let me conclude by thanking all those who have been actively involved in supporting the petition of the Alliance for Family, which is a public voice to support our proposal for constitutional protection of marriage as a union between men and women. To date 103 121 citizens of the Czech Republic have signed it. Petitional law is an essential sign of the expression of its civil and, in this case, of its value. Of course, this does not change the factual content and justification of the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you in advance for continuing the civilised and factual debate here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u7	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak for the plaintiff. If not, then... Or does Mrs Pastuchová want to speak for the plaintiff? In that case, I ask the rapporteurs whether there is an interest in the performance. Mrs Procházková, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u8	Good afternoon, everyone. The proposed change is clearly a response to the current efforts to open the institution of marriage to same-sex persons. It follows from the content of the explanatory memorandum that the proposed amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, hereinafter referred to as the Charter, is, among other things, that a legally recognized marriage must consist of a union between one man and one woman. On the contrary, by its resolution of 22 June 2018, number 414 agreed with the draft law aimed at opening the constitution of marriage to persons of the same sex, Parliament's press 201. The Government believes that any amendment to the Charter must be treated with restraint. The catalogue of rights and freedoms enshrined in the Charter should not be used to block the rights of certain groups. The Government also states that, in its view, the aforementioned objective, namely that a legally recognized marriage must consist of only one man and one woman's union, nor will it be achieved by establishing a general declaration in the Charter. The Government states that from a formal point of view, this should not be about changing the resolution of the Czech National Council Bureau, but it should be about changing the Charter itself. Moreover, the proposal also shows other legislative technical deficiencies. That is why the government's position is disapproval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u9	Thank you. Mrs Pastuchová for the plaintiff for the first press. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought we would not repeat this, when it has already been mentioned, however, by means of the Excellent colleague, I would also like to clarify our proposed law here. Let me just take a short look at why we're promoting this change. There are a number of differences between marriage and a registered partnership, and we don't have to talk about that. I'll read some differences from the table you had in the explanatory note. Symbolic differences, married couples - registered partners. Marriage is the cornerstone of family law. The registered partnership is an administrative act. Fiancé can marry on almost any matrix, registered partners only at 14 designated offices. Marriage - they have two witnesses. Registered partnership - no witnesses. Marriage - a statement is made before the mayor, deputy mayor or appointed member of the council. Registered partnership only in front of a registrar or a registrar. Married couples get relatives whose relationship the law recognizes. Registered partnership - law e.g. Brother-in-laws and sisters-in-laws don't recognize registered partners. Practically: Marriage - work leave two days for the wedding. Registered partnership - not regulated in the law. Marriage - the spouse's common property is automatically created, his existence is lessened by the life of husbands who do not have to give themselves full power to everything. It also means that a husband may be more involved in inheritance than a registered partner. Furthermore, the common property is more favourable from the point of view of taxes. Registered partnership - does not arise, partners are only mutual co-owners, there is no adjustment to settlement of assets in the event of a relationship breakup. Husbands - when they marry, their fiancees can determine what common surnames they will use. Registered partnership - cannot be requested additionally after registration. Husbands are entitled to a widow's and widow's pension. They don't have registered. Husbands - after the death of the husband passes on to the spouse the entitlement to various benefits. Registered partnership - does not pass. And now perhaps the most important thing - in relation to children. Husbands - a husband can bring a second husband's child e.g. from a previous relationship. Registered partnership - not possible. Husbands can adopt a child from an institution together. Registered - not possible. Husbands can be foster parents together. Registered - not possible. The condition of divorce in spouses is the regulation of the relationship with children. Registered partnership - not regulated; a partner who is not a biological parent does not automatically have the opportunity to see children anymore and does not have the obligation to pay maintenance. Marriage - the deceased's children are his legal heirs and, at the same time, unforgettable heirs. Registered - children are not legally able to inherit the partners who raise them, but are not legally recognized parents. And last of all, children are entitled to an orphan's pension from their parents in marriage. And registered - children do not have this right in relation to a partner who is not a biological parent. So I guess this is where I gave you the basic differences. I could talk further, but I think we've already heard it from my colleague and co-president Radka Maxová. I just wanted to remind you of the reasons for which we have also presented this law. And I'm sure we'll hear a lot of other opinions. But from my point of view, even as chairman of the Committee on Family and Equal Opportunities - a child who grows up in a family of registered partners is unfairly disadvantaged and finds himself in a vacuum and legal uncertainty compared to a child growing up in a family of spouses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u11	Thank you. Mr Plzák, then Mr Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u12	Good afternoon, thank you for your attention, Mr President, fellow Members. I'm reacting with a factual remark to the table that's been listed here. There was one significant difference between marriage and registered partnership. And very important. Husbands can produce offspring together, registered partners cannot produce offspring. What are we gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u13	Thank you. Another factual one, Mr. Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u14	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to take a short look at the list that was made here. It's all true. Yes. But the question of where registered couples are supposed to enter into a registered partnership, whether they should be entitled to two days' leave, the question of solving widow's pensions, the question of solving a common fortune, all that, ladies and gentlemen, was the content of the proposal put forward by my honored colleague Patrik Nacher, who is sitting there in the bench, and when he tried something similar, he met literally with the bullying of the LGBT community, because it has clearly shown that this is not what we are trying to do here. So I'm a little disappointed by this approach. He may talk about it himself, because he also publicly said that he wanted to prepare something like this, and it turned out that this was not the aim of what the other group of Members put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u15	Thank you. Let me read one additional apology. Mrs Maxová apologizes from 15.30 to 16.00 for work reasons. There is one more factual point, Mr Kopřiva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would perhaps just like to put the fact that not necessarily all heterosexual couples can have children and not all of them. And we don't really forbid them to marry. On the other hand, I'd like the laws to match reality. And the reality is that the so-called rainbow families exist. There are the same sexual couples that children raise, those children want to be raised in these families. It happens that the partners have a child from a previous marriage. Or maybe one of them will get the baby, which is already possible. Anyway, the point of the petitioners of the amendment to the Civil Code is that the actual institution of marriage, which the state guarantees some rights and enforces some responsibilities for those people who decide to live together, so that this institute can be applied to all citizens without distinction. Just as we all pay the same taxes, we want the same sex couples to have to comply with the same obligations and have the same rights, simply because such families already exist. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u17	Thank you for keeping time. But I have two more facts. And as the first Mr Špičák, then Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me express myself as a practicing doctor, that is, a person who has an absolutely extraordinary authentic insight into human society. So, first of all, they're patients who consult the practicing doctor completely about everything - their financial problems, their partner problems, their sexual orientation. Furthermore, I would not want to speculate about the different psychology of individual marriages, but it is the fact that basically gay people are heading, like women, still traditionally heading to certain jobs, as gay people are going to certain jobs, so we see them, for example, more and more in the sister area today. We usually have sisters like sisters and sisters like gay men. And I have to say that I am in contact with them daily, and I could say that I am essentially confronting this issue, but that would not be right. That's not an issue for me. I am completely intrigued by this fact, and I do not find fundamental problems that would justify any difference in the same sex and heterosexual union. It is quite clear - and the words of the vast majority of psychologists and psychiatrists, including, for example, profesor Höschl - that gays are endowed with the same emotional ability, the same constant feeling and ability to build a union, which is essentially of equal quality, is not completely different from a heterosexual union. And the fact that two identical sexes are not able to produce children, I do not question that here, however, they are able to raise these children and I would very much like the orphanage issues to be opened for these quality marriages, and they could be raised and raised at exactly the same level as heterosexual marriages. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u19	Another factual point, Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to Mr Plzák's speech, who asked what we would do about it when identical sex couples cannot produce offspring. And so I answer him. There is nothing we can do about it, but what we can do - we can indulge those who cannot conceive those children so that they can either adopt them or adopt them. First of all. They demand certain rights, but they also demand - or, respectively, they are willing to fulfil certain obligations, and I think that is correct. It is often heard about what a traditional family is. The Civil Code says that marriage is a marriage of a man and a woman, and it is a lasting union, but we know from experience that 50 percent of marriage is falling apart. And I would like to respond to that, because I think that these questions, whether to produce, not to produce or similar, I respond personally. Personally as a mother, it worked out there because the daughter found a partner, but also as a potential grandmother. And I'd like it if something like this happened that my grandchild would find a gender partner or partner to have the same rights, but also the same responsibilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u21	Thank you. This has exhausted factual remarks for the moment, and those who are enrolled in the proper debate are on the agenda. Mr. Bauer is the first to be written there. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u22	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen. We have a merged debate, and I have already made a comprehensive statement to the previous Parliamentary press in the first reading that took place here a long time ago, and I would just like to refresh your memory that I proposed rejection at first reading. I also consider it polite to comment briefly on House Press 211, which we have opened here today. It is true that, in the course of the previous discussion, I have also basically expressed my opinion on the proposal for a legislative grounding of marriage as a bond between a man and a woman. In short, in my opinion, LGBT persons have the right to their dignity as any other person and also to equal treatment. It is absolutely obvious, correct and undoubtedly undisputed. However, I do not think that activists will gain respect by attacking the very nature of family and marriage and mixing the concepts of equality and equality. As I said earlier, they can achieve the exact opposite of what they are seeking and unfortunately lose what they have already gained in the result. And I'll admit, I'm sure those rights aren't enough. I would also like to say that there are countries that explicitly state in their constitution that marriage is a union between a man and a woman and that the foundation of society is a family. I actually did the job with my coworkers, and so allow me only at random some examples: "Marriage is based on the free consent of a man and woman," says Article 51 of the Ukrainian Constitution. "Marriage is a voluntary union between a man and a woman," says article 46 of the Bulgarian Constitution. "A man and a woman who have reached the age at which they are fit to marry have the right to marry freely and to start a family," says Article 35 of the Armenian Constitution. [[15.20 hours]] "Marriage is a marriage of a man and a woman', among other things contained in Article 61 of the Croatian Constitution. "The state protects and supports marriage, a bond between a man and a woman." It is also in Article 110 of the Croatian Constitution. "Marriage may be established only with the mutual consent of both sexes," says Article 24 of the Constitution of Japan. On the other hand, Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a union between men and women, including in Article L of the Hungarian Constitution. "Marriage is based on the free consent of a man and woman," says Article 62 of the Serbian Constitution. "Marriage, being a union of men and women, as well as family, motherhood and parenthood are protected and enjoy the care of the Republic of Poland," says, among other things, Article 18 of the Polish Constitution. "The men and women who have reached the age at which they are fit to marry have the right to marry and start a family," says, among other things, Article 12 of the British Human Rights Act. Finally, there is no exception to Slovakia, where Article 41 of the Slovak Constitution explicitly states that "marriage is the only bond between a man and a woman. The Slovak Republic protects marriage in a versatile manner and helps its good." Dear ladies and gentlemen, to the very end, why I did the work and why I will introduce you to these articles of the various constitutions of the states. That marriage is the foundation of the family and that marriage is the union of a man and a woman, I have always considered it so obvious that the sun will rise in the morning and the evening will set again, and therefore I would never have thought of writing something so obvious into the Constitution of the Czech Republic. However, if there are attempts to enforce something else, then there is no choice but to anchor something so obvious in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms that marriage is a union between a man and a woman. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u23	Thank you. Next up, Mr Radek Rozvoral is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, our SPD movement will take a favourable position on the proposal for a constitutional law to amend Resolution No. 2/1993 Coll., Bureau of the Czech National Council on the Declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms as part of the Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic, as amended. The SPD movement agrees with the proposal and believes that we must preserve the values of the traditional family in our country for future generations as well. We are in favour of maintaining the current legal definition of marriage as a legal and social institution that forms a legislative basis for families, and it is concluded between men and women who know each other's health. Marriage is therefore a voluntary, basically permanent cohabitation of two persons of different sexes, which is established in a legal way, namely by marriage. Its main purpose is according to the law of establishing a family, proper education of children in natural family and natural values, i.e. biological and educational functions and mutual assistance and support. Our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy is a political movement that promotes fundamental constitutional and legislative changes aimed at defending freedom and democracy in the Czech Republic. As the name of our movement implies, we support that each citizen can express his or her opinion without subsequent sanctions, and therefore we have nothing against the sexual orientation of each and every one of us. For this reason, for example, we respected the Prague Pride festival with gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender theme, which took place the second week of August last year in Prague and whose topic was family. The organizers of this event aimed at informing as many citizens as possible that homosexuals should have the same marital rights and obligations as a traditional family, including the right to have children. All members of our SPD movement do not take this view away from them and respect it. At the same time, however, we say that we will only support traditional families, who are the only ones who can preserve the population, and thus traditions, customs, and nation itself. Working-class traditional families who properly raise children are the basis for our state and guarantee that our citizens will have a good life here in the future. The proposed proposal will therefore support our SPD movement, as we see in it an instrument that strengthens and strengthens the marriage of a man and a woman who should be protected by a constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u25	Thank you. Now I've been tampering with the log-in list somehow. There was an envoy, I remember, and now there is a colleague named Juchelka, but before him was certainly Mrs Jarošová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u26	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Right here in the House, there is a legal fight against the family. The institution of the family is being violated as such by trying to legalize the same-sex marriages. I certainly don't want to reduce or somehow assess the human qualities of lesbians and gays, but I can't put their ties on the same level as my family. They are unable to fulfill its mission by bringing children into the world and instilling in them the importance of the male and female factor for their balanced development. If something's called marriage, it's probably not meant for a man or a man or a woman or a woman. The kindergarten is also not intended for pensioners and football field for hockey players. I can't believe someone doesn't understand these simple things or doesn't understand them. This isn't about society's progress, it's about its decay. Today, you may legalize gay marriages. So I'm asking, who's next? Bisexuals and marriages in threes, in fours? Pedophiles and marriages with children? Zoophiles and animal marriages? And other and other sexual differences, to make it fair. If you want to be fair, respectable government and others who have declared a fight against the family, you would have to make it possible to marry people with all the above mentioned and not mentioned sexual differences so that we can all be equal. What do you think? It's called a salami method: offer a finger and they'll bite off your hand. According to the FTV Prima news survey, Čech are against homosexual marriages, on the contrary, only 11 percent of Czech society is involved. And all of us here have been elected by our citizens, we have been paid from their taxes, so I rightly assume that we will listen and vote in their votes. Perhaps our citizens would be interested to know who signed everything under this pasquila. It is a government that has given a favourable opinion. I quote: "The Government discussed and assessed the parliamentary bill at its meeting on 22 June 2018 and agreed to this draft law." For what reason, she hasn't mentioned it. Usually, the government likes to state the reasons for its approval, disagreements and neutral attitudes. Perhaps our government was under pressure from various nonprofits or from different lobby groups, which is probably best known by the government itself. I would like to be informed here and the citizens of the reason for their consent. Who else supports this pasquil? They are some members of the ANO movement, perhaps to unite their positions with those of the government, members of the Pirates, which does not surprise me at all, some ČSSD Members, one member of the STAN movement and one of the Communists and MEPs for the TOP 09 - I do not particularly understand because they claim conservative values. And what can be more conservative than the traditional concept of family? So I and certainly citizens are very interested in the government's attitude in the event of equalisation of other sexual differences. On the contrary, as far as constitutional protection of marriage is concerned, the Government has taken a disagreeable position on this proposal. And one of the reasons? They say the goal is to open up an institute of marriage to same-sex persons. Well, congratulations, and I'm glad that the government doesn't hide its position leading to the collapse of a traditional family and it doesn't even try. [[15.30 hours]] I would like to point out to all those involved in this dismantling that the SPD will always fight these efforts, speak up and explain what these circles are about. It is no less than to decompose our society, destroy its foundations and bonds that make it so strong. Marriage is an institute that has been accompanying mankind practically from the very beginning of its being, from the very beginning it was made up of a man and a woman and no one has ever thought of anything better. I'm sorry, our government seems to think that it has come with innovation, and this government is probably under a lot of pressure from various lobbies and political non-profit institutions that are so generously subsidized, and it does not have the courage to cut them off. But our government isn't just an institution, it's mostly ordinary people who were conceived by a man and a woman in a traditional family, and if I'm wrong, let them correct me. Perhaps if I asked them individually and privately about their views on gay marriage, they would speak differently. Marriage is not only a combination of people who are well together, but above all a desire to bring common offspring into the world, and this cannot be done with the best will in the same sex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u27	I thank you, and I immediately thought there would be a point of fact, and there will be! So first, Mrs Šlechtová and Mr Dolejš will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u28	Mr President, dear House, guests, I would like to respond to the words of the Member of the previous speaker. Three things. If this hall continues to hear similar speeches, I think the amendment to the Civil Code will pass perfectly. We haven't heard and heard such a speech in the quotation marks in a long time. Next thing. Since the humiliation of the LGBT community to paedophiles and zoophiles has actually been compared here, I would like to ask the honourable Member through the President to forgive you in the Chamber of Parliament of this country. For one thing, you have offended many people in this country, but you have offended me, too, because I belong in that community. I will wait for the Member to listen, Mr President... And one last thing. If the SPD fights Islam, if the SPD fights everything you think isn't traditional, I think you might fall apart soon, because our country is liberal. And by approving or sending this novel to the first reading, we certainly do not violate any traditions or rights of traditional families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u29	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. We will continue with factual remarks. Mr. Jiří Dolejš has a point of fact, Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u30	As they say, quite sine ira, i.e. without hatred. I wouldn't say it was a tedious speech, it reminded me more of Monsignor Piťha. You know, we live in the 21st century, and I think that going to the 21st century can individually make each of us some complexity, some problems, so let's be tolerant. On the other hand, let us look around the world and see that tolerance to diversified coexistence is widespread in the world. And as for our polls, let's be exact. She's a different click campaign in different media starting Parliamentary leaves and TV Barrandov, for example, may turn out to be different, but research agencies do it professionally and with some oscillation, the support of this marriage dominates there. If I remember correctly, about 1.8 million is definitely for and around 3.4 million is more for. So these people are basically tolerant, and these chosen groups are minority. Let's discuss it, let's do the second reading, there may be some adjustments, but I'd leave the militant behind the door of this honorable hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Tomáš Martínek, will prepare Marek Výborný. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u32	Thank you for the floor. I also want to comment on those surveys that were mentioned here at the previous speaker's. Prima television actually broadcasts several reports in the last few days. She referred to SANEP and Phoenix Research surveys, stating, for example, in the Sunday report that support for the Pirates voters is about 5%, but that is a lie, because when she published the survey yesterday, from which she was based, the number was several times higher. The 5% was on another line with the SPD voters, so I guess the editors missed it, but it was de facto misleading information that was published as truth within objectivity. So, really, on those surveys, when he refers to the SAPEP and Phoenix Research polls, which are not considered by experts as quality agencies, he completely leaves out CVVM surveys from 2018 or Mediana from 2018, where, for the long term, the public support for an equal marriage for everyone is above 60% of the threshold. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u33	Thank you for keeping time. I'm tolerance alone. I know you respond in factual remarks, but public opinion polls are not the subject of negotiations. We have another subject. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. You took it from my mouth. I'd like to ask you, let's get back to the matter. It's true here what Winston Churchill said: I only believe in a survey I forged myself. I think if we look historically over the past six months, the polls are actually coming out completely ambiguously. But what I want to say. I don't think either side is talking here based on opinion polls. For us, marriage will remain a union of men and women, and we don't need any referendums, no polls, no surveys, because we're talking about values, and that's just how it is. So I'd like you to get back to the point. And maybe one more thing. Something other than opinion polls is the weight of a petitioner's voice. Here I see my colleague, Mrs Válková, Chairwoman of the Petition Committee, who could give an expert lecture on this here. But once again, the petition to support marriage as a union between a man and a woman has signed over 103,000 people to date. And that is also the public's voice, and these are the people who signed with the knowledge of what they were signing. And by the way, based on a campaign that didn't cost 13 million or 11 million like the other side, but some 160 grand, not a penny, not a penny of public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u35	I also thank you for keeping time. We will return to a proper debate. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, duly enrolled in the debate, will be prepared by Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, honourable guests, my fellow Members here present a proposal for an amendment to the Civil Code, which aims at the law of the same-sex marriage. As many of you know about me, I am well aware that I am not a fan of this proposal. It is not because I want to step on someone's happiness, but because this proposal is not only about changing three words in one paragraph, but it means changing fundamental, social, with far-reaching consequences. In our vote, in fact, it is not about removing some minorities in the civil legal system, but about interfering with the legislator's will by weakening the recognition of the importance of biological parenting in the establishment of a family. By adopting the proposal, the meaning of the word marriage would not be extended but lost. The purpose of this word marriage would distance itself from reality and draw close to a certain desire. But before we begin to redefine the concepts that have long and justified meant something, we should be careful if we are not crashing instead of building with the seemingly small revolutionary gesture. We should make sure that our actions do not increase the gap between vocabulary and reality. Activists call for freedom and equality, but freedom defined at the expense of reality does not mean greater freedom but deception. And nothing can be built on it. Air locks built with the best intention simply disappear. The reality and the real nature of the concept of marriage, even if we empty it by moving this proposal further in the legislative process, will not change. Indeed, even the most powerful activist cannot do anything against natural facts. However, we will be in danger of living increasingly in ideological unrealistic terms. The proposed proposal is sometimes summarized in popular, simple marketing passwords: the same love, the same rights or most will not hurt, it will help the minority. These advertising slogans are trying to force us legislators to think that changes to the law do not change society. But we know that it is different that laws shape the consciousness and conscience of individuals and the entire public and have a long-term effect. We are witnessing a situation in which other Overtonův windows are merely opening. [[15.40 hours]] Remember? It started with a registered partnership. In the past period, there was a request for at least partial adoption of children from previous, most heterosexual relationships. By the way, I found a report in the ČTK archive from February 19, 2001, from which I quote: "If the proposal for a registered partnership is accepted, homosexuals will close it in front of the mayor, mayor or another member of the municipal council in the presence of two witnesses. There is no way this is a wedding because the wedding is part of the marriage institute," said the Chairman of the Gay Initiative, Jiří Hromada. And he goes on to say: "Already at the beginning we clearly say that we do not claim to adopt children. The claims that we are trying to do this lie with us by our opponents." End of quote. In the explanatory report to our colleagues, the initiative We have justly written that they are seeking the same dignity and respect that heterosexual couples are currently enjoying. But it is an impossible request. The same level of legal protection of homosexual marriage simply cannot be achieved because it meets, virtually. does not meet the definition of marriage as such. Yes, it is a permanent union, but there is no reproductive potential. To me, marriage is a union of men and women, a symbol of the foundation of the society in which we live. The state of marriage favors not some emotional relationship between two people, but because it is the best environment for the birth and upbringing of children guaranteeing stability. A family based on a marriage vow of loyalty to a man and woman is a building block of the nation's future, and we must do everything we can to preserve it. A refinishment of the concept of marriage would mean the loss of this symbol. In the media, this fact is repeatedly acknowledged by lobbyists who have proposed amendments. This group of people resents the fact that another achieves a stable union of men and women of symbolism, which other relationships, even strictly speaking, others of the closest ones, mean family, simply do not have. We will abuse the old words for new realities, and what will happen will not be the share of another group of residents in the good of marriage, but the dilution of the meaning of this word. Moving the boundaries of the concept can then be almost arbitrary. As Members, we are being blackmailed by the argument that children of homosexual tutors suffer because they are not in the case of e.g. the death of one biological parent legally binding enough to the other partner. But is it necessary to put on the table a thousand - year - old concept of marriage, gut it, and fill it with new meaning? Why do activists care so much about this word? I guess we can all answer each other. I implied it a while ago. We are sensitive to symbols, gestures, our hearts tremble at the celebrations of the 100th anniversary of the Republic, the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Iron Curtain, the takeover of state honors, the fate of people on the other side of the world touches us. For example, we perceive symbolic photographs of the French President, when he grabs the German Chancellor's shoulder and opens the door for her. Everything's affecting us. What I mentioned was actually pretty innocent. But a change in symbolism like a marriage based on one man's surrender to one woman will really mean a profound coup. Whoever votes in favour of same-sex marriage approves the refinition of parenthood. It will be necessary to amend the Matrix Act as it will be discriminatory. The matrices contain as homophobic boxes as father and mother. It will be necessary to replace one parent and two parents, as we just learned from France a few days ago. I keep hearing the argument that this proposal won't hurt anyone. Therefore, my fellow Members, I would like to share with you one particular hypothetical example. Very often we hear a debate... [[Voices from the diaper.]] Yes, a specific example. [[With laughter.]] But it can be hypothetical, too, you're right. We often hear a debate about children's homes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u37	Calm down, please. And if... Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. Please don't yell at each other from the benches. Especially the one who's given the floor. If you have a different subject than that which is the subject of our negotiations, please in the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u38	In a children's home, for example. there is a legally free child, i.e. without legal parents. Who is the state to entrust this child to for adoption? This child was requested by heterosexual and homosexual husbands. Who is to be chosen by the State when in the other criteria both pairs are identical. Education, wealth, et cetera. How will the court stand up to this when, even on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, we have confirmed that for the best interest of the child, the family consisting of a man and a woman, but at the same time there will be a threat of an anti-discrimination lawsuit? Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is not only about changing three words. If this proposal passes, it will have far-reaching consequences for our country and its future. Above all, it will have far-reaching consequences for children who are yet to be born or born and who have not yet been qualified to ask their opinion. Laws must be made with respect to all members of society, not only with regard to the desires of adults. Therefore, let us not break down the concept of marriage, preserve its boundaries, contours, rather break down barriers between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u39	I thank Mr Aleš Juchelek. We have Mrs Jana Pastuchová's factual comment. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u40	I'll just respond briefly to my colleague Juchelka's performance through you. I'm against it, I'm not being blackmailed as an MP, I'm not being blackmailed by any group. It's my conviction and my opinion. And just maybe the answer to who we're gonna trust to raise or adopt children from a child's home. I'd probably answer that to those who'd be better. And I'm not saying it must always be a heterosexual couple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We continue with Mr Patrik Nacher's speech. Mrs Pekarová Adamová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to call you that in the Czech Parliament, because nowadays it is not as automatic as you have met those who were on the London or New York subway, where they are no longer called ladies and gentlemen, but they are called esteemed present or good day to everyone. I'm saying it here for context. For context. For the whole social atmosphere that Western civilization is in today. It's not just the isolated thing, the subject we're discussing today. We're at a time when there are traffic lights in Australia, where there are dummies out there like women in skirts. Third-sex toilets. In London, some hospitals call a pregnant person, not a pregnant woman. Céline Dion came in gender neutral clothes. In English schools somewhere, they learn that boys have a kind of menstruation. And a German feminist crowned it a month ago when she said that a child was the worst thing she could do for the environment. I'm saying this here because I don't agree with the relativization of everything and everyone. And we may be here in a few weeks to meet up with the Istanbul Convention and to ratify it, and we'll talk about whether it's going to be said - and in France it's already passed in the school bill - mom or dad, or parent one, parent two. In the German city - don't take my word for it now, in Duisburg or somewhere, they've approved that she won't be a teacher, a teacher, but she'll be a teacher. So it's the teacher and the teacher, etc. etc. We all know, or we're kind of intuitive, that when we pass the law here, we take turns in front of the microphone not to convince your colleagues, but to tell the public, the media our opinion. And we are more or less bound by club opinions, opposition, coalitions, right, left, etc. etc. However, at this point, I think we're at a standard where it doesn't apply that much. That there are many among us who do not have a strong view of it, they are not determined. And I think that we should listen to each other here and have this cultural debate, and maybe we can convince these people that instead of putting the card away and alibising them out of here, they'll just say yes or no. That's why I'm a little sorry, I have to say, the O.R. is half empty, the MPs are out there, and they're not doing it. On the contrary, I would like to appreciate that the gallery for the public is completely full, that people are simply interested. [[15.50 hours]] My attitude, you know, is consistent over the long term. I've written the book "The Madness of the Time of Righteousness" for me on the subject. I'm gonna take this opportunity to make a commercial like this. But I want to underline the fact that I have a long-term opinion that it's not based on surveys, whoever did it. One's the one, one's the one, and I'm here to change my mind as a banner? I've got it in the long run. I'm the book, and the paperwork for it started long before I ran for the Chamber of Deputies. There are two suggestions, and I reject the world's black and white vision that one opinion is right, the other is backwards. One is tolerant, the other is intolerant. One is modern and the other is so narrow-minded. I reject this kind of thing as much as I refuse to label it. I participated in almost all the different conferences that are also ahead of us on the subject, as well as on the topic gender. And there, unfortunately, those who fight against labeling, so when they run out of arguments, then they label themselves. Today's a time of rest, I'd say. No war, we're good. Western civilization, Western Europe is in the best economic position it has ever been. There's no doubt about it. And I have a feeling that as these ideas come along - and I have to say that we, the Czech Republic, are in this island of healthy common sense - so I feel like we're burning a good apartment. Everything is considered discrimination these days. And I say it's bad for everything. Not everything when someone disagrees with something is some kind of prejudice or fulfillment of stereotypes. And I dare say that if it goes away, if any expression of dissent with any attitude, opinion, look is described as prejudice or stereotype, then what happens is that really hateful people, people who really have prejudice, fall into the same space with those who just don't agree with the political correctness. There is also a struggle in the media and in public space. I've only done a little bit of statistics. Now I'm not going to evaluate the activity of the different camps, that's not my place. I did it to December 2018, because I thought I'd come early and talk. Well, maybe I've got the media, so there's two petitions. And while the marriage petition had 95 exclusive information for everyone, the marriage for men and women was only 11. In other words, there's a fight going on here, as if, of course, in the media, and that can affect someone. And now I'm asking why there's such disproportion. I'm telling you, I'm not. I'm not evaluating the activity of the individual parties. Because it could be there, someone's smarter, someone's less. But those petitions are some kind of act that the petition committee has been discussing. One collected over 103 grand, the other, I suspect, 80, 90 grand. So it's about the same size. And in the meantime, there's this healthy common sense that I'm still trying to remind myself of, and it doesn't get much space. I'm going to read you a couple here - to make a few quotes for the context of the whole situation - from Facebook when I tried to write something about it publicly and criticized that certain media invites only the bearers of one proposal to their shows. I got this answer. "If critics are invited, this society will continue to spin in a stagnant circle. So let the critics stay home for me. For example, the enforcement of an idea is always at the expense of those who disagree." I'm quoting, okay? So it's got to be with mistakes. "Someone will always feel wronged. Now it's up to us whether we're going to invite returnees to television shows to hinder the satisfactory development of this company." Well, I'd crown it by saying that if I'm saying I'm sorry, and I think I'm being cultured, and show me one of the only statements I made in social networks or in the media that would offend someone, I'm really going to apologize - so some lady in my office crowned it. "Patrik Nacher actually just wants to keep to himself his status quo association of friends of a white heterosexual man. And it's understandable, he's right. Because there's really no room for a man like him except for a museum." This is how it is, please. Let's get to the point. As my colleague Milan Feranec says - who is logged in and will speak, and I think it's very appropriate, and he and I never brag about it here with strange thoughts: the difference between marriage and registered partnership, respectively between the relationship of identical and heterosexual couples will always be, even if it is one millimeter. For some, an inch, a meter. Economists help to explain some phenomena by reducing the number of participants in order to explain the function of money or exchange trade, how inflation works and so on. So I'll also use an example of a small group on the island to illustrate the millimeter difference that Milan Feranec describes. Imagine two men and two women crashing on a desert island. It's a reaction to my colleague Kopřiva, by the way. I didn't apply to the actual ones before, so I wouldn't extend it here, I just saved it for my speech. If these two couples - men and women - were to create heterosexual couples, it would be practical and, above all, theoretical biological, physical possibility that they would produce offspring. If they were to create gender pairs on that island, that means two men and two women, reproduction is impossible, even theoretically - and now watch out - I already know you'd be squeezing again - unless there was someone third for the act itself at that time. And then those two couples would be together again. In other words, that is what I agree with my colleague on. Here you can see the millimeter, millimeter difference. Millimeter. For someone inches tall, someone can see it a mile. So, please, let's not play hypercorrect over here, that there's no difference. Let me quote again from Facebook, a person who has been in a registered partnership for about eight years. "Whatever you call the same sex unions, they will always be, by definition, different from heterosexual marriages. Much more important than what they call themselves is for the rights applicable to both to be compared. And to really get to the natural tolerance of majority society. We're both on the right track, and let's be happy about it. I'm not sure whether the demands at all costs compare with something that is simply not comparable - and that doesn't mean that one is better or worse - are exactly what moves us forward." End of quote. Then I ask, colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, where it will stop. So let's be fair. It's clumping into the concept of marriage for everyone. So what about polygamous relationships? What about relationships between relatives? Because the argument on the defense is the same. The argument is the same. Do they like each other? They do. Does it hurt anyone else? He won't. So the argument is exactly the same. We have here an example of a billionaire who lives, as far as I know, I don't know if that's true yet, with two women saying that one is a wife and the other one is unofficial. And only one of them is a wife. In theory, there could be two wives in the future. So let's talk about it. Because in our tolerant society, no one is forbidden that a billionaire lives with two women. Nobody's offended, no one's moralized. I even think some may be quietly envious of him. So how are we going to look at the other things then? That's what's important to the context. In my opinion, it is not only the proposal that can be discussed in isolation, because we live in a society, at some time where the various proposals that I mentioned at the outset are falling. [[16.00 hours]] I almost also feel like a classic marriage is boring, so today it's a trend that you're marrying yourself. That's what I'm talking about here in one of my actuals, that's the sologamia. Or there's a tendency now that people are getting engaged to something. I found it with a bridge, a chandelier and everything. This means that it is offered here - quite seriously it is offered here - the situation that marriage is a union of not two people, but in terms of the development that colleagues here are talking about, that even a hundred years ago women could not vote, I hear this argument often enough that it could be a union of one or more people. Then why do it in that case, so let's do it. It's not a union of two people, but it's a union of one or more people. Why couldn't it be more people? Or it could be a fixed marriage. That's what I noticed in the debate. It's an indefinite marriage today. By the way, it's actually spicy that marriage is such a struggle in a country where at least four prime ministers got divorced, so I found it. So it's quite interesting and even more spicy. I had a proposal prepared. I had a proposal prepared, as I said at the beginning - law, yes, marriage, no. Here's the correlation table. [[He's pointing.]] Marriage - registered partnership - partnership. As I would suggest, that means all rights are equalized. I didn't do it after all, and I'll tell you why. 'Cause--I said that at the club today-- because I don't want to do what's called good. I'm gonna find some constructive solution when I'm criticizing something here because I'm not used to criticizing anything, then sitting, shut up, watching it turn out. So I wanted to come up with a solution. However, I got into the process that on the one hand it's not enough, and I got slaps for it when I put it that way figuratively, and on the other hand it's too much rights transferred. And now I'm in the middle and everyone's dissatisfied from both sides. In other words, let the Members express their views. Let them do the so-called coming out, whether they show up here for or against. Don't let them hide, and that's my position, for whatever opinion they have. And that's why I've changed it, and I'm gonna admit that I'm not gonna give an opinion here that's kind of a wedge that a whole bunch of Members would be hiding behind, because they wouldn't express their own opinion whether they're in favour or against. That is why I call on each of the Members to say what they think, not to delay or pull out, or to go out on the phone, or to make excuses for the fact that there is still a third proposal. This is a lesson for me, of course, also for the next time, because I had quite a time with it, as some colleagues here have said on the microphone. Finally, I would like to try to illustrate the logic visually, as I see it, on an example that has been addressed here, by the way, that we smaller Members have a problem with this rhetorical counter. How do you look at it? That's a beautiful example. There are three different paths. Either we don't have to deal with this at all, and we're the smaller ones, so we have a downside. That's one way. Or the other way is that there's some little individual adjustment that those who are smaller will use, stand on it, and those who are bigger won't use it. [[Shows a step under the pitch]] It's a minor adjustment. The third option, I think, is what is typical of the hypercorrective time today: that for all the speakers, it just cuts by 30 cm, so that we, the smaller ones, can see. But then for those who are tall, it's gonna be low. I think that's how beautifully I feel about it. I'm in favour of having that step here, I can choose. Not to change the rules for us small, what is a minority, to influence all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u43	Thank you, Mr Patrik Nacher. We have three factual points ahead of the continuation, Mr Lubomír Španěl, Mr Helena Válková and Mr Válek. Now, my colleague Lubomír Španěl, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also had a pioneer speech prepared by my colleague, Mrs Jarošová, as Mrs Šlechtová said. Eventually, I'll drop him. Of course, I wanted to defend a traditional marriage and demonstrate it to you on the words from that movie, I think it was with Schwarzenegger, as he said men have a penis and women vagina. Well, it's not my fault that God invented it that way, or Darwin, I don't know, or nature itself, it's just that, and without a man and a woman, mankind wouldn't exist anymore, and there wouldn't be a lot of animal species. Of course, you say that gay couples can adopt children. But then how are we gonna explain to these kids when they start to understand why they live with two dads or two moms? But that's all been said here. Since two minutes will run away like water, I must rely mainly on the words of Ms Exministra Šlechtová through Mr President. Firstly, I would like to say that the SPD certainly does not fight Islam. Please, we're not fighting Islam. We are merely drawing attention to the dangers that the expansion of Islam brings to Europe, terrorism, and danger. And if you think that this danger of terrorism with how many people are coming here from Africa isn't rising, then I'm sure they'll show you all those situations from France, now the last time I was in Holland, I'm not wrong. Mrs Šlechtová once again through Mr President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u45	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u46	Please don't label pioneers. We don't label you either. And we could.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u47	Don't bother me. I need us to abide by the Rules of Procedure. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, also with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u48	Vice-President, I hope I don't bother you too and keep that limit. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I've been summoned twice to the petition committee. We really had a public hearing, and I did, like Mr Nacher, because I did not please anyone, even though I watched carefully on my secondhand how I would give my word to them. Both sides were frustrated, both those who are in favour of maintaining the traditional nomenclature and its content of marriage, and those who seek the opposite, respectively. Trying to expand for a group of gay couples. So both of them were extremely dissatisfied, and they both told me that after the public hearing, which I really tried to conduct in time fairly, both sides told me that they didn't imagine it and that I preferred the other side. So I'm going to conclude that it's going to be like the vote on smoking in restaurants, and we're just going to have a hard time convincing each other. What I think must be underlined is that if the draft amendment of the Civil Code does not pass, it is indeed a very well prepared proposal of an amendment that balances rights, or I would be in favour of doing good in such a case. And I will encourage Mr Nacher to do so because I have read the previous proposals that were not such. I think this last one would satisfy all those who think that their rights - and they think that they are rightfully - are far from guaranteed in the Civil Code as they are with married couples. So in this respect, I think we're ready for the option to pull it out of the drawer and have it voted out here. Finally, the last sentence, Mr Vice-President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u49	That is not going to work either, Madame, because you have two minutes to make a point of fact. [[I see. All right.]] A colleague of Mr. Válek checked out of a factual remark. Mrs Červíčková is now making a point of fact. Then we continue until there is another factual point, Mrs Pekarová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u50	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow this up with my dear fellow speaker Patrik Nachr through you. Nacher, I'm sorry, it's all wrong now. I'm sorry, Patrik, through you. Thank you for the nice scene with the counter. But it's just what you said about wanting people to choose here at the counter. And so does the LGBT community. It's about wanting to have a choice. That doesn't mean that if the amendment came into force, everyone would rush into marriage tomorrow. Neither are we heterosexual couples. We're not all married. So it's about the choice, the choice. We're oddly in agreement on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We are continuing the debate with the speech of Mrs Pekarová Adamová, prepared by Vít Rakušan. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u52	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very brief. I'm definitely not gonna have an analysis like the previous speakers who performed. I would also like to comment on the coming out that we have been asked to do here by my colleague. I think that maybe it's all the more interesting for me that I've changed my mind during the debate that's been going on for months. I'm, for starters, Catholic. I'm married, and I'm not going to change anything about it in the future, and yet I'm in favour of the same sexual couples becoming husbands. I'm looking at it that way. And it's definitely up to everyone, as they see it, I don't want to convince anyone of my attitude. I think that this can be viewed from the perspective of protecting the relationships, the relationships of those people, and the support of those people to the very healthy relationships that can lead to. And I think that's the best way we can protect the traditional, so-called. a traditional marriage, that is, to take the best care of the relationships we have in them. And I'm afraid it really isn't because of anyone other than those who live in these marriages to take care of their relationships and try to make the relationship go well in the future. So I'm really not worried about the different futures, let's say, the steps that many people are warning about, and they're saying that we're going to be dealing with other subway jingles here, as they said, or the exchange of traffic lights shots. Let's figure that out when it comes to the future eventually, but now it really has nothing to do with this novel or this stuff at all. Let's not tie it up. This isn't what we're talking about today. Not even about the boxes in the forms, if that's what it says or that's what it says. We're talking about a certain change here, which I think will really help many to identify them in a relationship. I changed my mind after the debates that I had the opportunity to have thanks to some who are very active on this issue, because until then I thought that it was only necessary to change the law on registered partnerships. My attitude was - let's change the rules, let's talk about some adjustments to comply. But I realized that the really registered partnership at the moment is, when I simplify it a lot, the mere exchange of IDs at the office, and for those involved, it has a really big symbolism, and that's why I think we should be able to give it to them. That's why I just want to ask, and of course everyone here, I feel like they've been decided and that everyone's attitude is already formed, but that we should be able to look at it from the point of view of people's relationships, not just from the point of view of some of the concerns that they may raise in many, and that we move on to the next reading, so that we don't kill it at first reading here in the House. Thank you for your attention. But I believe that many are equally determined and that perhaps such a transition of opinion is rather unique, yet I think it should be said here just because we are not talking about trivial things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u53	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Mr Vít Rakušan is also registered, but he is absent, so his application is forfeit. Finally, Mr Milan Feranec is the envoy, and Mrs Eva Fialová will be prepared. Before I give the floor to my colleague Feranc, I shall read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Josef Kott apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words on this issue. We are in a merged debate, and some previous speakers speak for the law on marriage for all, and some speak for the protection of marriage when I cut it short. Personally, I'm not voting for a single law. Not for the first, not for the second. I will explain the reasons why I will not vote to protect my marriage. I think this law is useless. What's the law protecting us from? Or protects from who? I dare say my family or your family aren't threatening other people. We're the only ones who can put her in jeopardy by the way we act. So from this point of view, I consider the law, the protection of marriage, to be useless and create unnecessary disputes in society. But I'm not gonna vote for the marriage bill either. I'll explain the reasons. Because, in my opinion, he doesn't solve practical problems. I understand these people don't have the same rights, or I get it. If we're having fun, trying to solve, I don't know, the right to health information, let's solve the specific paragraph. If we want to address the creation of a joint property of spouses, let us solve a specific paragraph of the Civil Code. If we want to address the issue of adoption, let us solve a specific paragraph of the Civil Code. But that's not what the proposal's supposed to be. The proposal is a big, revolutionary leap. We'll figure everything out. And completely regardless of tradition, history, perception. I don't think that's right. I understand these are values that can change over time. That changes. That can happen. I'd point out one problem. I looked - and the lawyers know what ASPI is, an automated system of legal information. I looked into ASPI, I wrote down my marriage password, and I looked at how much legislation used that term. 347 applicable and effective legislation applies this concept. Of course, the Civil Code, the Criminal Code, the Civil Code, the Income Tax Act, insolvency, asylum, but, for example, a cadastral decree. And I'm asking, has anyone made a comparison, what does that do? This change? I read the reason message. I didn't. They're only dealing with a few sections of the Civil Code. He didn't compare what it would do. So, from my point of view, the adoption of the law is a leap into darkness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u55	Ambassador, I will interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace! [[The meeting room is half-empty.]] I don't like to do this, especially when it comes to a factual point. Now it's a proper performance. Indeed, if you are having a debate other than the merged debate on paragraphs 37 and 38, it is fundamentally in the foyer! It's not quiet yet... Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u56	Thank you. I repeat again. Without someone comparing the 347 legislation that will make this one amendment to one paragraph, it's a leap into the dark. We run, jump, and we don't know if there's a wall or a gap. We have no idea. And maybe it's a development. Maybe it's progress that time has to come like this, and there's nothing we can do about it. Maybe we can't really stop it. But if we can slow it down by three years, then we should do it. And I'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u57	Thank you. And now, Mrs Eva Fialová, Mrs Červíčková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u58	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be able to discuss on this ground today the amendment of the so-called marriage law for all. It is clear that our company has reached a very breakthrough step and is ready to avoid casting us all. There were many reasons for and against, and I will not repeat them. In debates about why I support this novel, I have often wondered what is really my personal motive. I didn't hesitate for a moment, and supporting this change seemed automatic and logically correct. There were many personal stories during the conversations, which in fact are always very similar threads and personal stories. Any teenager who finds that he likes the same sex is going through a very difficult time: first, comparison with himself, further acceptance or non-acceptance of the family, acceptance by his loved ones, surroundings and society. From an early age, they are aware that they will not be able to express love to their mate in a straight way as a man and a woman. If they opt for a registered partnership, they know that they can only do this in 14 places in the Republic, and this act will not be worthy of such deep expression of the love of two people. Often the expectation of this act precedes picking up a serial number as well as when we go to pick up a package at the post office. Another factor is professional studies that point to the fact that a child raised in a colored family is not traumatized. On the contrary, he perceives love from both parents. And happy and beloved children should be our priority. But even this argument is not my personal motive. It's simple - and that's choice. Each heterosexual couple has the option of voluntarily marrying, having children or not. Lesbians and gays don't have that option. They are classified by our society and by our current laws into a particular group and destined for what their boundaries are and where their place is. I therefore call, let us give everyone a choice and a message to our teenagers that their innate orientation is socially accepted and their future will be based on equality of law without labels and legally legitimized. I originally wanted to end my performance at this point and leave your choice whether I did or not. But thanks to a very fresh experience, I'd like to share a story with you. This Sunday, I learned that one of my homosexual friends had died. He died suddenly, no one saw it coming. About two weeks ago, his aorta burst. He never admitted that he'd ever entered into a registered partnership. He always said he wouldn't be registered as a dog or a stamp. He never wanted children. He always had a kind and kind heart. He grew up in a children's home, and as much as he missed love in his life, he could give it away with a full sip. He's been living with a partner who's been diagnosed with mental illness for the past few years. In his hardest moments, he stood by him and would never leave him for pettyness. It wasn't until his death that divided them. Since no one knew this might happen, he didn't have time to write the last will, although he talked about it for the last few months. He died in the hospital and no one was entitled to pick up his personal belongings, which are part of the inheritance process. Of course, a friend collapsed and was unable to identify who, who, and where to call to inform us about this sad report. There wasn't even a place to look, because all the phone records were left on the phone with personal belongings in the hospital. As I mentioned earlier, Pavel grew up in a children's home, and no one knows if an heir will be found. Whether his friend is entitled to stay in the apartment or not. Everything could be different if even in such a difficult situation it was possible to have a married couple of the same sex, because, as you can see, the current registration of a partnership is not the choice - and now I apologize for the comparison - is a patch on a ruptured aorta.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u59	Thank you, Mrs Eva Fialová, and we will continue with the speech by Mrs Červíčková. Mrs. Melková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u60	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to reflect on the proposed amendment to so-called marriage for everyone in a broader context. The proposed regulation does not concern only members of the LGBT community. It also concerns their parents, siblings, a wider family or friends. Naturally, they all care that their loved ones are granted not only the same rights but also the dignity that all other citizens of our country have. And it's a legitimate requirement. After all, the first article in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms states that people are free and equal in dignity and rights. But how can people who actually have less rights than others under applicable legislation retain dignity because they have not fallen in love with majority taste? How must their parents, their siblings, their loved ones feel? Let's really try to think about their feelings, too. Everyone's lives are sometimes more complicated than we'd like. Each of us is an individuality and we live in many aspects of different lives. However, no distinction, not even sexual orientation, should be a cause for discrimination in rights. The adoption of this amendment promises to enable people from the LGBT community to enjoy the same rights and, at the same time, to reach the same level of partnership arrangement as all of us. And that seems very important to me. I would therefore ask you not to reject this amendment at the very beginning, not only in view of its human rights dimension, but especially because of the possibility of improving the position of a small group of our fellow citizens. Thank you for your helpfulness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u61	Thank you, Mrs Červíčková. Now, Mrs Melková, Mrs Richterová will be ready. [[Votes from the diaper draw attention to the absence of Mrs Melk.]] She's not, so in that case, her application fails at the end of the applications. Mrs Richterová, my colleague Řehounek will be ready. [[Votes from the diaper draw attention to the absence of Mrs Richter.]] It's not, it's also failing her application. We now have Mr Řehounek's application. He's here, yes. He's not excused. I know I took those applications very quickly now, so we'll wait. A colleague of Valenta will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u62	Mr President, thank you for this very rapid progress. I didn't even wear my glasses, so hopefully I can handle it. I'm only prepared for a very short contribution. As my colleague here has said, by your means, Pekarová, that she has come to a change of heart about the first House press, so I believe that 99 percent of us, and maybe I dare say 100 percent, have already decided how to vote... [[A colleague brought glasses to Grehounk.]] Thank you. ... how he'll vote. [[16.30 hours]] And for me - I'm married, I have children. Marriage is certainly a rare unique thing, but only when married couples so approach it. I think what they used to say, that family is the foundation of the state, unfortunately, is no longer valid in 2019. Not only does the development of society, the legal order of the Czech Republic, the legal order, the Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms need to be taken into account, but also guarantees equality of rights. I think many unmarried heterosexual couples deny it. They live together for years without papers, they have children, they work as a family. And they don't want the paper. On the other hand, every other marriage in the Czech Republic is divorced. That means saying that this institute really is the fundamental thing that our society is supposed to be based on, I don't think it really works anymore. Marriage isn't for everyone, but everyone should have the choice whether they want to get married or not. And that choice is currently denied to same-sex couples. If I pull it off when I was still the deputy mayor of Pardubice, I could only marry heterosexual couples. I couldn't make a registered partnership happen as a representative. So for me, I'm here to give my personal opinion that I'm gonna support the marriage bill for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u63	I thank Mr Jan Řehounek. A colleague, Jiří Valenta, has withdrawn his application for the debate. We therefore still have an application here because this is a merged debate, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. If she has already said so, we will also consider this application to be exhausted. The Rakušan is excused. In that case, I will probably catch Mr Václav Klaus unprepared. Since I have called on colleagues who have had other debates to discuss in the lobby, I will wait a little longer. A colleague of the Volný will be ready. My colleague Václav Klaus is not excused, so he is to be present at the meeting and I respect the fact that I am really five before him... [[Reaction in the right side of the hall.]] If my colleagues don't know, I'll move his application to the end of the enrollment. And I will ask Mr Jan Volný to take the floor. I don't see him either. [[Fun in the hall.]] Well, then, Lubomír Volný. It's not. That's what we're good at. So I will first read all the registered ones who are next to avoid such a moment, and that is: Mrs Šafránková, colleague Kopřiva, Pour, Jarošová, Bauer, Golasowská, Bojko, Kobza, Kott, Ventruba, Šlechtová and at the end of the application by Mr Klaus. So we have the 12 left. Mrs Šafránková. [[He's not in the O.R.]] I'll check for apologies. [[He's browsing in the list.]] Colleagues Šafránková is also not excused. [[Mrs Šafránková is coming into the hall.]] He's here. There. I said I'm a tolerance myself today. My colleague, once again, before I give you my word, I say, after Mrs Šafránková, let Mr Kopřiva, Pour, Jarošová, Bauer, Golasowská, Bojko, Kobza, Kott, Ventruba, Šlechtová and Klaus be properly prepared. I hope it's quiet enough here. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing in many respects the very sensitive issue of marrying gay couples and the possibility of adopting children by these couples. I would like to say that there is no way I have anything against homosexuals. I fully respect them and consider them equivalent. I don't have a problem with a registered partnership either. This institute was approved by the Czech Parliament in the last decade. At that time, the representative of the LGBT claimed that it was absolutely sufficient for them and considered it a final target. He also promised that they would never demand its extension, for example, to adopt children. He called the viewers who had warned against this at the time liars and spreaders of alarm messages. I don't label or reject anyone based on sexual orientation. I am really glad to live in a country that is friendly and tolerant of sexual minorities, a country where these minorities have full civil rights. But please, let us not confuse these rights with claims and privileges. Let us not unite legitimate demands, which, moreover, can undermine the rights and freedoms of others. For these reasons, I must say to the proposal that I respect our current legal and content definition of marriage, as well as the purpose of its creation and existence. And this is the following: Marriage in the legal order of the Czech Republic is seen as a long-term, virtually. a permanent community of one man and one woman. The goal of marriage is the coexistence of both spouses and, first and foremost, the education of their children. Our country can be described as a Christian society in which the family is made up of the mother of the female and the father of the male. Nature itself has arranged for a child to be born to two different sexes, not the same. The offspring in their lifetime see both male and female patterns and thus learn to understand the roles of both these sexes in society. Let's not interfere with this centuries of proven condition. Let us not expose thousands of citizens of conflict to their conscience and faith. This situation is happening in countries where the marriage of the same sex couples has been enacted and where the state is forcing the support of this fact to citizens for whom it is a choice between their own convictions. Can we please think together about the real impact of such a situation? In my opinion, questions such as how couples will be examined before adopting a child should the same-sex marriage be broken up from the point of view of custody of the child. And doesn't a child have a right to a classic family model? How can the fact that he has two fathers or two mothers affect his psyche? Until these and other questions are finally answered and protected by law, the adoption of children by homosexual couples can be considered premature and not entirely moral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u65	Thank you, Mrs Šafránková. Now, Mr Kopřiva. Mr Pour will be ready. Mr Kopřiva has resigned from the debate. So, Mr. Pour. And a colleague Jan Bauer will be prepared. My colleague Pour... Yes. I will ask the House for peace so that you can present your contribution in a dignified environment. But I'm serious. If you're discussing another subject, please in the foyer... There's still not enough peace... Thank you. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u66	Thank you for the floor, too. Mr President, dear colleagues, I have also decided to respond and to take a stand on both prints in a merged debate. I am opposed to the bill amendment, where the institution of marriage also includes persons of the same sex. I am in favour of maintaining the current dualistic model of legal recognition of the same-sex union. In practice, this means that, in addition to the institution of marriage for couples of the opposite sex, in 2006 Parliament of the Czech Republic adopted Act No. 115/2006, another institute for same-sex couples in the form of a registered partnership. I think that's as much as possible at the moment. According to the information available at the time of preparation of this new institute, it was declared to the petitioner of this law that further requirements for legislation at this institute would no longer be applied. And, hey, it's been a dozen years, and we have new legislation to discuss, so-called. marriage for same-sex couples. [[16.40 hours]] If Parliament approves, it will signal the preparation of further legislation that may occur. And that's a third-sex law where a person doesn't feel like a man or a woman. As has already happened in neighbouring Germany, where they are already building third-sex toilets. And I can continue to think. Perhaps in a few years some deviants will start to appeal to the fact that they want to legalize various sexual perversions that are now considered a criminal offence. Or we can legalize sologism. That's when you marry yourself, or you marry yourself, which is in some -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u67	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace! I understand that some like to see their Facebook and other media, but please, we are discussing a rather serious issue that provokes controversy not only on the political scene, but also among citizens, so please let anyone who wants to comment on this in a dignified environment give their opinion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u68	Maybe it's funny for someone, but maybe the situation can actually happen. As I said, we can, for example, legalize a soloist when you marry yourself or marry yourself, which has already been done in some countries of the world, without a legal framework so far. A reasonable person must ask where the world is going. They're laws against human nature. I'm going to try to think more about the reasons why we're going in this direction from my point of view, not in a very happy direction. I borrowed a quote from Friedrich August von Hayek, a philosopher and economist. This Nobelův Prize winner for economics for contributing to the theory of monetary policy and economic cycle states: Economic domination cannot be separated from the domination of people's lives, as goals cannot be controlled when controlling resources. What was previously won by war can now be achieved e.g. by spreading false values. In this respect, family institutions appear to be the most appropriate target. Family is a fundamental pillar of the social community. I consider the family, as I hope many other Members and citizens, as the foundation of the state and the nation. Clearly, the family has been developing over the centuries. In the 21st century, a different challenge awaits a family than it was in the past. In the current period of multiculturalism, however, it is necessary to maintain a functional traditional family. Her rights must be defended not only in our country but also abroad. Through the family institute, among other things, the reproduction of society takes place in two planes. The first is demographic, the second consists of a certain hierarchy of values. This second plane is associated with the socialization function of the family. The strength of the tradition maintained in society is an essential element defining the state of the family. The disruption of social tradition results in the current decline in reproductive potential. There is a direct dependence between the frequency of large families and the degree of tradition in society's life. The genesis of the reproductive behavior of the modern type was conditioned mainly by the departure from religious tradition, the processes of desecration and atheism. The importance of a large family, illuminated by traditional religions, has been systematically destroyed. The global character of the secularization process was linked to the trend of the modernization of birth rate. Those civilizations and nations that were able to resist a globalization diversion from the faith and decline of tradition have maintained a high birth rate. Perhaps now you will ask yourself why I am talking about this. The amendments to the Civil Code are proposed in family relations. There is an effort to make joint adoption, reconciliation and social (?) foster care could also be granted to persons of the same sex. In the explanatory report, the petitioners refer to research that claims that children raised by lesbian or gay couples have an equally suitable environment for raising children and their successful development. Allegedly, these children have normal social relationships with peers and adults. However, as I have learned from the scientific study of Sullinsův, the conclusions of this study demonstrate the complete opposite. Conclusions show that children raised by same-sex couples show a strong tendency to depression in adulthood, reporting more sexually motivated acts of violence than children of classic biological parents. Every psychologist will tell you that whether we want or not, what our parents were, will affect us our entire lives. Mother and father are a subconscious role model of the female and male world. Yet, they are the same psychologists who today also claim that it doesn't really matter whether the child has a mother or a father or any other combination of parents. It's about love, isn't it? And does a child need a mother or a father? Or mother and father? Sullinsův' study says so, and confirms what we know from ordinary human experience and tells us common sense. Yet similar truths previously regarded as trivially obvious today are denied by people who insist that the child's interest must be superior to the desires of adults. A study conducted by professor of sociology, Paul Sullins, found that 28 - year - old adults who were raised as children by parents of the same sex had more than twice the risk of an outbreak of depression than those raised by their mother and father. In addition, these people had increased risks associated with an inappropriate relationship of family proximity and distance, suicidal tendencies and anxiety at the age of 15 years, a feeling of stigmatisation and obesity. In view of these conclusions, Sullins concludes that further research and attention is needed by legislators towards the potentially problematic situation of children with identical sex parents. Sullins further notes that his study is important because other studies, which did not identify any differences between children from classical and homogeneous families, usually used unreliable psychometric indicators of depression or anxiety, resulting in neglect of policies aimed at the specific needs of similar children. Sullinsův' research is in sharp contrast with the result of other studies, as I have already mentioned. Although the Sullinsův study was relatively small, it followed a representative sample of American teens using an interview of about 15 years of age, which was the first wave. Then in 1995 - it was first in 1995, when the first wave took place. Then another wave took place at the age of 22 years in 2002. And at the age of 28 it was in 2008. Her conclusions were quite surprising. She found that during teenage years, children of the same - sex parents showed fewer signs of depression than children of classical families. But the situation changed dramatically when children were between the ages of 24 and 32. More than half of the same-sex children reported depression, while children from classic families dropped the same number below 20 percent. Children of same - sex parents also showed a higher level of family violence, more cases of slapping, beating, kicking a child, and words from parents who hurt feelings or force a person to feel that he was not wanted and loved. And also sexual touching from a parent, coercion to touch a parent sexually, or coercion to sexual practices. Sullins disagrees with the claim that at least further research is needed to appreciate the true nature of gender parenting. A few years ago, the U.S. Department of Labour and Health published an extensive study that demonstrates the vital importance of biological fathers for the healthy development of the child. In addition to this most careful scientifically accurate and metrology-friendly study ever conducted in the field of homosexual parenting, it found numerous and substantial differences between biological parents' children and homosexual children, with results below averaged for homosexual children in almost every category investigated. [[16.50 hours]] Yet there are many advocates of same - sex parenting who claim that children do not need a biological mother and father and defend the practice in which children are born with the intention of leaving one parent out of their lives. And it is precisely the purpose that needs to be stressed. We're not talking about widows, orphans and random pregnancies. We are talking about adults who have thoughtfully decided to bring a child into the world, who will be equally deprived of the possibility of having a relationship with their mother or father or even getting to know them. So what's more important? The feelings and desires of an adult, or the real and natural feelings of a child who was denied the basic - mommy and daddy? [[have]] I have such a distressing feeling from this law that it is intended for the same sex couples to buy children, because when one answers the question of where the children will be taken, the only thing that happens is that they just have to buy them somewhere. And they will deliberately produce semi-sorry women, who will be in the care of two people, but for children they are neither a mother nor a father, to whom they are already entitled by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. To explain it more closely. My point is that the Czech Republic is very liberal in terms of law in the field of assisted reproduction and anonymous donation. Therefore, I am convinced that then there will be no problem to arrange sperm or egg through various medical institutions, which means customized, for identical sex couples. I will not support this amendment of the Civil Code, as it is presented, as I said at the outset. However, I would like to comply with those who ask that same sex couples, today's registered partners, should be subject to similar rules as spouses in terms of inheritance and joint property. Therefore, if the law reaches second reading, then I am only willing to support partial legislation for identical sex couples that will not relate to their relationship with children. If the law does not pass by the second reading, then I will be happy to support another proposal that will address precisely the issues of inheritance and the joint assets of registered partners. Please, let us focus even more on family policy in the House. If we weaken the family's institute, there will be more children from non-working families. For example, we support affordable mortgages for own housing for young families, functional short-term jobs for mothers, possibly increasing child allowances, building nursery schools, day care facilities, and a number of other measures. It is the topic of the family institute that will be dealt with by lecturers from the Czech Republic and abroad at the international conference Family and its rights in the 21st century, which will take place on 5 April this year in the premises of the Chamber of Deputies. I warmly invite you all to this conference and welcome you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u69	I thank Mr Milan Pour. There are two factual points, namely Mr Patrik Nacher, Mrs Radka Maxová and Mr Marek Výborný. Now a factual remark by Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u70	I'm not even gonna waste them. Thank you for the floor. I've already said in my speech that it bothers me that he's here - now there's no half, but a third of the MPs. I think it is undignified given what we are discussing here, but I find it shocking that there are not even Members who are enrolled in a proper debate. I just want to make it clear here, because I don't know who's supposed to talk, who's not supposed to talk, but how's it going down there? So either these MPs are properly excused or they're supposed to be here. But I didn't see anybody like that, in a number like this, there were no Members here who should speak. I just wanted to say it on the microphone so it would be clear here. I think it's an important thing that affects a lot of people. We all have an opinion on this, and we either show it or we don't report to the debate, but it would be dignified, I think, for the discussion to be here at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u71	I thank Mr Patrik Nacher and I will explain immediately - for example, Jan Bauer has now been enrolled in the merged debate on both prints, which is why he is now withdrawing the application because he has already spoken once. That is why, because it has been dealt with in this way and both applications have been valid in the merged debate, so of course some do not. But now I have a factual comment by Mrs Radka Maxová, also by Marek výborný and Vlastimil Válek. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just gonna keep it short. I would like to ask my fellow Members from the other side of the camp, which means the advocate of the Constitution and perhaps the supporter of the half-promotion compromise, which we do not have - and that is good, and it is good what Mr Patrik said - so that they do not scare. [[Nacher]] They didn't scare us, they didn't scare the public. Those horror scenarios that the camp is sending us are really unacceptable to me. And it's a completely unnecessary haunting of a company that's not supported by any relevant studies. What my colleague Pour said here is misleading, misleading, and misleading. I'd like us to talk about the practical things that we're dealing with here. And it is practical things that make life difficult for our citizens. And make life harder for our children! Specifically, we're talking about alimony, and we're going to say, if a registered couple happens to have a child, the other one, a non-biological parent doesn't get a claim, they break up, so the child doesn't get a claim to maintenance. And these are the things that we want to deal with comprehensively. So please don't scare people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u73	Thank you, Mrs Maxová, for keeping the time. I note that a colleague of Foldyna is also registered from the post, but I cannot give him the floor because they are properly logged in electronically, as I said, Marek Výborný, Vlastimil Válek and Jan Bartošek. Before I give my colleague the Excellent Word, I state Mrs Věra Kovářová's apology from 17.00 to the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, I'll take your time. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u74	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I have a really factual point about what my colleague Pour said here, and that is an invitation to a specialist seminar. He invited you to April 5th. It's April 4th. Well, just to be specified. We invite colleagues Marek Benda and Aleš Juchelka to a seminar on Why we need a constitutional definition of marriage. Guests from abroad will also appear here, April 4th from 14:00, House 1, room 205. You got the invitation, I think, electronically. [[Member Nacher from the bench: There are two different actions.]] There are two different actions. Well, I'm sorry. So that's probably the second event on April 5th, but that's also true. You're cordially invited. And just as my colleague Patrik Nacher said, I would like to call on those who are enrolled in the debate, so actually get out. As I commended the House last time that we had a relatively decent and factual debate here, so today I confess that I am rather embarrassed about it, so I believe that such essential things as the value of marriage really are worth having a debate here and giving my views, such as that and that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u75	I thank my colleague Výborný for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Vlastimil Válek and then Mr Jan Bartošek, and Mrs Golasowská is registered. But, of course, after the exhaustion of the factual remarks. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u76	I would like to thank my colleague Nacher through the President, because I listened with interest to what he said and I will modify my opinion and position. And also to my colleague Pour, because although I do not fully agree with everything, I am very happy if someone takes courage and quotes the publications that really exist here, no one invents them and is published in the impacted journals. I am very sorry - and I am not saying that I agree or disagree with this, but there is no point in talking about emotions and having to talk about facts. And that's a little bit of a debate here, a little bit of a lack of places. And that is why I will be very happy - I am still not determined how to vote, but I will be very happy if this law gets into second reading, when this expert debate is conducted in committees, we will talk about facts, we will talk about studies, we will talk about what can happen, there cannot be what data exists for it, whether it is a sense of science or whether it is science. And I intercede for what my previous speakers said. It would really be good to be all of us in this room and to listen to the opinions of our colleagues, because those opinions are extremely interesting and we can modify our own opinions, which are often based on emotions. And that is not good with such serious legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u77	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Bartošek's factual comment and a colleague Jaroslav Foldyna will be prepared for the factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In view of the discussions that have been going on for several hours, I would ask you, out of sympathy with the petitioners and the rapporteur, for a quarter hour's break so that they can stretch out and rest, and then we will continue to discuss this point. I'm asking you on behalf of the KDU-ČSL Club for a break until 5:15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u79	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. [[Dissenting voices from the right.]] Mr President, I have also made a factual comment by my colleague, Mr Foldyna. Can we, after the fact that we have a proper logged in? Because a colleague isn't even logged in. [[Mrs Černochová expresses her opinion outside the microphone.]] Can my colleague Bartošek be more specific?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u80	Okay, well, I'll specify my proposal. I will ask you, Mr President, to speak to my colleague, Mr Foldyna, and then I will ask you for a 15-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u81	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna's factual comment, and then I will announce a 15-minute break for the KDU-ČSL club. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u82	Thank you for the floor, thank you, Mr. Bartošek. I wanted to make my comment on Mrs. Maxová's performance. She warned here that someone was haunted. I don't think anyone's haunted. I think someone just exposed your strategy that you're moving around here. When we were discussing a registered partnership here, things like child adoption, we weren't talking here. Those people who advocated a registered partnership were suffocating. And now that it's something to deny biological processes that are clearly given nature, it just reveals how sophisticated these things move. And I'll take one comment. We drove the Bolsheviks to that east so far and so deep that they come back to us neomarxically from the west, from London, from Paris, from the United States, that we are discussing things that are totally against biology and nature! [[He speaks very strongly.]] And we should think about that. And don't scare the co-worker, with the fact that we want something else. We're just talking about what two thousand years society has been built on, and we just can't touch it! That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u83	I thank my colleague, Foldyn, for keeping time on the point of fact. I'm declaring a break until 1717 at the KDU-ČSL club meeting. Before that, I apologize to the President of the House, it is the abolition of the apology from today's meeting by my colleague Věra Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u84	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 1717 hours. The time for the break of the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club has ended and we will continue to discuss both points, respectively. in the merged debate on points 37 and 38. Mrs Golasowská is signed up for the debate and Mr Bojko will be prepared. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I wish you a lovely evening. I hope I'm not gonna be a spook here, and I don't intend to, but I'm not just here for myself, but also for over 100,000 people who signed a petition for the right to marriage as a bond between a man and a woman. I believe that marriage is a union between a man and a woman and should be enshrined in the Constitution for one simple reason. Homophorses call for marriage, with their right to do so, pay taxes, and are legal members of society. However, if this is about law, let us also talk about groups of citizens who would like a model of polygamy, polygamy, or marriage to children. After all, these citizens are also legal citizens, they pay taxes, and they would also love their husbands or wives, so why not allow them to do so? Marriage as a bond between a man and a woman is worth protecting, it is the basic cell of a society in which children grow up and are to grow up, whether biological or adopted or taken into foster care. Raising children is not only about love, but it is also about roles, it is about the role of a man and a woman, when a woman represents tenderness, open arms, and a man is supposed to protect the family, ensure its safety, determine the children in raising the border. Let me give you an example from Sweden. maminka, who came to the nursery to get her child, turned to the teacher who told the child that his mother had come for him. My wife said she wasn't a mother, she's a parent. So the kid won't call his wife Mom, but parents number one or maybe number two. And who will parent No. 1 and who is No. 2? He's a parent. 1 better than No. 2? And if they get divorced, they're going to have a parent. 1 greater entitlement to the child's education than No 2? And if parent No. 1 Divorce with Parents No. 2 and he will find another partner, he will be the parent for the child No. 3 or 4? Or will a child have several parents of 1s or 2s? And let's go even further. In the future it will mean that the children will not have a grandmother and grandpa, but grandparents No. One, two, three, four, fill in. Another example from Holland, where there was even a proposal for so-called. a double marriage where each spouse can bring another partner into the family and also adopt his children. Fortunately, this proposal was rejected. Dear colleagues, I don't know if you still have parents, but I'm sure we all did, whether we knew them or not. But imagine you couldn't call them mom and dad, but parents no. 1, parent No. 2, our traditional holidays, such as Mother's Day or the relatively newly celebrated Father's Day, will now be parents' holiday No. One, two, three. I'm here on the children's rights side. Let's leave them mom and dad, let's leave them the male and female role models they need, and let's not just argue that a child needs only the love of two people to raise. I'm asking for your support to establish marriage as a bond between a man and a woman in the Constitution. Colleagues and colleagues, let us respect the traditions and natural order of life and let us not be swayed by the so-called. modern currents that bring instability, uncertainty, and uprooting to families and children living in them. In our fears of the influx of migrants, we often harbor Christian roots to which our nation has claimed for over a thousand years. Let us not be alibis who wield Christianity only when it suits us. Marriage as a bond between a man and a woman has a solid foundation in Christianity - the basis for raising children and the firm role of a woman-mom and a man-dad. [[17.20 hours]] If we want to rewrite parent roles from mom and dad to parent No. 1 and 2, maybe we should also rewrite the fourth commandment of the Ten Commandments, which reads "Honour your father and your mother, that you may live long and be well upon the earth" on "Honest parents No. One, two, three, four. Our esteemed colleagues, our nation more than experiments on marriage and the natural family, need stability and security for future generations to know who their parents are and what the role of a man and a woman in raising children is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u86	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes for today's meeting from 17.30 to 20.15 for working reasons. Mr Bojko will now speak in the debate, Mr Kobza will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u87	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers. We all know that the problem is not just about changing the name, and precisely because it is a fairly comprehensive change and an intervention in the natural perception of human society, I am not in favour of the legislative adjustment of this change. It is also necessary to look at the way in which this change is enforced. I understand that tolerance and respect are in order. But the groups that promote these changes are not interested in human respect. Their demands are increasing and, despite registered partnerships, we should slowly start preparing for perhaps even volumes that will contain more than two people. How far is all this supposed to lead? I recently read an article about a man from the United States who suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder after serving in the military. Then he succumbed to a transgender community that used his mind and senses to be confused and forced him to imagine that she was actually a woman and that after taking hormones and surgery she would become a real woman. He didn't get surgery after all. Probably for some time yet under their flag he fought for various changes in favor of similarly confused people. Today, however, he regrets that he has basically been manipulated, and he is very much opposed to the transgender community. During the development of his knowledge, he was at a certain point in a state where he was not satisfied with the identification of the female sex, and he asked the doctor to be declared a non-binary person. But he gradually realized that instead of being helped by doctors, they harmed him more because they gave way to his pointless demands, which only supported human experimentation. Doctors have retreated from these demands possibly and probably from various social concerns and pressures from various activist groups. These situations, which are not sci-fi, but reality, really scares me and I'm not comfortable at all. I fundamentally disagree with manipulating people's minds, as it is happening in the world today, and especially with manipulating our children's and grandchildren's minds. What's happening in the media sector today is getting out of hand. At a time when an editor may be trying to raise objections, doubts, or point out negatives from real life, it is suppressed, the articles are deleted from the Internet, so that those who are not exclusive do not fall against the view. Here we come to restrict the personal freedom of expression and democracy. Homosexual couples are also interested in parenting. But I lack complexity in the proposal for a change. A woman and a man are still needed to conceive and give birth to a child, even for these reasons. As nature has arranged, I personally have a clear pattern of couple, a man plus a woman, not only physically, mentally, but also biologically. Therefore, I will not support the proposed changes. I'm still leaning towards the preference of the natural development of humanity. I understand the difficult situation of gay couples and their loved ones, and I personally treat them like everyone else. I believe they don't always have it easy. People are different and they treat each other differently. Sometimes very unhappy and unpleasant. But if someone has a biologically given orientation differently that doesn't allow a child to naturally produce and thus preserve the continuation of the family, then he should probably deal with it. That's how nature set us up. These couples should work primarily on the relationship between themselves. This is not an easy task at all to live with your partner in harmony in every situation until the end of your days. Marriage has always been seen in itself as a union between a man and a woman, and with this was also a subsequent effort to preserve the family. I myself would be in favour of the legislative alignment of certain rights of this minority of gays and lesbians. But I'd like to leave marriage as a privilege for a man and a woman. And I believe that this is also linked to the opinion of the majority society. Plus, I'm not sure if registered gay and lesbian partnerships change their names to marriage, it'll solve their lives. It's a broader social and psychological problem. The same goes for adopting children. Yeah, maybe the cost of putting children in children's homes would be cheaper for the state. But for me, the question is what impact these adoptions would have on the mental development of those children. They should realize for themselves that whether they want to, or accidentally, their ties to children could have a negative effect. [[These people]] Unfortunately, as we know, there aren't much talk about it, and there have been a few cases of child abuse in these homosexual surrogate families. If they really lack the possibility of training and handing over personal experiences, they can help unselfishly in various talents aimed at raising children and try out whether they are able to do this without prejudice to heterosexuals and whether they are ready for such a change in their personal lives, for example. and a lot of things to say for the sake of an adopted child. I don't believe everyone is prepared to accept such a change in their lives as a hundred percent. I feel and I am really afraid that this minority society is not as mature and mature as it is to approach some problems seriously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kobza, Mr Kott, will also speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a conservative working heterosexual who takes care of his family and has the future of his children at heart. We were all born through the President because our fathers and mothers were men and women. They made a marriage in which we grew up and grew up, and so did their parents and grandparents. The degradation of the sacrament - or institute - of marriage, of its application to the unions of the same sex couples, therefore, seems to me a disgrace to the legacy of our parents, whom I deeply appreciate. As a conservative patriot who values the traditional values of his civilization, I will not support changes to the Civil Code in the institution of marriage, which would undermine his definition as a union of one man and one woman. On the contrary, I will always support pro-population measures, support young families. And I appreciate working parents who properly raise their children. That's where the future of the nation is for me. Kids, that's what's going on here. Homosexual unions don't make babies. It's just like that. And adoption is so complicated for a standard family that I just can't imagine how adoption proceedings would go with gay couples. I tried it, I know what I'm talking about. I would also like to remind you that our pension system is ongoing and therefore stands on a clear proportion of beneficiaries and payers into the system. The point is, in a capid way, that children will pay their parents' pensions, and without this balance between payers and beneficiaries, the entire pension system will collapse. The expected change in the marriage institute can affect this balance by its percentage, and it can have far more far-reaching consequences than it seems at first sight. We must therefore take into account all the circumstances that this can bring and change. I'm definitely the last person who wants to deny anyone the right to choose who they want to live with and how and where. But I also refuse to let anyone dictate to me what values I should honor and what I should submit to. The solution to this discussion, which is long and has brought a lot of emotional outbursts and factual opinions, I see not in the regulation of the institution of marriage but in the legislation of the institute of registered partnership. I am of the opinion that this is a far more efficient and viable path. Ladies and gentlemen, marriage is the institute where it grew up, was created and worked by our civilization. Let's not change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr Josef Kott, Mr Ventruba will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the ongoing debate that is being held here over the draft law aimed at allowing same-sex persons to enter into marriage. Much has been said here that marriage has evolved and is no longer a lasting, unchanging union. I'm sure that's true. On the other hand, however the form of marriage develops from church to civil form, from a lasting union to a union that can be untied, its content and meaning persist throughout. It is still a union of men and women who make up a biological family in which children are born and raised. Only a male-female connection can ensure the continuity of society. And marriage is an institute that aims to stabilize this union, make it long-term and respectable. And that's why the state supports him. The existence of childless marriages, and even a high divorce rate, cannot change that. On the contrary, the greater the interest of the state in reversing such a trend and seeking ways to support the family more. The proposal for marriage to be concluded by equal sex couples is not a dispute as to whether everyone should have the same rights. I'm sure they do. When two do the same, they should have the same rights. However, what is proposed here is not equalisation. It's actually a merger of two different things under the name of one of them. This is the same in my opinion as saying in a mixed double game that it doesn't matter what the sex of tennis players who join it is. Of course it's possible, but I don't think it's just a mixed double. There was also a debate as to whether this proposal was to abolish mom and dad or gender distinction. Maybe not. On the other hand, if we add different content to an institution, we naturally change it whole. When you mix two different things, the result is logically not one of the original things, but a whole new thing. Some say maybe better, others say worse, but certainly different. And then, of course, it's too late to ask where the original thing and especially its meaning went. We know the meaning of marriage and the reason for its support from the state. However, the whole debate also said what the interest of the state is, or rather the general interest in stabilizing the long-term coexistence of the same sex couples. It's actually a personal decision by these people. And there's no reason for the state to speak into it. This is not about disrespect or even discrimination. The point is that by supporting the stability of such a union, it would only be unnecessarily built into people's lives. Some say that the very fact that two love each other is a reason to support the same sex couples. What if they like each other three, four? Should we support them, too? Bonification of one naturally always means the disadvantage of the other, the other. I mean, that's true in support of marriage. If we consider this to be discrimination, then that means that the state must not actually favour anyone at all. Let us therefore ban tax discounts on children, because they are discrimination against the childless. The desire to eliminate discrimination is an obsession of our time. And since there is not much left of the real and condemned, the task of our contemporarys is to find discrimination what happens. [[Activists?]] Even where there is none at all, and then ban it with certainty from the cheer of anti-discrimination activists. In its original meaning, discrimination means the ability to distinguish and there is no reason to damn it. On the contrary, a society that ceases to distinguish is mentally poor. The bill put forward is a proposal for us to stop distinguishing between the same sex couples and the two sex couples in marriage. And in my opinion, that's not acceptable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jiří Ventruba is next, Mr Klaus will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u93	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Publius Cornelius Tacitus, a Roman historian, lawyer and senator, when he wanted to present an objective and important opinion, used his famous proverb, a proverb, sine ira et studio, something in a sense without anger and without interest. And in this sense, I would like to read us all one of many letters with virtually the same or similar legacy, a lot of them - a letter from the young mother-to-be, so that we can see how citizens in our republic perceive it. I quote this letter. "Dear Member, I appeal to you in support of marriage between a man and a woman, as it has been known since time immemorial, and I call on you, as a member of the Chamber of Deputies, to support marriage between a man and a woman so as not only to preserve it, but also to promote its protection into constitutional order, as some other countries already have." It has already been mentioned here - Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Croatia and others. [[17.40 hours]] "I am currently married for less than a year and my husband and I are expecting a baby. We all learned that in biology class. Two different sex cells are needed to create a new life," says the expectant mother. "Two women and two men will not have a new life. Marriage between one man and one woman, in parentheses a family, thus has an irreplaceable place in human society. Children are the fruit of the love of men and women, children have the right to know their parents, their father and their mother. The functional marriage family of men and women is the best form of child education," says this future mother. According to current legislation, this marriage family represents the basic model of the family. Thank you for your responsible work for the Czech Republic." They're paying us all. "Hello, Z. ." End of the letter. I read you this request from a young future mother because her opinion of marriage and family is close to me as a father of four children and as a doctor. And I will also vote in that sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Václav Klaus will now appear, Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u95	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also say a few words on this subject. As you may know, I am one of those who signed the folklore proposal that marriage is a union between one man and one woman, so in this spirit my contribution will also be borne. Firstly, we are facing various opinion polls, where these questions have not been addressed correctly, thereby massaging the Members and the Czech public. On the contrary, I would mention a very representative survey by SANEP, where in November 2018, the representative part of 2,100 respondents clearly - 67 percent - agreed to establish marriage as a bond between men and women. On the contrary, 21.3% agreed to the law of marriage for the same sex couples. The family initiative has collected more than 100,000 physical signatures, they're already here in the House somewhere, maybe someone will bring them here to show, which is far more than the campaign from the other side. So it's just about what's going on around us, how we're bombarded with e-mails and various opinions, what supposedly the citizens of the Czech Republic want. Second thing, I'm gonna repeat myself a little bit. This modernist approach to families and marriage is once again a bit implemented from abroad. Hans Timmermans, Vice-President of the European Commission, has already made it clear that the Commission should continue and try to ensure that all Member States in the EU accept marriage and other same-sex marriages unconditionally, etc. So it's kind of from abroad that tells us what's good for our families, what's good for our society. This hacking of the legal order of the Czech Republic is, of course, also financed from abroad. Campaign We are fair has many millions of crowns from the European Union's resources, which overwhelms you here again with their opinions. Now I'm gonna say a few more general things. Marriage is not just a union of two people who love each other. Marriage is the basis for family, protecting women and children. That's one of the basic differences. Both men and women have an irreplaceable role in raising children. And marriage is not just to satisfy the needs of adults. It's more meaningful. Children also have the right to know their origins because everyone comes from men and women. With these novelties, we are crashing all these fundamental rights. Things like surrogate motherhood are all things that crash this. It's been said that the victim is often a child. Another point I want to mention - it is also a political law. He's gonna make people, and a number of you, maybe half of you, who don't agree that marriage can be created somewhere other than between a man and a woman, they're gonna turn you into radicals, homophobes, and hate criminals. It will also happen, you will face it in the media and so on. That's a thing to say no to. And we have a lot of examples of people being kicked out of school or being prevented from working in Western Europe. Husbands in the United States who refused to decorate gay people's wedding cake because of their conviction - they eventually stood up for the Supreme Court. It cost about $200,000, the whole legal defense they were running. And so on and so forth. These are things I don't want in the Czech Republic. I will mention here the presentation by Mrs Majerová Zahradníková, who had about half a million views on the social networks she said, and quoted President Roosevelt that even if you call the dog's tail feet, the dog will still remain four legs. This is how ethymologically it is, of course. Marriage from the word mural, man-woman, old Bohemia, family is from the word clan, give birth. So this other marriage, it's some kind of expression like dry water or something that we're trying to legalize here. Two. I don't think it's a gay wish. We all have a lot of friends, employees, and so on among homosexuals. It is not the majority wish of this minority, it is the wish of political activists. Back in 2006, when they were fighting for a registered partnership, they said it was just hospital visits and some basic stuff, it's definitely not about adopting children, etc. They lied. It's been a few years, we've got it live, they've moved a significant piece further. But again, it's not the majority position of homosexuals. They have no right to speak for them, just as I have no right to speak for all heterosexuals, because many of you have different opinions than I do, and the other way around. Third, the word tolerance rotates around here. It's the exact opposite. The Czech Republic and our country are among the most tolerant in relation to homosexual and other minorities. Austria-Hungary was perhaps the first country to abolish the death penalty for homosexual behavior. Czechoslovakia was one of the first countries in the world to stop being criminal. But here is really the basic difference in not doing something to someone, at which point I would be on the other side, or giving something to someone else, so it's completely reversed. If we were talking about denying somebody some basic civil rights, I'm behind it, but here we add a new right, a right to call a five-tailed dog... It's just other stuff. And those activists who are bombing us with these e-mails and these meetings -- not me, I don't know what I deserved, but most of you colleagues, I've seen -- they're just not tolerant. Why do you bother us with your sexuality, we've been discussing it for ten hours, that's just every thing, homosexuals have all the rights defended by the Constitution, and there's no reason to add anything else, something that most Czech citizens don't want, and I hope most Members do. I would say to the plaintiff - you divide society by this law. This law had no public support, no homosexuals, no other citizens. You bring it here activistly, divide the House and divide the Czech Republic. So I am asking you to withdraw the proposal because it would contribute to peace and we could focus on other things that are more necessary for the Czech Republic. The motion to dismiss has already passed, so I don't have to say it again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Skopeček will now speak in the debate, Mrs Melková will be prepared. Sorry. There is a factual remark from Mr Martínek, to whom I give my word with an apology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond here again to those surveys that Mr. Klaus here mentions as a great, Internet survey for SANEP, which was attended by 2,000 people. So here I have a great online poll organized by KDU-ČSL, which I don't think can be blamed for wanting to promote marriage for all those who participated in more than 32,000 votes, and there 72 percent of people voted to support marriage for all. So please, let's use the data objectively and not just what we need.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jurečka, Výborný and Mrs Maxová, will respond to further factual remarks. Mr. Jurečka has the floor. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. I also ask for peace near the riverbed so that everyone can say what they need and consider necessary. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u99	Mr President, colleagues, I am duly logged in to the debate, but the speech by my previous speaker, who started here to talk about polls, including polls on social networks, did not allow me to perform here. I think who has graduated at least from high school or university and is concerned with public opinion on questions about research and the functioning of social networks, so he knows that he cannot consider a relevant survey on social networks here. As a KDU-ČSL, we also explained here that it was simply a survey that was supposed to provoke discussion, interaction, as well as social networking algorithms work. It's hard to interpret the result here in this way. Among other things, because a large part of the rest of the gay community also wrote among themselves, including foreign actors, calls for these polls to go and vote. In the context of this, I don't consider the result, the roughly 30% for supporting marriage as a union of one man, woman and children as a traditional family, to be bad at all. But I would still be here, I wouldn't be doing it, I could use the poll that the SPD did, which then downloaded it, about whether the Czech Republic was to accept 14 orphans, and the poll came out - 80 percent of those who voted in this poll were in favour. We'll be in the attic. The Chamber of Deputies say that these are relevant data? I hope it's not pirát politics. That you're not that populist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Výborný's turn with a point of fact, after which Mrs Maxová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm really surprised that this factual point came from the pirát. I really thought pirates knew and knew how social networks work, how polls and polls work. And he said it very clearly and clearly Jurečka front of me. We really are a party of value, conservative, and we don't have to do any polls and polls on things that affect values. We also made it clear that way. We said it's not a poll that we should or shouldn't be convinced of whether or not we should defend something. In the finals and the result, when 30 percent of the participants made it clear, that's also the group that somebody has to stand up for, and we did it. So please don't interpret the results here. And I really don't think we're here to pitch polls. Yesterday he also came out somehow, and I didn't use him here in the debate or in my contribution, because we're really not here to repress polls on social networks, public opinion polls, but we're here to engage in factual debate. [[Nesroz.]] And we don't need any research to do that. I'd like the pirates to understand that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u102	Thank you. Mrs Maxová, after that, Mr Martínek. Real notes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad that a colleague of the Výborný has spoken here - let us engage in a substantive debate. Thank you for that. I hope we continue with it. Rights, obligations, not symbols and so on. We can drag ourselves through various surveys here, whether we or you, through various studies, for, against, I can argue here that the study that you're arguing here had fundamental methodological flaws, which, of course, these two studies, which are from a workshop of a certain type of people, which discredited them. So please, let's stop arguing with the polls here, because we each have our own side of the polls. I would like to send a message to my colleague Klaus through the President: I am not splitting up the company. I deal with practical things. I'm not an activist. And because I know it's causing trouble for people and children, and I'm going to repeat the maintenance here again, it just doesn't matter to me! If you don't care, you're splitting up the company. Not me. And let's be factual and do practical things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u104	Thank you. Mr Martínek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u105	If you've noticed, I've never started the polls. I've always responded to someone who used some kind of research so that it doesn't sound just from one side of manipulative facts to one side. Here, two types of surveys are used, which are based in some way, but no one says surveys such as 2018 CVVM or Median, which are based with 65 percent support, such as the Median, to support marriage for all. I just want to, if, let's not use it anymore, I only used it as an addition in fact because someone used it, or then everyone has to use it because I don't want to deceive the public. There's just some opinion, and the polls come out in different ways. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u106	Thank you. We continue with factual remarks. Mr Jurečka, Mr Juchelka after him. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u107	Thank you. First of all, I am convinced as a conservative politician that I am not here to vote on the basis of public opinion polls. I can take them into account in my work, I listen to voters, I talk to them, and I communicate. But if we take your rhetoric from the pirát, then we don't have to sit here. Half our time we can play by how public opinion polls come out, and that legislation can go through. I think the difference between a regular, dozen politician, and history has shown it, and the state's behavior is that most of those statesmen have been able to change the course of history because they have managed to tear the public into what they believed and have managed to save a lot of things in the last century. That's what I think is what politics really does to politicians, and it's promoting him to the category of statesman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u108	Thank you. Mr Juchelka, Mr Ferjenčík after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u109	I would like to respond with my point of fact, Mr President, my fellow Members, to the previous speaker, Mrs Maxová, through you. There's been a two-time announcement about maintenance. So we normally know that every kid whose parents' relationship may fall apart, so the trial simply determines his father or mother's maintenance. If the child shows up with, say, gay couples who aren't registered with one of the parents on their birth certificate, then we can do this differently, but we don't have to get married because of it. It's a simple thing. And it's simply the responsibility of everyone who brings their children into the world to sign up in a matrix like a father and a mother. If that's not possible, let's sort it out in some way, but we certainly don't have to open up a marriage for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u110	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, a factual point, after which Mr Výborný also with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u111	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to point out to my colleagues that my colleague Martínek here pointed out that the SANEP agency is not very trustworthy and that his supposed surveys are comparable to Facebook polls. That was the point of his contribution. I think he doesn't think that Facebook polls are a representative voter statement or anything like that, he just pointed out that using an agency that, for example, lets the SPD pay millions of dollars as an argument in this debate is not entirely appropriate. I guess that's all there is to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u112	Thank you. Mr. Výborný has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u113	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Once again, through you to my colleague Martínek. I haven't done any research here today, nor of Sanep, nor Median, or anyone else. Again, I am a conservative politician, and I will not make decisions in public opinion or in a survey, no matter who it is from. But about what you mentioned here to look at the research of, for example, the Mediana. So just so everyone knows that the public knows, yes, even the survey ordered by Median was significantly suggestive and the result was given, for example, by the fact that the question that was there, and now I will quote if the question begins with the words "when two people love each other" and so on, well, of course, it is a suggestive question that logically implies a positive answer. And then you have the result that you interpret here as 70- or 75-percent public support for same-sex marriages. So I'd really like to leave the polls, because even the Mediana survey ordered by the initiative. We are fair was significantly, significantly shifted thanks to the suggestively asked question. You can fake every survey so that it works out the way you need it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u114	Thank you. Mr Martínek, Mr Nacher after him, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u115	I'm just going to repeat briefly. I really didn't want to use any surveys, but I always used it as a follow-up to a speaker who used some research so that it didn't just sound unilaterally, as the previous speaker tried to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u116	Thank you. Mr Nacher, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u117	Thank you for the floor. Well, it's kind of funny right now - if my colleague listened to me - with the polls. I remember when I had my first performance on this topic in Events, comments, so on the survey that was strongly for, the host at the time built the barbecue where she grilled me, that when it's 70 percent for, as much as I can afford to be against. I said that even 70 percent of people were in favour of the death penalty and I didn't vote for it because I didn't follow the polls, and I also said that in my speech today. And then everyone was throwing me out that 70 percent of people aren't on death row anymore, because it's only 58. So I just used the analogy. In other words, what I mean is, let's agree that we're not going to present these surveys here at all, we're not going to argue with them at all. But it would be good to really follow this from the start. Because as long as the polls were just like this, it was argued. And look really at the events, the comments, how I got there by the ears for it. Now that they're on both sides, it's just as relativizing as it is. That means, let's make a deal, we've got our heads here, which is why I told everyone to come out of the hallways here to make sure the arguments are here, not the polls. Anyone who knows the series Sure, Minister, knows how to do such research. And there doesn't have to be a suggestive question, it can be a whole series of questions where at the end it is, if you're up for rebooting a mandatory war, for example, if you remember. So here's the deal. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. President Bartošek apologizes for today's meeting from 18:00 for work reasons. It is now Mr Skopeček's turn in the general debate, and Mrs Melková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u119	Thank you for the floor. I apologize in advance for my voice indisposition, and if I cough, there's a risk that I won't finish my speech, so I'll at least try to shorten it to a few notes. And in case I fail, I'll at least send you my arguments. Of course, I'm defending a traditional family. I have co-signed a law that wants to anchor the family as a union of men and women as a constitutional principle. Why? Because I consider the family to be an elementary and basic building unit of every company, and it is for me an institute that has examined the history of generations ahead of us for hundreds of years. I would also like to call on you to pay real attention to this subject, because it is, in my view, a very fundamental subject, perhaps the most important topic in this parliamentary term. Because if we do a bad economic policy, the next government can fix it. Today's complicated and high taxes will certainly be corrected, I hope, by the future right-wing government that will rule here. These things are repairable. But if we dismantle and dismantle the institution of a traditional family today, and the traditional family loses their high status in the rule of law, no one will ever return it and the damage it will do, no one will ever come back. I would also like to call on you not to be subject to lobby interest groups, which are trying to tell you vehemently that this is about eliminating discrimination and that it is about liberalisation. It's not true. There's no way that's true. There is no elimination of discrimination on this subject. The elimination of discrimination against individuals with homosexual orientation, detabusizing this orientation, and in the broader sense of liberalisation, has been taking place in our country since the 1960s, both in legislative terms and in terms of the perception of this orientation by majority societies. Thanks to this process, for which I am glad, there is no discrimination against gay couples today. And it's good. It's nobody's business, and not the state at all, who and who he lives with, who he treats his private life with. I'd be the first to object to any interpersonal relations and private interference. This is not about eliminating discrimination from the logic of the matter when there is no discrimination, nor is it about liberalisation. It's just the opposite. It is about extending the privilege, it is about expanding the state's influence on how it will regulate the other form of interpersonal relations that exist in society. It is a difference to liberalize, that is, to eliminate state regulation, or, on the contrary, we want to expand and squeeze in another form of interpersonal relations. And that's the point with the plaintiffs who are trying to legalize the marriage of the same sex couples. It is not liberalisation, it is, on the contrary, the expansion of state regulation. For liberals translated, if approved, the influence of the state will not decrease, but will increase. Thus, not only a conservative, but also a real classic, not a progressive liberal, cannot vote for this change. The question is whether the same sexual couples deserve the same privileges, the same state regulation as the traditional family. I don't think, apart from the traditional family of women and men, any form of interpersonal relations deserves exclusivity or regulation by the state, as is customary for the family today. Marriage, or traditional family, enjoys privileges from the state for one simple reason. The reason is not that two heterosexual people want to officially confirm their love or throw a wedding party. This is a much less important and side effect of marriage. As part of an official marriage, the state regulates the relationships of two people, restricts their free decisions and imposes a number of responsibilities on them for one simple reason. The state enters into a relationship between two people to create, guarantee and protect an environment for stable and healthy development and child education. Which is the main purpose and task of the family. Even knowing that not all married couples are lucky enough to conceive their own children. Children's protection, the stability of the environment in which they grow up, that is the main reason why the state defines the family, gives it privileges, but also imposes obligations on its members and limits their freedom. Not by any chance is the word family derived from the word to give birth. No way marriage refers to the words of a man and a woman. Trying to revolutionize these natural attributes of the world, trying to defy biological laws is foreign to me and I am unable to support them. For me, the traditional family of men and women is the most natural environment for raising children, and no other form can replace it in this. Of course, we can find a number of dysfunctional families, families where even children are abused. But these reprehensible excesses cannot be an argument for damning the traditional family itself. I believe that a man and a woman are not only the only combination capable of producing and giving birth to children, but also the best and the only combination for me to be entrusted to children to raise. Colleagues, I would like to ask you not to win the pride of reason on this subject, so that we do not play social engineers, so that we have respect for the centuries-tested institution of the traditional family and have no nerve to break it. Please respect nature. [[18.10 hours]] In today's value-empty and knotty times, where they can choose, where sex is no longer a biological tax, but a social construct where left-wing progressives try to tell us that we can choose or change sex within a social construct during our lives, at a time when we replace mother and father's terms as parent one and parent two, in my opinion, it is the right time to be vigilant about one of the basic building elements of society, i.e. the family, in any way threatening its dilution. To conclude, I would like to ask the liberals sitting in this hall not to extend state regulation to same-sex couples, not to increase the influence of the state. Conservatives, in turn, ask you not to change and dismantle generations and centuries-tested institutions that are the cornerstone of society. And you left-wing progressive liberals, I beg you to have at least a little respect for the natural and biological laws of our world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u120	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual point, Mr Bartoň is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Skopeček, through Mr President, has spoken here for a long time and there will be seven additional contributions and other final words in the debate. It is more or less clear that we will not close this point within seven hours. Therefore, I would ask for a procedural vote to suspend this merged debate on points 37 and 38 - interruptions to date, today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u122	I confess, Mr. Ambassador, that I do not understand your proposal. I guess I'm not alone. Please, if you could just...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u123	I am filing a procedural request for a vote to suspend this item. [[Reactions from the O.R.: Until when?]] Until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u124	I understand that you are proposing a suspension of this point. And we still have to figure out when. So, until tomorrow's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u125	Yes. Since it would have to be proposed and approved by tomorrow, probably by the next meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-26-ps2017-027-09-004-901.u126	Okay, by the next meeting. We can vote on that. So I'll call in the MPs who aren't in the O.R. At the same time, I'm going to unsubscribe you all because I hear such a request. Please sign up again with your voting cards. I would remind you that the Member has proposed that we interrupt both points, respectively. interrupt the merged debate and return to discuss these points at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will now vote on this. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 303, registered by 126 Members, for 65, against 10. The motion was accepted. We interrupt both these points until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Initiating item number
