ParlaMint-CZ_2019-06-26-ps2017-032-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 32nd session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I'll ask you to settle down in your seats. I'll ask you to remain calm in the hall. I'm going to sign you all out now and ask you to sign in, and present you at today's meeting, or tell me who's asking for a replacement card. At this point, with replacement card number 10, Mr Holomčík votes, I have a report. [[Noise in the hall.]] Well, I'll just wait a little longer really... Mrs Dostálová and Minister Dostálová vote with replacement card number 12. The meeting has really begun. I'm going to ask you to act accordingly. The meeting was convened by Section 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 21 June of this year. And now, at the beginning of the meeting, we will proceed to the designation of two meeting verifiers. I propose that we designate Jana Černochová and Mr Petra Vrána. Does anyone else have a proposal for verifiers? I don't see anybody coming forward, so we're gonna vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's for the proposed verifiers. Who's against it? Voting number one. At the moment 133 Members are registered, for 132, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated the 32nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as a Member of the Chamber of Deputies Jana Černochová and a Member of Petr Vrána. I agree that the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Andrea Babišová - personal reasons, Jiří Běhounek - working reasons, Josef Hájek from 10 to 14 hours - health reasons, Radek Koten - health reasons, Pavel Kováčik within 12 hours - foreign travel, Martin Kupka within 12 hours - working reasons, Helena Langšádlová from 10 to 12 hours - working reasons, Jana Levová - medical reasons, Taťána Malá within 15 hours - family reasons, Patrik Nacher within 14 hours - family reasons, Ivana Nevludová within 12 hours - personal reasons, Vojtěch Pikal until 11.30 - working reasons, Michal Ratiborský - foreign travel, Kateřina Valachová - family reasons, Lubomír Volný within 12 hours - personal reasons, Ivo Vondrák - foreign travel, Václav Votava - working grounds. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic can now proceed to discuss a single item on the agenda of the 32nd meeting. It's him.
