ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 245 and 246 of the House Press 113 and 114/ We dealt with these Houses of Press on 11 July 2019 at the 33rd meeting. I am talking about two thousand together because we have interrupted the merged general debate. It is precisely in this merged general debate on these two prints that we will now continue. I would ask that the rapporteurs of the electoral committee take the seats at the rapporteur's table, which is, in the case of the press, 113 Mr Petr Dolínek, and in the case of the Parliamentary press, 114 this is the seat of Mr Patrik Nacher, Mrs Barbora Kořanová. So now we will continue the merged debate. There is no written application. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. He's reporting for a debate... Mr. Juříček reporting? You have your word, even though you have applied in writing, and it has not yet appeared, I will, of course, give you my word. [[A silence.]] I gave the floor to the Member before there were written applications which, of course, have priority, so I have already given the floor to the Member and the written applications have not been available. Well, I'll stick with that. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the topic of Czech television's economy came up, of course I also looked at it, and I found very briefly that something is not right here in the state of Denmark. Then, in order not to be accused of any bias, I commissioned my own independent external audit on the Czech Television's management. At the same time, I asked them as basic questions, which I thought were absolutely essential. And the first question I asked the auditors was whether the management of Czech Television is balanced or deficit. I knew it was deficit because if you look at trends from 2011 to 2018, those trends are absolutely obvious. The results, without wanting to interfere in the functioning of Czech Television, are absolutely obvious. During this period, although we are talking about the annual reports of 2016 and 2017, but I say that the trends are absolutely fundamental, from Czech Television, from its financial assets, in other words, the bank accounts have about CZK 2 billion. The 2 billion crowns are due to the fact that, of course, the Czech Television's management is really deficient. If you look at the results of 2016 and 2017, you see about half a billion losses there every year in the current year, which, however, is offset by the fact that it is offset by a television fee fund. These are the fundamental things that led me, of course, to look at the entire Czech TV business in more detail and more detail and to come across more and more doubts. No doubt, but just a number is a number, and as I said at the seminar, which was initiated by Czech Television, at which about 60 Members attended, so I asked questions there, and basically none of those questions were answered by the Czech Television Council, which is actually a Czech Television control body. They answered completely formally and were unable to answer any specific question I asked. The number is a number, especially when it's run by a perfectly correct Ernst and Young audit, I don't see the problem at all, it's just an audit organization that writes down that you do everything right, you do everything right. And it is not a question of whether the Czech Television asked them whether the Czech Television's management is thus sustainable in a given state in the future. But they just did an accounting audit. And we all know what an accounting audit is. Of course, they'll level the law and level the numbers if they match reality. And that's consistent with reality. That's why I absolutely trust Ernst and Young's audit, as much as I trust what I've found myself, because, of course, I've been doing this business for years. Although I admit that Czech TV is not a classic business. But for the fact that it has 7 billion - roughly, less than 7 billion - turnover, so that each year it loses about half a billion, somewhere between 300 and 500 million each year, and has been doing (?) It's an overlay of the TV fee fund and its financial assets, so it's alarming for all of you. Because it's public money, it's concessionaire money. And, of course, when you read the individual reports, it's basically explicitly written that if licence fees don't rise very soon, then Czech Television will have a practically crisis-driven management. And if we look at the individual amounts, as I said, e.g. financial assets from 3.8 billion, I'm not going to say exactly the specifics here, which I know exactly, so now they have CZK 1.8 billion on assets, or on financial assets. At the same time, when you look at the balance sheet, they have commitments by 2022 and beyond, which is another issue of question mark, so they are primarily contracted by sports transmissions, which we all no doubt welcome, but those liabilities are of CZK 1.2 billion, roughly. And if you look, which they also admitted at the seminar, which will cost them the transfer of television to DBT2, they admitted that these investments would be roughly CZK 1.4 billion. So you can see that from the point of view of cash flow, this situation is, of course, unsustainable in the long term, unless management, or the Council of Czech Television, leads management to the need to save half a billion crowns each year. It is necessary to realize a number of essential things that I could not even intervene in, of course, and that is, in what state are the purchases of individual services, of individual items, because e.g. in other services they have CZK 418 million in 2018. It is also necessary to see why claims have more than 365 days of roughly 37 million in 2016, 36 million in 2017 and 35 million in 2018, and are subject to adjustments each year. How is it possible that management doesn't collect this money from its debtors? So that's in terms of the balance sheet itself. From the perspective of the profit and loss account itself, when you look at it, it is clear that what was declared by the Council of Czech Television that the management is balanced, it is not true, it is deficit. And in the end, you'll also see that it's deficit. Because there are specific amounts. So what about it? At the seminar I asked specific questions, the words fell quite wide, I would say that it was more of a character that the Czech Television Council is more of a panoptics of people who play to control the director of Czech Television in some way. I do not question their professionalism in its individual parts. I question professionalism in that they are supposed to control the management of Czech television and perhaps some strategic direction, and it is quite evident that they have not proved it. When you look at the depreciation itself, depreciation is CZK 3.4 billion in the last seven years and investment is CZK 3 billion. So even the information that Czech Television invests significantly is false. She's eating herself up. When I look at the audit result that I entered, repeat again, enter it and pay it out of my own money, the answer to my first question, whether the management is balanced or deficit, it is written clearly - from the perspective of the legislation, the management can be classified as balanced. It should be noted, however, that from the perspective of the real economy, from a business point of view, costs from the savings sources of past periods are covered, and there is a marked decline in these resources when self-catering occurs. In other words, the Czech TV really lives from the past, lives by nature, and as I said, if it does not save half a billion a year, it will be very soon clear that over the next two to three years it will affect all citizens in the Czech Republic who have television and will have to be picked up by licence fees. [[11.20 hours]] That's right. I don't want to criticize Czech TV for whatever they do. I'm just still talking about the facts that are based on the annual report. And I think that in this it is quite clear that I, for the Czech Television's economy, even though it is marked in 2016, 2017, really cannot vote. This isn't right. What Czech Television has, of course, for some problems that may not be bound entirely by management itself, it is necessary to correctly say that they have some of the residues of the past, for example, that they have a fire department of 50 members, that they have Kavčí Mountains, which are necessary. And I don't understand why they still haven't come up with the idea of moving into one building. Today, the whole world is digitized. Why do they keep employing 3,000 employees permanently? Just for the record, wages are made by Czech Television for tribal employees 33 percent. And on top of that, there are thousands of other outsiders who I can't evaluate from those annual reports how much each of them takes. So the whole picture actually points to the very clear things that I would sum up to about the next four points, maybe five points. It's, say, a deadly mix of a slow-death organization. I already said the first point, these are liabilities that amount to approximately CZK 1.2 billion. The second item is depreciation versus investment, I already talked about it, plus the operating costs of the investment itself. The third issue is what is quite obvious, and you see it in three minutes when you look at it, and that's the decline in financial assets by approximately CZK 2 billion since 2011. Employee wages alone 33 percent of total earnings, which is clear that if it is not a software company or some creative company, no company in the world will survive with 33 percent of wage costs. And then there are such interesting items as other services that are needed in the amount of 408 million. And we could dissect it further and further and stretch it into all the living single blood of the organs in that society, and in each I would find some error, or, let's say, some quite inefficientness. And this is my overall assessment, which is supported by the independent audit, which, of course, is the easiest to question. But I'm sure no one will question me, because I think I understand. And I have one more thing to admit, because you all knew, and each of you stopped me here, that Mr. Dvořák approached me to see if you could make an appointment with me yesterday. Of course, I'm not the kind of person who would hide from anyone, so I made an appointment with him. And I criticized him a lot harder than what I'm saying here in the House, because I know a number of other and other details that I don't think are fair enough to publish here at all, because some things like the rewards of balanced management, it would seem beneath the threshold to me to talk to you about the rewards they paid for there. But the overall picture is quite obvious and it is really necessary to make a turn around with the Czech TV and it is necessary to establish order on Czech TV. Of course, someone can say that the mess is in a number of different state or semi-state organizations. That is, of course, possible. But now we're talking about Czech TV. And if anyone wants to hear the truth, I tried to convey it to you. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u3	Thank you. Thank you. I note that Mr Jan Skopeček will vote with the replacement card number 20. And now I beg the generosity of those who have come forward with a point of fact. We have found in the process that before the merged debate, the Committee's rapporteur had the opportunity to speak on the annual activity report, but he did not have the opportunity to speak on the annual report on Czech Television, the rapporteur, in this case today, on the Committee's annual management report. So to make amends, I will now give the floor to Mrs Kořanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u4	Thank you for the floor. He wouldn't have forgiven my colleague Nacher. Ladies and gentlemen, the annual management report provides a summary of the Czech Television's management in 2016. The report shall be divided into ten chapters and five annexes. The annual report also includes the annual accounts and the independent auditor Ernst and Young's report, which issued the "no reservations' statement. After the opening word of the CEO and after the basic data on the Czech Television's management, a part of the introduction is being moved forward, including the myths and facts of the Czech Television's management. This seems to be a response to questions on several topics that resonate with the public and the media world, in particular the topic of the television charging fund. The auditor's report mentions that accounting legislation does not address the method of drawing the fund into the profit and loss account and follows the internal directive. Czech Television's revenue was 6.26 billion CZK in 2016 without revenue from the sale of buildings in Brno. Czech TV managed with lower costs by CZK 101 million. We did not find significant economic indicators in the chapter of Czech Television, or our colleague Nacher did not find a graph of the cost of production and broadcasting from a global point of view, nor did the cash flow graph, which is part of the annual report for 2015. In the 2016 Annual Report, we will find costs converted into one hour of production. These were CZK 379,000 in 2016, i.e. more than in 2015 and 2014, but by 5.5 percent less than in 2012. The revenues from commercial activities were 708 million, i.e. significantly more than in previous years. 2016 was 620. Chapters three to seven contain an assessment of the economic results. The financial assets at the end of 2016 were 2,341 billion. The costs and revenues were actually around 1 % lower than the budget originally proposed and amounted to six billion eight hundred and thirty-seven hundred and eighty-nine crowns. Income. Interesting is the sales chart for its own performances. By jumping, sales from sponsorship increased to 358 million, after the decline, sales from sales of rights increased slowly to 232 million, and especially after five years, sales for advertising increased significantly by 117 million, which is the most since 2012. As far as costs are concerned, annual cost growth, the item purchased by television rights, is worth mentioning, by 32 percent. It's because of the summer Olympics and the European Football Championship. Annually there was a decline in the item fee, namely by 4 %, and, on the contrary, an increase in the item correction, by 17 %. Chapter four - not numerically marked sub-chapters production and broadcasting. In this part of the annual report, it is worth mentioning the year-on-year comparison of broadcast programmes. Although there was a year-on-year increase in broadcast hours, 44 142 hours of shows, but in the Prime Minister's case it is the opposite, 17 193 hours. In principle, all types of programmes have seen an increase, except for documentary programmes. As regards the number of employees, the number is set at 2,913, it is a slight increase, but the total number of employees is lower than in 2013. The average wage was CZK 38,669. [[11.30 hours]] With regard to television fees, the annual reduction of registered receivers by 14,000, while the income from the charges was 70 million higher, for the first time after six years. Television fee fund - creation is 5 697 730, drawing 5 835 725. The auditor's statement was issued - without reservation. As far as internal audit is concerned, there have been 12 audits, namely 3 extraordinary, 81 corrective measures, which we will see in the report in 2017. The annual report for 2015 contains a more detailed breakdown of the audits carried out by the Internal Audit Service. An overview of the period 2017 to 2021. Czech television will be able to finance its activities without increasing the TV charges if there are no negative changes in legislation and macroeconomic variables. Finally, I repeat that Czech Television's 2016 management was confirmed by an independent auditor who issued the report - without reservations. As regards the resolution of the Election Committee, the Election Committee discussed this at its 5th meeting on 27 March 2018 and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the 2016 annual report. That's how much the news report has and its summary, and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have thus corrected some omissions from the 33rd meeting, and we can now continue the merged general debate. Before I give the floor to the other speakers, I note that Mr Votava, who apologized for the morning meeting, is canceling his apology because he is already present. Just to make sure the next procedure is clear, Mr Plzák, Mr Kalousek, Mr Sklenák, Mr Lipavský, Mr Okamura will now speak in this order, and then President Faltýnek will speak with priority in front of the speakers in the debate that is in writing. Mr Plzák's point of order is next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I signed up for a factual comment concerning the performance of my colleague Juříček, because she also concerns the audit assessment of the Czech Television's management in 2016 and 2017, which he had made, which he paid for, and his kindness got me to use or to look at. This assessment is really done in the form of questions to which there are specific answers after processing. I don't want to renegotiate, it's just a point of fact. But I want all Members here to hear what is there as a warning button. You can believe it, of course you didn't have a chance to look into the report, you don't have to believe it. I quote one question here: Is the user able solely to assess, on the basis of the annual reports on the Czech Television's management, whether the entity disposes of public funds according to all legal standards? This is particularly the case with Laws No. 134/2016 Coll., Public Procurement Act. The answer after the assessment is clear: The annual report on the management of Czech Television does not provide sufficient basis for the possibility of deciding whether the entity deals with public funds according to all legal standards. I want you all to hear it, and I will vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u7	Thank you. President Kalousek with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Member, the rapporteur, Juříček, has introduced us to his reservations on the balance of Czech television's finances. Some of these arguments must certainly be taken seriously, after all, I have rarely seen a balance sheet that is completely flawless. However, the arguments are being raised at the moment when the draft State Budget Act and the draft State Final Account are sitting on our table. And if I compare these two documents, the economics of Czech television and the state budget, it's about the same as the Garden of Eden on the one hand and the uncleaned public toilets after New Year's Eve on the other! If Juříček says that he lives by definition on Czech television, then the state budget lives from the future. If Mr Juříček warns that in a few years' time, licence fees would have to be raised to balance the Czech Television budget, you are raising taxes dramatically in order to maintain a deficit of at least CZK 40 billion. Where does this hypocrisy Juříček from when you do not vote for the Czech Television, but you defend the state budget and vote for it? Where do you come from, Mr Juříček, through Mr President, the arrogance towards taxpayers that you are able, on the one hand, to pillage hundreds of thousands and, on the other hand, to tolerate tens of billions?! I consider your arguments completely false, purposeful and hypocritical, and I regard you as a completely untrustworthy rapporteur!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u9	Thank you. Mr Sklenák with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would also like to respond with a few comments to Mr Juříček's speech. First of all, I would like to ask him very urgently not to refer to the members of the board as some sort of panoptics. I think, if we look at the resumes of all the board members, they are respectable people who have already done something in life, and among other things, they have been elected by this Chamber of Deputies. So, please, let's not be so picky about them. And then in the time I have, in those two minutes... At least Mr. Juříček said something about telling us the truth here. I've been to that seminar, too, so I see it in a completely different way. I think that all the questions that were raised there were answered, but apparently some didn't listen. So I'm begging you to do the so-called. deficit management. Listen carefully, don't let this happen again, because I assume a number of you are ready to repeat it again. The situation arose between 2008 and 2011, when licence fees were increased quite significantly and, at the same time, Czech Television still had quite a lot of advertising revenue, which was then no longer possible to broadcast. And so it happened that in 2011, the state of the funds available in the accounts was 3.68 billion. Just like what the Czech TV was supposed to do about it, so it wouldn't be so called management. Deficient? Was she supposed to leave it lying around or return it to the dealers? They have decided, of course, quite rightly that the money will be invested in the coming years. Not that they will consume them by ordinary creation, but they will invest them. And so, among other things, a brand new TV studio was created in Brno and its equipment was acquired -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u11	Sorry, Mr. Ambassador, time's up. [[A Member of the Glass thanks you.]] Thank you, too. Mr Lipavský, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mr Juříček's contribution. There were a lot of arguments and information about the audit, but the audit is not public. It's hard to react to that. So show it to us, publish it, send it out, give it to the media, so we know what we're talking about, so we know what the real quality of this document is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u13	Thank you. Mr Okamura, Vice-President of the House of Okamura, and then Mr Foldyna and President Bartošek's factual remarks will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to Mr Juříček's speech. He is certainly a man with enormous business and economic experience, and he has built a successful company and I think he deserves respect. What interested me, of course, is that Mr Juříček informed us very rightly here about the meeting, when he was secretly approached by the director of Czech Television Dvořák and lobbied for selected members of the ANO movement, because their voices today matter whether or not the report will be approved today. But where is Director Dvořák? Where is Czech Television? Where is it on the news today that the director of Czech Television is backstage calling and lobbying in secret to persuade them to vote in favour of the report? Where are the Czech News Agency? Where's the 168-hour show? Where's Newsroom? [[Laughter on the left.]] That's what shocked me here! That's shocking. [[11.40 hours]] So I am calling on the Czech Television to record this report on the main news today, today let it run on ČT 24, that the CEO of Czech Television lobbied and lobbied on selected members of the ANO movement secretly, backstage, for the approval of the Czech Television report. That's the main message we heard here today. This is the work of Czech Television, it is its transparency! And I think we should all strongly oppose it, because that is not the way it is possible. And I expect that this meeting will be kept informed, as Mr Juříček here, fairly speaking in front of everyone, there is nothing to be ashamed of, that it will be in the Newsroom Newsroom and 168 hours. And let me just remind you that the SPD movement passed a bill on Tuesday to abolish the licence fees, and I think it's quite appropriate here. We propose that this be a state contribution organization under the control of the Supreme Audit Office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u15	Thank you. Mr Foldyna, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u16	Thank you for the floor, thank you for the floor. I listened carefully to my colleague's report for the committee, the rapporteur, I listened carefully to Mr Juříček's report and then, unfortunately, I have to respond to my colleague. We're from the same side with Roman Sklenák, we've been to the same seminar, but we've all seen a completely different seminar, apparently. [[Laughs in the hall.]] That's what I have to say here! You've read it in the news and the newspaper interviews. And whoever was there was listening. The Czech Television Council couldn't answer anything! She didn't answer anything. And the word panoptics, I don't think there's any big insult. Mr. Juříček here said exactly what one has to say, who has a brain in his head and who thinks about the whole thing. Let's not get ahead of ourselves! This isn't about the publicity of Czech TV, this is about the management! This is where the numbers are added up, and the result is twisted! And it is clear that the committee was doing this in a very different way than MP Juříček and many of us. So please don't make us do something here that we'd have to feel bad about afterwards, because, as you know, these things are very imperfect! So that's what I wanted as one comment about it. And I thank my colleague Juříček for presenting a technical matter here, a professionally processed view of the so-called. a report from the Czech Television Council. Because it looks like it's a message from someone else entirely. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u17	With a point of fact, now President Bartošek, after whom Minister Zaorálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, I will follow up on Mr Foldyna's speech through you. Mr. Ambassador, you're right, I really feel that you two are on a different side of your mind. While I know Mr Sklenák as a Social Democrat, including opinions and values, I think it really is like when representatives of two different parties meet. About so-called Mr Juříček's audit report: If you pay any report from private money, there is no known methodology for this if auditors are unable to enter the economy and look inside the documents, it is a document which is completely irrelevant, unspeakable and I will not take it into account because the starting points on which this audit report is based are not relevant. The only thing that makes sense and what to deal with is the House documents, not some pseudo-analysis or pseudo-audit that you present here to claim to be trustworthy. Otherwise, when we talk about how Czech TV is managing or failing and how much extra money it spends, I assume you know the document that it talks and is from 2016, about the fact that public service, public media can hold maximum, virtually. revenue costs can only be considered as an amount of up to 10 per cent of the annual expenditure included in the public service budget. The excess compensation above this limit should be refunded immediately, according to the communication. That is, the Ministry of Culture has dealt with this, there has been an agreement that will reduce these reserves, and that is one of the reasons why this amount has decreased. [[Attention on time.]] And it was in agreement with the Ministry of Culture. Get all relevant information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u19	Thank you. The following will now be the procedure: factual remarks by Minister Zaorálek, Mr Juříček, Mr Foldyna, Mrs Němcová, Mr Plzák. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u20	Thank you. I wish you a good morning, too. I'm sorry I didn't have the audit report Mr. Juříček mentioned in my hand, so I don't know it. Nobody's been lobbying for me. I would also like to say that I was just familiar with the course of the seminar that was going on here because I could not attend it, but I had quite detailed information about what was going on there. And here I would like to finish what Mr. Roman Sklenák didn't finish. Because, contrary to what was said here, no one answered anything, so I found a pretty understandable answer for myself. And I think it's a shame Roman Sklenák didn't finish it. Because I also saw in those answers that, on the one hand, a myth of some reserve fund of Czech television was created here. There was never such a thing, because the CT can't even create a reserve fund, as I understand from the answers. That there was a relatively favourable situation here in 2008 to 2011, thanks to which 3.6 billion were gathered. Well, it's not true, as Mr. Juříček said in the performance, that some two billion disappeared there. They were invested, and that's not what Mr. Roman Sklenák said. They were invested in the studio in Brno, both in the children's canal and in the repair of quite a lot of already bad buildings Kavčích hory, air conditioning. And that's where I found the clear answer to where the money went. So it's not true they disappeared, it wasn't a reserve fund. Plus, from what I read in the report, I understood that the board really did, and she said it at the speech during the debate that they guaranteed that there was nothing to eat, that 90 percent always went out of the fees and 10 percent of the business. It means some myth that he succeeded so that something was eating, it seems to me that it was answered clearly for me. So I understand that, and I don't quite understand those who say that the board members haven't responded to anything. Too bad they're not here today, maybe if you heard that, you'd check that the answers were quite understandable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u21	Thank you. Mr Foldyna's point of fact follows. I'm sorry, it's my fault, Mr. Juříček's turn, followed by Mr. Foldyna. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u22	Thank you. Hello again. I'm not gonna fight here if I'm right or wrong. You know, I used to say that at the seminar: words are like dried leaves that wind blows away. But the numbers are very clear. Three whole four billion crowns are seven-year depreciations, three billion are investments. So they don't even make simple reproductions, please. Those are the facts. Those are their numbers, not my numbers. As far as panoptics are concerned, that's what I said, as a general council, she acted as a panoptics. Because they didn't answer a specific number. I asked the skating question. Please: How much did the 200 pages of the chalk paper that the Czech Television is responsible for cost you? First simple question. They didn't know. And that's how it went on and on and on and on. In other words, I always had to answer the question I asked myself, and I said, "Look, this is your number. So let's not mess with the state budget stew and all that. We are talking about Czech TV and its management. And I can tell you one more thing. The way out that was with Mr Dvořák, Mr Dvořák finally asked me if I could take a look at their 2020 budget, and I said, Yes, provided you fully respect me, Mr Dvořák. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u23	Thank you. Mr. Foldyna is next. After him, Mrs. Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I will speak to Mr Bartošek through you. Mr. Bartošek, take care of the Czech TV report, don't discipline here! It is not your message here to discuss who is and is not a Social Democrat! I don't care who you are, who you are, who you are, or who you are, Satanist or neomarxist. Thank you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u25	Mrs Němcová, after that Mr Plzák. Still factual points. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this debate is leading us somewhere else. If we are to talk logically, factually and stick to the ground that we have at our disposal and on which basis we are to decide whether to vote in favour of the approval of the reports on the management and activities of Czech Television in 2016, 2017 and others, then we have the relevant basis from the ČT Council. [[11.50 hours]] If my colleague Juříček here claims that he has had his own independent audit done, please tell me who made this audit for you, let him multiply it for all Members of the Chamber of Deputies, let us make a non-closed seminar, because I do not remember at all the format of the closed seminar that he would have been elected to any report that is being discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. I do not understand why the President of the House chose this format, it seems completely abnormal to me and for that reason I did not participate in the seminar because, as a member of the electoral committee, I prefer that the meeting of the electoral committee is public. Any of the Members can come, any of the Journalist communities, any of the citizens, members of the Czech Television Council can come and answer. The closed seminar was simply dealing with one another's accounts. I mean, by those Members who just don't want to approve reports on Czech television, they're looking for a way to normalize Czech TV, because the Czech Radio already has a little bit of normalized, and that's why they chose this format. I am very sorry that the Chamber of Deputies has taken this path, and I reject that for myself and for the Club of the Civil Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u27	Thank you. Mr Plzák's point of fact, followed by President Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u28	Thank you. The previous speaker said, let's talk about specific things, but this has been a little political agony. I want to talk about specific things, and that's for my colleague Bartošek's performance. If he says something to you through Mr President, and I don't understand it, and I think you'll understand it, it's been verified by ISO 800 if you're listening to me - he's probably not listening, so... can I time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u29	You have two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. It's up to you how you use them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u30	I'm sorry, I'm gonna say it again. It is a verification according to ISO 800, an international auditing standard, special aspects - audits of financial statements compiled in accordance with the framework for specific purposes, and verification according to ISO 3000. If it tells you anything. It doesn't mean anything to me, but it was based on publicly available numbers and the evaluation of the reports. And then to a colleague of the Zaorálek, who probably isn't here, he said about the investments... [[Officer Foldyna off the mic: he's here.]] Sorry, Mr President, you spoke about the investments and forgot to say about the investment in the Karlovy Vary party. Because the director of Czech Television told us that it was an investment for a quarter of a million, where the best champagne was served and then bathed. [[Nesroz.]] If he doesn't listen to me again, I'm sorry, but I wanted to respond to him. Maybe I'll have to tell them one more time. And besides, the report on the assessment is available to the director of Czech Television about him. He had it at his disposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u31	Thank you. President Bartošek, point of fact. Then it will be Mr Dolínek's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u32	Thank you. To clarify, by your means, Mr Foldyn. You know, being a folklore in our ranks doesn't mean whether you're religious or not. It's about values. And to make it even more terminologically clear, because this is where the reserve fund came in. The point is that public media may have 10% of the annual expenditure included in the public service budget and this is the amount necessary to manage cost and income fluctuations. And other than that, the pseudo-audit report. A document we don't have at our disposal. You discussed it sectarianly in the context of the movement, you weren't willing to let anyone else in, and now we're supposed to discuss things that we don't have documentation for. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Next thing. Attacking public media is one of the basic instruments of hybrid war, questioning their role. And whatever you think about it, questioning public media is questioning one of the basic instruments of democracy. What you are currently doing is that you are not having a qualified discussion, you are using dedicated arguments and all you are doing is that you are an instrument of hybrid war, which, for example, is used by Russia to challenge fundamental instruments of democracy. And if, for example, you want to talk about investment spending and so on, did you think, for example, that this could also be the result of competing for lower prices? That there might have been, for example, technology that went down in time? If I go back to the audit, it's a thing that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u33	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, time is up. [[Member Bartošek: - is not relevant in this discussion. Thank you.]] Thank you. In order to make it clear to everyone what the next step is, I will read in the order of the Members and Members to make factual remarks. Mr Dolínek, Mr Válek, Mr Okamura, Mr Volný, Mr Zaorálek, Mr Procházková and Mr Kořanová. This is how we're going to proceed now. So Mr. Dolínek is next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u34	Thank you. I would really like us to go back to discussing the material we have put forward. The report on the activities of Czech Television for 2016 was approved by the last Chamber of Deputies, or by the committee of the previous Chamber of Deputies in the presence of the ANO movement. I understand that you may have made new friends here, Mr President, that you have probably brought YES into the ranks of a new worldview wind, and I will not speak to you, so you can arrange that. But, you know, putting on a political hustle just because you need it is very unethical, in my opinion. And if you have such serious knowledge, you've had it for three years, you should have been on the control committee, the police, anywhere else. If the money is being misplaced, if it's being embezzled, you should have been somewhere else by now and not waiting for today to try to put on a political convoy of Czech television.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u35	Thank you. Mr Válek, a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I had no idea how interesting this would be. I think the TV viewers, the damn Czech TV, must really like it. For me, the ratings are increasing, the Prime Minister is increasing, the quality of the shows is getting higher. Every time I have my doubts, I switch to another, unnamed TV, where everything is moderated by one of the best, nicest and smartest moderator that many here admire, and I find that it could be dramatically worse than I could have imagined, I return to the ČT 1 shows and discover reality. Of course, I like some shows better, some less. I don't understand, I don't understand some of the attacks, I don't understand any of the discussions. I wouldn't mind having any report with me that I would possibly pay to discuss the one involved, i.e. in this case the director of Czech Television. I find it perfectly logical. And if this is lobbyism, then lobbyism is everything. I think that if someone doesn't know what ISO is and works in health care, it's amazing, because all hospitals have gone through this process and I suppose that's the general and notorious thing that if someone is operating with ISO, it's very ridiculous - at least in the case of Czech Television. And the last thing I want to say. Let's go back to the news, talk rationally, and talk about whether we want to have an independent democratic television that informs us, even though some of us may not like what the information on that TV is and what we learn from that TV. That's not what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u37	Thank you. Vice-President of the House of Okamura, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u38	We are discussing Czech Television, which is paid by licence fees of almost all citizens of the Czech Republic. And now I've been watching CT24, and I thought it was live. Because when Okamura, Babiš or Zeman gets dirty, it always goes live and even every hour on the main news on ČT 24 in Czech Television, it's in Events, Events, comments are being discussed by everyone, and I see that there are other messages running and it's not live! What is Czech TV afraid of? Why don't all citizens of the Czech Republic listen when political parties, nine political parties elected, all citizens of the Czech Republic who have come to the elections, discuss pros and cons on annual reports, management, the activities of Czech Television, which are paid by all citizens of the Czech Republic, basically all citizens of the Czech Republic? [[12.00 hours]] And I'm asking Czech TV again, and I know that people are watching it now on Czech TV, what we're saying here. I call on you to start a live broadcast on ČT 24, so that citizens can hear - Pirates are laughing - so that citizens can hear what is said here about the management and activities of Czech television. What are you afraid of on Czech TV? Why are you hiding it? Why, when uncomfortable politicians who have proven nothing are dirty by you, none of them are prosecuted, none of them are convicted, not even charged, so it runs from morning to night? And now that we're talking about real facts for and against, and I'm not saying who has the facts, who is right, there are oppositions, coalitions, different opinions, about you, about Czech television, representatives of all who pay licence fees, so you're afraid, you're hiding it, and it's not running on Czech television. That really seems incredibly hypocritical and appalling to me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u39	Before I say another, current apologies: Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský apologises from 11.40 to 13:00 for reasons of work, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg from 9.00 to 13.00 for health reasons, Minister Klára Dostálová from 14.30 to the end of the day for family reasons, and Mrs Marie Pěnčíková apologizes today from 12.00 to the end of the day of the hearing and tomorrow after the full day of the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Lubomír Volný's point of fact follows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u40	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. In this point, I would just like to correct the information that has been said here, through Mr President to Mrs Němcová. Because according to the information I have at my disposal, the seminar was convened by the CEO of Czech Television for Members and his person - originally. Even according to the information available to me, he did not want to invite the Czech Television Council. You can verify this information and, perhaps, in some way, we can do the way it really was with the President of the House. So this seminar was created as a seminar for Members at the initiative of the Director-General of Czech Television. And then I would like, through Mr President, to my colleague Zaorálek - Mr Minister, I am sorry. It was said here, I don't know if I understood correctly that you were satisfied with the answers to the questions that were raised at a seminar that I didn't think you were at, because I don't remember that you were present at the seminar, but it was said here that you knew that the questions were good, that it was okay, and that if we had the opportunity to meet them, we would have a similar feeling. How do you know those questions were answered correctly at a seminar you didn't attend? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u41	Now with a factual remark, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Otherwise, have a nice noon. And Mrs Procházková will prepare herself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u42	I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that I think that my fellow Member, Mr Juříček, is not an instrument of hybrid war. I quite know him as he moves quickly from east to west and west to east, and I think that no power could employ him and make him its instrument, as I have known him for quite years. I don't like this kind of argument because it feels like it's the kind of argument that we stop talking about everything here. That's one thing. And I'd like to assure everyone that I think it's perfectly okay that public media can't stay without managing control. I was the one who called after the debate. It bothered me that we're not discussing this, that this debate isn't happening here, so now I think what we're doing, thank God we're finally doing it. And I can't be angry when someone says something I don't agree with. I think that's part of it. So I repeat, I believe that Mr Juříček is not an instrument of hybrid war. It's my firm conviction. And we're having a debate here where we don't have to agree with each other, but it would be good if we didn't put in all the geopolitical contexts of the world. So that's one thing. And then I'd say what I don't agree with him about. I really don't think that the argument that those people in question didn't know how much the message was worth is a really crucial moment. You know why? Mr. Volný says I wasn't there. I said I read a record that was taken quite detailedly, and I asked about two participants, and they just answered it. They said it was done in the house, that it was assigned to the graphics department - that it printed, broke and so on. I understand that with the possibilities they had, it's a pretty understandable answer. To Mr Volný. I said, as I read these records, and I was getting to know where I couldn't personally be, so I understood the answers. So I'm defending them here for those who aren't here. With Mr. Juříček, I'm sorry, I disagree, but I repeat, I don't see a geopolitical struggle in this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u43	Another one with a factual remark by Mrs Procházková. Mrs Kořanová withdrew, so then Mr Juříček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u44	Good for noon, everyone. I would like to free myself from various political clumps, hybrid wars and so on. We should get back to rational. It's a big problem for me to raise my hand for the 2016 report. I just don't get it! I wasn't here in 2016, I didn't get to Parliament until the end of 2017, for not being included in the 2016 meeting, and now I'm supposed to comment on something I didn't even have a chance to do. So it seems very strange to me. Of course, there's a mistake. I think the vote on these reports is all weird. We should think about it. I will definitely stay for 2016, 2017 I will eventually pick up because, of course, I was already here in 2018 and this year we can also blame myself for not getting the information. But let's even think about how we're going to do it in the future, if that's right. Even that Czech TV has a bit of a problem with it so we can vote it back two or three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u45	Now, with a factual remark, Mr Juříček. So I will read the order of factual remarks so that Members will have the opportunity to prepare themselves, so that they do not escape the application. So, Mrs Pekarová, Mr Válek, Mrs Němcová and Mrs Langšádlová follow. So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I do not doubt that some revenues have increased from 400 million to 708 over the last three years. I didn't say I'd be here every detail of one item after another. I have one downside. One day, when he goes through my head, I remember him. And, of course, my colleague Bára Kořanová, through the President, is right in this regard. But I was trying to make an overview. And there's no way I wanted to make it a policy. Please, again, I'm just saying that the costs are rising faster than income, and that the 135 crowns that are the licence fee are evident pressure over the last three years in the individual annual reports, or overall reports, that it is basically explicitly written everywhere that they need to raise licence fees. And I'm just saying, and that was my last sentence at the end of the seminar, that I said that I didn't think the Chamber of Deputies would be willing to raise the licence fees without them starting to work on the line management without impacting on any of the programme directions of Czech Television. I don't criticize them at all, I'm completely neutral in this regard. I've commissioned this audit for myself to verify that my opinion is correct. Therefore, hit me, and not some audit organisation that is international and I will not have to drag it in the media just because it has prepared an audit for Juříček as a Member. That's what I've been trying to reproduce for you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u47	Thank you, and also for keeping time. Now, Mrs Pekarová, followed by Mr Válek, Němcová, Langšádlová, Faltýnek. Please, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u48	Thank you for the floor. I am glad to speak only after the technical remark of my previous speaker, Mr Juříček, because I expected that he would just say, for the numerous questions that have been raised here, what kind of audit report is specific, or who he has given it to, if he can therefore provide it and provide it to us and so on. And we learn that it is not, that it is not interested. And then it seems extremely unfair to me, because it's just creating some kind of cover-up maneuver against what we're actually discussing here. And it is really very, through the President, a tactic that is supposed to cover up the fact that we basically have some facts that we have given, and you are questioning them on the basis of something that you do not want to tell us. [[12.10 hours]] So now everyone here can shield themselves with anything, any message, and interpret it, but in fact it won't have it anywhere, and in reality it'll just be this kind of cover-up. So I think it is extremely inappropriate to use this way at all in this debate, because we will then never get any concrete result and we will just be here to drag on who has a better message, which he has built up, even if he does not want to say transparently what is in it therefore, virtually. I'm the one who worked it out. That's a pretty big deal, that's a pretty big deal. And then I will take the liberty of commenting here, which was from the President today. Through your own, Mr Okamura, if the Czech Television were broadcasting it live now, and, fortunately, you are not yet its programme director, then you would certainly find exactly why it is dedicated to itself again, and you would comment on it this way. I'm sure you don't like Czech TV.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u49	Time and... [[Fun in the hall.]] But as chairman, I'll refrain from commenting on the facts, but this isn't worth the response, so... [[Fun.]] Mr Válek, I will ask you to speak, and Mrs Němcová, Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Faltýnek and Mr Juříček, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u50	Thank you. Thank you very much. I thought licence fees paid the household and not all of us, and that if they didn't get a TV, they wouldn't pay anything. That means that every citizen pays licence fees, I don't think it's entirely true. Of course, if there is one who has, like, twenty-thirty households, like now closed by former health minister Rath, who had two households, then of course, more licence fees are paid. We who have one, we do pro-population policies, we have four children and one wife, we pay one for six citizens, so it doesn't bother us. Well, that's one thing. The other thing, and I have to say it, I'm not gonna raise my hand because I'm pressing that button and I'm not in time to raise my hand, so I wouldn't worry about it, and I'm fine with the button, there's three options, it's not that bad. I'm sorry. And if I wanted to sort of get into this discussion, I'd pick up these papers here, I'd say I also have an audit report I had processed, I'd even show it to you, and I wouldn't give it to you. [[shows printed sheets of paper]] And it was made by a renowned foreign company. It wouldn't be true. But I won't do it, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u51	With another factual remark by Mrs Miroslava Němcová and Mrs Helena Langšádlová, Mr Faltýnek and Mr Juříček, will be prepared. Please, madam, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u52	Thank you. In my point of fact, I want to respond to the words of my colleague Procházková and give her some truth. It really is not normal for us to discuss the report on the management or activities of Czech Television in 2016 in September or October, because I think we started in March to say exactly, 2019. But it's not the Czech TV's fault. The Competent Committee discussed it, the House could have discussed it long ago, if it had been wanted, that's for the margo government coalition, these reports had been discussed. From among the opposition, the proposals for this discussion to the agenda fell regularly and were always rejected, or it was arranged to define the exact time from eleven to one, when it was known that they would not be negotiated, and there was only room for any performances by the unnamed lords of the colleagues, and this was blocked. So explain this to you at the parliamentary club, which procedure you want to choose when discussing reports not only Czech Television but also all others, so that these delays do not occur. Otherwise, each Member must discuss what - or all Members receive material that we are obliged to discuss, and it does not matter whether we were Members or were not Members at that time. If it is our task now, I cannot say: I was not a Member at the time and this material does not concern me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u53	I will now ask for a performance by Mrs Helena Langšádlová and prepare the chairman of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u54	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll come back to the hearing shortly. It is our duty as Members to discuss this. And regardless of whether we've ever been here, it's our duty, and if anyone says they won't discuss it or vote for it, I think they're against the responsibilities. Since it is logical that the 2016 report could not be discussed before 2017. In short, the 2016 report must be in 2017. But the fact that we've been here this long is, of course, very irresponsible. But I'm sorry, it's the irresponsibleness of the majority here, not us. We have tried several times to include this report on the agenda. I would like to make a brief mention of the audit. Please don't talk about any audit unless you publish who he is and don't copy anything about it. Because Ernst & Young is simply a reputable audit firm, and if it doesn't say what kind of audit is the alternative, please don't even talk about it because it's completely unnecessary and it's completely nonsense. In short, the Czech Television was audited by a renowned company with international reputation, and if you don't say who did another audit and what exactly is its content, it doesn't make sense for this to be mentioned as part of the discussion. The concession fees have not increased since 2008. It's been 11 years. If we want quality, it doesn't require Czech television, it just mentions it, so look, you who understand the economy, how inflation has increased, what has happened since then. Otherwise, when we were in government, we also did not like certain things, and believe me, we also felt that we did not like criticism from Czech television, but that is the role of public media that we need and must protect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u55	I will now request the speech of the chair of the ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek parliamentary club and prepare myself, as the final application for the factual, Mr Pavel Juříček. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u56	Good morning, colleagues. So I've been waiting for my performance with priority rights. I guess it would have come to me, but very briefly, and then I guess I'm gonna turn myself in again. A reputable auditor. OKD also had an international renowned auditor. But that is a remark that does not concern this debate. I am glad that we are still holding a relatively factual debate on the topic of Czech TV's economics. I'd like to clarify exactly what happened with the so-called. a closed seminar, 'cause I guess we don't all have detailed information. I would read you a letter from Czech Television CEO Petr Dvořák from August 7, 2019, when he asked the President of the House for the following: "Mr President, I am addressing you in the context of the discussion of the annual reports on Czech Television, which will be on the agenda of some of the next meetings of the Chamber of Deputies. In a transparent discussion on these documents, Czech Television is ready to answer all questions from the public, including its representatives in the Chamber of Deputies. Mr President, following the above, I would like to ask you for the opportunity to mediate a suitable space in the Chamber of Deputies, where there will be an opportunity for interested Members and Members to answer any questions concerning the management and activities of Czech Television. I will be available to them personally together with the CFO, the production director and other authorised representatives of Czech Television." I'm sorry. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time!]] [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time!]] Thank you. I'll wait for my performance with priority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u57	Mr President, you may have a quick chance, because we only have Mr Juříček with the facts, and then you are, so if you do, then you have unlimited time. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u58	Thank you again. Please, I'd just like to repeat that the audit I commissioned, so I just put it in for myself just to confirm the reasoning, virtually. not reasoning, but facts, because a number is a number, and if anyone can read a number and know the balance sheet and the profit and loss account without having my brain affected by all the other 190 pages and read it, they can immediately see what the content is. And if the content doesn't suit you, of course it's tactical, and that's how those in quotation marks always use tactics that say we question the author when the content doesn't suit us. So please, I'm the author. You can only question me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u59	There. Now another factual one, so Mr. Jiří Kobza. And then Mr... And one more jumped in, Vice-President Pikal. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u60	Thank you, Mr President. By your means, I would like to respond to a colleague of Válek, who mentioned here an alternative television and one of the most beautiful and successful, and I've already forgotten the other superlative, the moderator. I just wanted to remind you that this TV does not have seven billion of the licence fees available. And he, according to his colleague, the War's superlative moderator, is moderating it for his own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u61	Another factual point, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. And one more jumped in, Mr. Válek MP. So please, Vice-President, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u62	I would just like to address Mr Juříček's previous speaker through you. We will be happy to comment on the content and not on the person, but we would have to have the content here, which is why there is a call for publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u63	There. I will now request a factual remark from Mr Vlastimil Válek - so far the last factual one. So the chairman of the ANO club, Jaroslav Faltýnek, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u64	I'm really glad that the initial playwright is a little limp. I don't know if we were talking about the same thing because maybe we were talking about someone else. If we're talking about the same thing, I know, and I really appreciate it. On the other hand, it looks that way too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u65	I will now ask for a speech with the priority right of the President of the ANO member club Jaroslav Faltýnek and prepare, now has a written right of priority, representative of the Pirates club Mr Martínek. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just read the last sentence from the letter from Mr. CEO Dvořák: In case of your consent, my colleagues are prepared to cooperate to arrange a specific location and deadline. At the same time, I would like to inform Members and Members in advance of the possibility of meeting with representatives of Czech Television on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you in advance for considering this request and wish you a peaceful life of summer. Respectfully, Petr Dvořák, CEO. And nothing happened except that the President of the House complied with the wishes of the Director-General, even though the Czech Television Council is a partner for the Chamber of Deputies by law responsible for controlling the management of Czech television. That's just the way it is in the law. And then the President of the House invited the council members to this meeting, a seminar, whatever we call it. It was called an invitation to a parliamentary debate under the auspices of the President of the House on the topic of economic and activity of Czech Television. It's a shame there weren't more coworkers and colleagues, but it was a voluntary thing. Some of us have listened to the request, or the request of the Director General, and we have taken part in the debate. For me, the debate was quite informative. I didn't perform there, I just listened, virtually. I said a few words for our club at the opening. And the words were the same as at our club on Tuesday morning, when I appealed to my colleagues and colleagues to approve reports on the management and activities of Czech Television in 2016 and 2017. And the reason is very simple. Those years are gone. The money's accounted for. The money is spent. And in my opinion, there's no point in discussing this for an extremely long time. I would rather recommend - and maybe we will come up as our club with some motion for a resolution - to look into the future. And one of those things I think is that we ask, ask, commit to the Czech Television Council to discuss more in detail the reports on the Czech Television's management, not just twenty minutes or twenty or twenty-five minutes. This will be discussed by my colleague Feranec, who is enrolled in a proper debate, which has these specific figures at his disposal. So for me - it might also be good for us to appeal to the electoral committee, which is also actually responsible and discussing detailed reports on the management and activities of Czech Television in order to perhaps hold a seminar on the topic of the economy, on the topic of the profit and loss account and balance sheet, for the members of the Czech Television Council, because, as Professor Válek rightly said here, and I agree with him, not all of us are experts in the economy. And when I followed those answers from the members of the Czech Television Council, when they were actually referring from their answers to the Director-General, nothing against it, but perhaps it would be worth discussing these matters professionally, which relate to the actual accounts that the Czech Television Council is actually discussing and recommending to the Chamber of Deputies for approval. So it's more like my appeal to the chairman of the Standa Berkovec Election Committee, so that, in the future, perhaps, some of these expert sessions economically focused on members of the Czech Television Council and other interested parties may, of course, be organized by the Chamber of Deputies. So, for me, appeal again. I cannot appeal to all of you, I appeal only to our members for the YES movement, to approve these reports and to focus more on the future and to find a mechanism to simply deal with these matters in more detail and perhaps more responsible, and we would then defend ourselves to these debates, when some of our colleagues, namely Pavel Juříček, had his own opinion audited for his own money. And you can trust me and you don't have to ask other colleagues, Pavel Juříček has not officially introduced our club to this audit. So I can trust him, I don't have to. I didn't read it. And I was rather looking forward to the debate with the Czech Television Council. But unfortunately I didn't learn much from the individual councillors there, perhaps with one exception of the gentleman who is responsible, or actually in charge of the economy, who actually spoke there all the time, and then, of course, the CEO, who is 100% in the picture, answered. So so very briefly my few comments on this matter. And I would really appeal, so let's look into the future, and we're not going to affect what's already been, so let's just approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u67	There. Now I have two priority rights here. So Mr. Martínek will give his opinion for the Pirate Club. And will be prepared with priority rights by the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to surround the discussion with a long senseless speech containing misleading information as others, so I would just give a brief statement to the Pirates Club. Pirates refuse to take advantage of the discussion of the annual ČT reports with the intention of controlling the media for the personal interests of individuals at the expense of the general public. We will vote in favour of the approval of the annual reports of Czech Television. I also call on other speakers to focus on matters and reduce personal invectives, because they are extending the negotiations of the Chamber of Deputies and there is a risk that the ČT reports will not be discussed again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u69	Now, with priority rights, the President of the SPD, Radim Fiala, will be prepared by Mr Jiří Valenta. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u70	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I am happy to remove myself from the personal invektiv and from the politicalization of the Czech TV news and allow me to present my opinion for the SPD club. However, I will return very briefly to the past and to the management. We also discussed this in detail and watched it. And it is clear that the management is, in terms of business deficit, that a television fee fund is used to balance the budget. That's obvious. That if it goes at the same rate in the next few years, the TV fee fund will last two more years. [[12.30 hours]] That means if you want - and I'm here to appeal to Mr. Faltýnek and the pirát who say, let's not politicize - I'm in, too, let's not politicize. But if we want to look into the future, what will happen in two years? What will Czech Television cover the deficit? There are only two options. It either sells land, a piece of the building, or raises licence fees to all who pay them in the Czech Republic, to all who pay them honestly in the Czech Republic. So we at the SPD club say no, we have to raise your finger and say it's not okay. We will not vote in favour of the Czech Television reports because they are simply not okay. Management is not okay and Czech TV is not okay. On the contrary, I appeal both to the pirát and to the club of the ANO movement and to Mr Faltýnek himself, who says: let us look at the future. So I'm telling you, I'm gonna be standing here in those two years, in those three years, when you propose to raise the concession fee, I'm gonna point to you and say, if we were gonna stop it, you said, we're gonna wait, we're gonna look into the future. So for us, for the SPD, we say no, we don't support the news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u71	Mr Bartošek, President of the KDU-ČSL club, now with a factual remark, a single application for a factual application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u72	Thank you. Just a substantive response, Mr President, through Mr President. As far as I know, the audit reports do not say that Czech television is not okay. This means, according to the audit reports, Czech Television is fine. I was talking about melting those reserves. This is indeed the case that there has been an agreement with the Ministry of Culture that these reserves will be reduced to 10 per cent to ensure fluctuations in revenue and expenditure. This means that the reduction is in agreement with the Ministry of Culture, it is not an arbitrary act of Czech television. And another thing. Well, licence fees haven't increased since 2008. When we include inflation, wage developments and everything else, it is legitimate to ask whether the value of the 2008 fees corresponds to its amount or the value of the 135 crowns has decreased. I believe we're talking about some 110, 115, 112 crowns today, or 114. That is, if we want public television - and we disagree on this, you want to cancel the licence fees, I say that the independence of Czech television or public media is given by these fees and by law and their impartiality is required. That means yes, we have a different view. And I say that Czech television needs these fees to be free and independent to be relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u73	Now, with a factual remark from the President of the SPD Radim Fiala and Mrs Ivana Nevludová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u74	Just a brief response to my previous speaker. I also appreciate that your performance was, let's just say, non-political, that it was pointless. I just want to say that, in our opinion, the Supreme Audit Office should control Czech Television. The fact that there are no licence fees, the fact that it is part of the state budget, does not guarantee that or does not say that it is not independent. Because in many Western countries of Europe, it works that way, that television, national television, is part of the state budget. And then what about the courts we're paying, the prosecutor's office? So we're saying they're addicted? After all, these are state institutions that are independent. So we don't feel that if it works in Western Europe, it would be different for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u75	Now I'm going to read one apology. Apologies to the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec from today's meeting within 13 hours for work reasons. So the actual notes are now going to be four. So, Mrs Ivana Nevludová, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek, then President of the KDU-ČSL club Bartošek and then Mrs Němcová. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must express myself by your means to Mr Bartošek. I'm gonna read you a sentence that sounded like one of the last ones at that seminar that was held at 8. 10th, from Mr. Dvořák's mouth. "We are not in a situation where we do not know that Czech Television's financial resources are somehow disappearing and that we need to find a solution that will be after 2021." I also devoted a lot of my time to those reports, listened to the records from the Czech Television meeting board until that year 2016 behind, I read the minutes from the meeting. It says in the notes that Czech TV has resources so far. See ya. And then we read the annual report of Czech Television, where we learn that this public organization is financially sound. So it contradicts each other. And let's listen to each other and read, study, and make our own views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u77	Now, on the point of fact, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek will prepare the chairman of the club KDU-ČSL Bartošek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to respond to Mr. Fiala's honourable colleague's statement. He said a sentence like that that abused fund of public fees. You said he was abused. [[Councilman Radim Fiala is resisting.]] Used, yes. You know, it seems to me... I'll tell you how I feel about this, I'm quite cold-blooded for the TV. Look, as much as we can talk about some things, today a person, the taxpayer, has one of the largest public services in Europe for 4.50 a day, there are six channels. It's got a children's channel, sports. You've got it all privatized a lot these days. He has at his disposal the six channels where I think a whole bunch of things in that sport - they bought the Olympics, the World Cup. That means this is really a service that works here publicly. So let's distinguish the overall service, which is really extremely extensive today, one of the largest in Europe. And so let's say, the debate that's hanging in the air here, it's more about the news and, like, publicity. So let's sort it out. One thing is the public service that's remarkable, and that's for 4.50 a day in a range that's unprecedented in Europe because I'm watching a little bit. And I think that's basic. And I'm gonna keep to myself, you know, those feelings I have. I get angry sometimes, too, you can imagine. When I was in North Korea and then they were suffocating me, I was angry, too, you know. So let's make this different, and let's say from the point of view of what it provides, it's just a rarity. I know what it looks like in Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and so on. So that's all I wanted to point out about your wording. I'm trying to be really precise, without anger and fury, trying to see the whole thing so we don't kick the baby in with the bathtub or whatever they say. That would be totally wrong, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u79	Now, with a factual remark, President Bartošek and Mrs Miroslava Němcová will prepare herself. So far, the last two applications. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u80	Thanks. A brief response through the President to you, Mr Fialo. It's a simple matter why I hold licence fees. Because the budget is a political issue. And the fact that sometimes there are ideas that we're going to starve the Senate and take their budget, and that the Senate is going to die and so on, in the same way, we can push Czech TV to be humble or public media. That is why I personally take the view that licence fees are the right solution. I understand that we disagree, but I say that concession fees are the right solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u81	I will now ask for the presentation of Mrs Miroslava Němcová, so far the final factual comment. So Mr. Jiří Valenta will be prepared if there is no more factual. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u82	Thank you for the floor. I would like to remind the rapporteur, Mrs Kořanová, of the introductory words of the rapporteur, who discussed the report on the management of the various aspects, as it is drawn up, and basically her report came out positively in terms of the management of Czech television. She is the rapporteur on this matter. So her word should also be taken into account. As regards the factual remark to Mr Fial, who called for the Czech Television to be more under control. Okay, let's talk about whether the SAO should be the one who will also control Czech TV. But I would just like to remind the rapporteur once again that 12 audits, plus three extraordinary, took place on Czech Television in 2016. You don't think that's enough? That's a one-and-a-half-month audit. If these audits need some amount of material, some amount of people who employ everything, and how much time and money is left for Czech Television to do what it has to do? We can control her to death, I'm sure we can. I don't think that's why citizens pay for it, which is why I would rather talk about whether the audits we have at our disposal and we have them at our disposal on the management report, whether they are consistent in the sense that the rapporteur has presented it to us or not. I agree with the rapporteur in this regard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u83	Now two more factual ones, so Mr Vlastimil Válek and Mrs Kořanová will be prepared. Well, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u84	I just left the room for a little while to sort of rip off the dry rock, and I had the feeling that we were talking about Czech health services instead of Czech TV, through Mr. Speaker, from the performance of my previous speakers, because for little money, state insured people pay almost nothing, 54 crowns a day, we have top-notch care, top quality of programmes, the whole economy is rushing into the abyss, the internal debt of the faculty hospital is catastrophic. And the only difference in the Czech Television's accounts is not as devastating a future as the Ministry of Health's accounts. I hope that when we discuss the vision of the Ministry of Health and the economic analysis of this year and the plan for next year, that we will be equally thorough, detailed and that we will look at how it is possible that those hospitals that run the Ministry have a much larger debt than they had a year ago, two, three ago, and that we will look at it equally carefully. Because this is about television, but this is about the health of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u85	Now the last de facto and with her Member Barbora Kořanová. Please, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u86	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to follow up on my previous speaker, Mrs. Němcová, through you. I also wanted to mention the number of audits, which includes the annual report for 2016, and I would like to add that the audit company that carries out the audit is an international company that controls, for example, ČEZ or BRANO, Juříček. And the other thing is that my colleague Juříček mentioned here that the director had at his disposal his audit, which, by the way, no one saw, or, I don't know, a few people from the club YES, for example, the electoral committee did not see him at all, perhaps the President, but no one else, and I would like to say that I have information that Czech Television requested and did not receive the audit in writing from Mr Juříček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u87	I am therefore calling now because I have no factual or preferential rights, so I will ask for Mr Jiří Valenta's speech. And Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Before I begin my speech, I would technically complain about the management of the meeting through Vice-President Fiala, who, instead of allowing the appearance of the first electronically logged-in MEP to whom I was, without any prior rights at that time, did not even wait until he jumped on the electronic board of speakers, gave the floor rashly to a colleague, Juříček, and thus illegally delayed my speech by a few hours. Another reaction - to a colleague of Mrs Procházková, who criticized as well as we are criticizing in the KSČM parliamentary club, a very delayed discussion of reports on the activities and management of Czech Television. But he won't let me react to these sighs of hers in the same way as a fellow Member, Mrs Němcová. Yes, Mrs. Procházková, you have a coalition majority in the House for the last two years, we support you in some matters. It was enough to turn to this majority, to place it firmly at the right moment - and I underline this, at the right moment - and these reports could have been discussed two years ago. In theory, it would also be possible to hold an extraordinary meeting. But that again depends on some will. But I just didn't feel that will from the ANO movement. Otherwise, I would like to say, before I begin, that I am registering here a considerable effort to delay this discussion, especially from TOP 09. For example, my colleague Kalousek took half an hour before the end of the meeting time, the meeting time, the time for the TOP 09 meeting. Today I again see numerous technical comments, comments by TOP 09 members. In doing so, they together with the ODS declare that they are more or less in favour of approving all the reports of Czech Television as submitted. But now let me perform with my proper performance. And since I will make a more detailed and detailed comment on the 2017 report on the Czech Television's economics, which is the following two points, let me now refer to the discussion of this report, which is still related to 2016 just a few general remarks and observations. In the very introduction, I would like to respond from this place to a dedicated rumor that has recently spread through public space, namely that leftist politicians, or even the president of the Republic himself, want to steal Czech television from citizens, i.e. the entire general public, and thus destroy the bastion of freedom on Czech television, as Mr. Dostál, for example, has very comically shouted into the media ether of the Czech Television Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that no one, at least no one from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, wants to rip Czech television out of the public property portfolio, even in the future. But they may want to dominate Czech television, or even more precisely, to preserve it for their benefit by completely different subjects. I am referring to those whom Czech Television has been so able to pin over the years, whether in the form of a clear political bias and tendency, or also and often financially within the framework of opaque, often very suspicious contracts in the order of millions of crowns. Filutů, who designed the idea of attempting to dominate Czech television politics, released, with the obvious intention of causing concern and dissatisfaction to the public, they know very well that our state is responsible for Czech television and must also control the Czech Television through the House, which elects the Council of Czech Television. Thus, in the case of direct and objective criticism from among Members, this is not about the power takeover of Czech television, which I would like to emphasise again. The House annually checks both the activity report and the management report of Czech Television by law. And please nicely, this control activity certainly does not mean once a year that these submitted reports, as we sit here, we all wave back, for no reason. Although for years and for various, especially right-wing governments, this has been the case, for the benefit of all. I remember myself, and for just six years in the House, as lobbyists were running around, this has also been said here, and I have worked hard. If I had to give a specific example, so that it would not be mere suspicion, for example in 2014, the CEO of Dvořák hired experienced lobbyists from PAN Solutions who had him, at least according to available reports from lidovka.cz , to ensure the positive position of the House in the vote. And so it happened, among other things, that some Members went to dinner with the Director-General, specifically I know which Members they were, but I am not going to present them now. Personally, I am not surprised that Mr Dvořák was worried about his chair because, for example, a member of the Czech Television Council, Mr Radek Mezuláník, at the meeting of the electoral committee, said that the figures in the final report did not correspond at all to the facts. And many Members, perhaps historically for the first time, have hesitated to agree with the report. But the fact that the House could actually start with some more detailed control, with some, and I don't blame them at all, just doesn't fit in their store. The transmission of this media could really hurt some. So, together with the former director of Czech Television Ivo Mathé, I ask the various, often only self-appointed fighters in their perception of representative democracy as a usurpatorial political world in the Czech Republic: How could the public do this kind of control on their own, isn't that what they're choosing their own representatives for? And that is the principle of parliamentary democracy in our country. How, if not at least through their electoral representatives, through the objectiveization of the annual reports, possibly in the course of time, perhaps even by the inspections of the Supreme Audit Office, which must be quickly launched into the Czech Television's economy. But even that is what our TV wannabe Democrats have long resisted despite their related policies. Furthermore, I must stress once again, if anyone wants to privatise Czech television or change its public form, then the Communists certainly cannot seek support from us either. Otherwise, I will add another published opinion to Mr Mathé's former director, and that is the fact that he can bring more clarity into this discussion. It was then said from him that with a memorable television revolution, which was an attempt by a group not only to politically seize television, but above all to keep to the sources of money, the sense, structure and, above all, some unwritten moral credit of the public service media unfortunately fell apart. A sad statement from a man of knowledge. And I add subjectively: Let us try to return the Czech Television to its real mission, one that was once defined by law, then by the law of the Czech National Council, I think it was from 1991. [[12.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary scrutiny on Czech television and for this reason is now more than necessary. Management with seven billion crowns obtained primarily by direct selection from citizens cannot continue to take place opaquely and also uneconomically, or at least within the limits of this suspicion, despite the significant resistance of a significant part of the concessionaries, to move. It is also not possible from some activist groups on Czech TV composed of persons without a electoral mandate to impose philosophy such as "give us money and don't talk to us anymore, but you should think about increasing the licence fees." Typically a deterrent example is the initiative of the Defence of the Media of the public services of Mr Smoljak, Mr Vadas, Mr Klvan and others who have repeatedly initiated legislative proposals to ensure that the councils that supervise public media are not elected in the House from the nominees of the entire broad civil society as before, but to be delegated only from selected organisations. Understand the ones that suit, the only right ones. It should be in their opinion, for example. FITES, ARAS, Journalist Syndicate and others. I ask, what concrete evidence of a complete conflict of interest would we still need to hear from them? Does he really defend the interests of our entire public? Maybe so, but only the part centered around them. But let us keep asking in this regard. Should Czech dealers really pay even more money for watching Czech Television than they have so far? You think they are now, for example. our citizens are satisfied with the quality of the news and publicity, and would they like to pay extra for the public service provided? Well, they certainly aren't, and they don't want to. And please, let's leave the official statistics of the hired opinion companies aside now. Yes, the CT is useful, but when it was e.g. a similar analysis was carried out by the University of Karlovy Vary's scientific workplace, which clearly demonstrated the sensitivity of Czech television in broadcasting and the unauthorized preference of some political subjects, and was thrown into the trash as irrelevant. Ladies and gentlemen, Czech television is anxiously lacking objectivity, balance, plurality of views or judgment of moderators. But sometimes even simple interpersonal decency, when pre-selected political victims are investigated by TV moderators as police, and until they say what the investigator wants, that is, the particular investigative editor, to hear, they just don't go home. On the news or publicist day, however, there are more or less hidden insults to the opponent on Czech TV, i.e. those who have been selected by television workers as bad ones and bad ones. One example recently is the situation where the District Court for Prague 4 ordered Czech Television to apologize to attorneys Lenka and Karel Hnilicův. The membership of these spouses in the Bar was compared to the membership of the Nazi Mengele in the Czech Medical Chamber by an investigative journalist of Czech Television. He gave a similar example in the media, for example. Even the chairman of the club ANO Faltýnek, who added to the Czech Television that public media was under pressure from the prosecutor Šaroch when his reporters chased him with a camera in the past days. Overall, once again, according to the President of the ANO MP, it can be said that until the leak of information about the possible stopping of the Chapi Nest case, Šaroch was the nation's sweetheart. The exact opposite has come after the leak. In this connection, Mr Faltýnek mentioned the work of Czech Television. Unfortunately, half-truth, subliminal influence and manipulation to the only possible - today is popularly but quite aptly called mainstream - truth is also used for media massage of public attitudes. This is probably the most popular psychological instrument in Czech television recently, the extraction of individualities from the situational or historical context. An equal between the culprits of the world's war conflict with tens of millions of innocent victims and the righteous postwar displacement of people professing the phenomenon of total, i.e. genocidal war based on the decision of winning powers, is perhaps the best example of historical manipulative and from another point of view, I would say, the selling approach of some of our public media employees. But they're actually just leaning on the opinions of some historians and commentators, so "they're actually not responsible for anything." But the Czech citizen and the concessionaire see all this, register and remember, unfortunately for them. But even for other methods, not only by the salami form of misrepresentation of reality and history, many of the key moderators are really garbians. According to the CEO of Czech Television, the Czech public has not yet grown up on their carefully secret fees. Let me give you an example again. On the main show Events and comments were broadcast the entrance of the editor Jiří Hynek, who three times named Andrej Babiš as former Prime Minister. This whole blaze was passed by the host of Světlana Witowská without blinking an eye. This passage was then quickly unavailable on the ČT website. Another reason for not questioning the intensive House of Control on the Czech Television's economy is undoubtedly also the fact that the European Union requires Member States to control their audiovisual market fully. She certainly did not mean under the control of people who are members of some sort of professional or lobbyist organization. He wants us to be responsible for what we are sending, even if we have already allocated a license to someone, and that responsibility must be borne by elected representatives of the people, if we want to continue the constitutional system of parliamentary democracy in the Czech Republic. Specifically, it is treated in the Czech Republic that the House elects the Czech Television Council, where significant regional, social, political and cultural currents should be represented. This authority has certain powers, although in my opinion these powers are quite insufficient. And unfortunately, I must add that even the few real competences that the Czech Television Council has do not use either. This fact really needs to be considered in the future. Without an independent but effective control body, which will actually directly control and deal with often justified citizens' complaints, long-term cloudy TV waters will simply not be cleaned. In this context, therefore, I repeat again, let us also involve the Supreme Audit Office in this process. At the same time, I warn here of those who imagine that they will receive keys from Czech Television and a blank check in their hand, and then they will be able to do what they want. I repeat this also because it is very likely that there is a conflict similar to that of the TV crisis mentioned in 2000 when a state which, according to many, is still in operation today, and Czech television is controlled by people who work in it and no one has anything to say to them. And they would like to support this position and the positions taken by the relevant legislative change. And that's where all the concessionaires should focus, it's all our property. Petr Žantovský, a member of the Czech Press Office Council, also takes a similar view for your information. I would now move on to the very way of demonstrating the quality of Czech television. In my opinion, the annual reports on the management of Czech Television between 2012 and 2018 are designed for an effect rather than for an indication value. From the perspective of legislation, for example. Czech TV's management, it has also fallen here today, to classify it as balanced. From the perspective of the real economy and business point of view, there is a coverage of costs from the saved resources of the past period, I will not say that there is a fund or there is no fund, simply from the saved resources of the past period. Here you can register a marked drop of these resources, i.e. a process that can be simply called eating itself. There is also a decline in the long-term property of Czech Television. The situation, when the costs of Czech television are held just below CZK 7 billion, also reflects an unacceptable situation where a non-profit entity is completely independent of economic reality. [[13.00 hours]] In conclusion, I would like to ask two basic questions. The first may sound like this: Is the user today able to assess the real economic situation of Czech Television solely on the basis of the reports of the Czech Television Council? My answer is that when it comes to drawing information from the documents, they are processed in a clear manner and are supplemented by a number of graphs and photographs. However, if I look at them from the perspective of the user of the financial statements, I must say that there is a need for considerable and legal knowledge as well as experience in the management of broadcasters in order to obtain from them the relevant economic data necessary for our parliamentary decision-making at all. And it wasn't easy for me, even though I'm an economic engineer specializing in public administration. The second question is similar. Is the user able to adequately assess the quality of management of Czech TV based solely on annual management reports? And my answer: the available information in the annual reports on the management of Czech Television does not provide sufficiently well-founded information on the basis of which the user could sufficiently assess the quality of the management of Czech Television.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u89	Ambassador, it's 13 o'clock. You said - in conclusion. If it's a minute, I'll leave you to it, but if it's any longer, I'll... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Well, I would declare... [[Member Valenta: Just two more minutes.]] If it's two minutes, I guess I'll... I'll look in the O.R., see that not everyone agrees. So I'd cut you off. I'd just like to remind you that I'll see you here at 2:30 p.m. at the oral patronage. And what is important is that we continue to discuss this point after oral interventions. I'll read some more apologies. Mr Julius Špičák and Mr Vojtěch Munzar apologizes from 18:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work between 12:50 and 13:00. I am interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Enjoy your meal and at 2:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-10-17-ps2017-035-03-002-902.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I welcome you to the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies this afternoon. Before we continue, I will inform you that Mr. Výborný will vote with replacement card number 21. And Mr Munzar excused his presence from this part of the hearing from 18 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Špičák between 12.50 and 13 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Jan Bauer from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of employment, Mr Mihola from 14.30 to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Marek Benda from 16 o'clock to the end of the day and Mrs Válková between 14.30 and 18.00 for reasons of work. Furthermore, Mrs Matušovská from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Those are some note cards. And now I'm opening a point.
