ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-001-217.u1	217. Motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on Holocaust Memorial Day and prevention of crimes against humanity / House Document 2076/ I ask that the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Radek Vondráček, take the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-001-217.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, honourable guests, I will not be long in my speech. In connection with the commemoration of January 27 as the anniversary of the liberation of the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau, a resolution is tabled on Holocaust Monument Day and the prevention of crimes against humanity defining the working definition of anti-Semitism. The proposal for a definition was drawn up by the International Alliance for the Holocaust, bringing together European countries, including the Czech Republic, North America, Argentina and Israel. The proposal was unanimously adopted at the plenary session of this intergovernmental organisation in May 2016. Although the Czech Republic has so far been protected by the worst manifestations of racist extremism, the rise of anti-Semitic speeches is evident in Europe. This definition is important not only in relation to our traditions and deep relations with the State of Israel, but also to good coexistence with our Žid and other ethnic and national groups. It can thus serve as a guide to assessing hate speech. In the meantime, a number of legislative assemblies adopted resolutions between 2016 and 2018 in which they identify with the declaration and recommend the authorities to follow the definition in their work. It was the British Parliament, Israel's Knesset, the parliaments of Austria, Romania, Germany, Bulgaria, Moldova, Slovakia, Lithuania, Macedonia and the Netherlands. I will now read the resolution: "We, Members and Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, accept this legally non-binding working definition of anti-Semitism in connection with the commemoration of Holocaust victims and the prevention of crimes against humanity. Anti-Semitism is a kind of perception of Žid that can be described as hatred of Žid. Vocabulary and physical manifestations of anti-Semitism are directed against Jewish and non-Jewish persons or their property, institutions and religious sites of Jewish communities." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-25-ps2017-026-04-001-217.u3	Thank you, and according to the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, the debate will not be held. So we will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Well, I will, but I presume that most of the Members are here. So I think we're logged in in sufficient numbers. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 78, 162 Members signed up, for 160, they abstained from 2. The motion was accepted. So this concludes the discussion of this point and we proceed to the next fixed point. This is about
