ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u1	31. Government bill amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended /house print 333/ - first reading I will ask that the Lady of Labor and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and the rapporteur for the first reading of Lukáš Kolářík take their seats at the rapporteur's table. Madam Secretary, I think it's quiet enough for you to speak your opening words. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce House Press No. 333, which is a proposal for an amendment to the Health Insurance Act. The draft law shall be submitted following the cancellation of the probationary period in the event of temporary incapacity for work. The provision of compensation from the first day of temporary incapacity for work must be balanced by strengthening the control activities of employers and sickness insurance authorities, in particular the district social security administrations, on the correctness of the assessment of temporary incapacity for work and the control of compliance with the temporary work regime of an incompetent insured person, for which the proposed legislation creates better prerequisites. It is basically the introduction of the first phase of eIncapacity. The draft law contains two main measures, namely the introduction of mandatory electronic forms of reporting to the treating physician on the establishment and termination of temporary incapacity for work administered to the district social security administration and the associated shortening of the period within which the attending doctor sends this decision, and the second thing, the extension of the range of data that sickness insurance authorities can communicate to employers about the temporary incapacity for work of their employees. The introduction of mandatory electronisation of reports of occurrence and termination of temporary incapacity for work will bring the necessary acceleration of information between the treating physician and the district administration of social security. This will allow the district social security administration to respond more flexibly to the employer's request for information on the temporary incapacity of his staff, especially in cases where the employee -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u3	Madam Secretary, I am going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace! If you, colleagues, are discussing a subject other than the amendment to the Health Insurance Act, please in the foyer, let the Minister have the chance to finish his opening words in a dignified atmosphere. Thank you, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u4	Thank you. ... when the employee either fails to fulfil his obligation to the employer or the employer wants to verify these facts himself. The law assumes an electronic form of communication between the employer and the district administration of social security and thus employers will be able to verify very quickly whether or not the employee who has not joined the work is incapacity for work. The effectiveness of this draft law shall be determined on 1 July 2019, i.e. on the same date on which it is proposed that the period of cancellation be cancelled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u5	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Lukáš Kolářík, to present his report. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u6	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I would like to present a report here on House press number 333, which is a government bill amending Act No. 187, on sickness insurance, as amended. This House press was sent to Members on 19 November 2018. Subsequently, after discussing the draft law, the Organising Committee recommended its resolution on 22 November and also proposed the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The discussion of the press is also proposed for the agenda of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The proposed amendment responds to the cancellation of the time of the card in order to comply with the employer's request for immediate verification of whether the employee is ill. This proposal introduces the obligation of doctors to issue parts of temporary incapacity in electronic form. It's just a civil sphere. Thus, they are not members of the security forces and so on. This is mainly about communication on the axis of the doctor and the Czech Social Security Administration. The obligation to inform the employer of the temporary incapacity for work of the employee is left to the employees without undue delay. The employer is only given the opportunity to verify the employee's incapacity for work from the competent sickness insurance authority, which seems administratively problematic, especially for employers with a high number of employees. The Association of Practical Physicians further argues that the Czech Social Security Administration has up to eight days to respond to the employer, which means that it will go far beyond the time of illness and the time of the cardinal period. The employer will learn nothing online about his employee's illness. Only the Czech Social Security Administration will have access to the eIncompetents database. At the same time, the proposal shortens the doctor's period of notice of the beginning and end of the incapacity period from three working days to two days, respectively. not later than the day following the date on which the doctor gave a decision on the occurrence or termination of temporary incapacity for work. The proposed legislation envisages the emergence of costs on the part of doctors. This is the acquisition of medical software or the entire computer technology, for example in the case of rural doctors. The proposal also includes a change of the free leave regime, when it is determined by the doctor, and thus there will be no need for repeated authorisation from the OSSS assessment service. This proposal rejects, inter alia, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Association of Practice Physicians and the Society of General Medicine. It appears to be some kind of inter-step eIncompetent, whose full version is promised by the Ministry from 1. 1. 2020. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u7	I thank the rapporteur and we will now open a general debate in which I have Mr Jan Bauer's application, Mr Kaňkovský. Yes. I'd ask the same thing. Mr. Jan Bauer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for eIncompetent legislation has been developed quickly and has not undergone a proper legislative process. The proposed legal regulation of eIncapacity was not followed by a standard reminder procedure or an evaluation procedure for the impact of RIA regulation. Proposals for legal regulation eIncompetents, although The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs promptly consulted the occupational health insurance authorities, including representatives of the intelligence services, but this cooperation could not, of course, replace proper commentary procedures. Electronization of such a complex process without a thorough analysis of the current situation, assessment of all risks and quality prepared and properly remarked legislation, including the inclusion of all social security bodies, is a risk. Ladies and gentlemen, that was surprisingly not my words. I don't need to be critical of everything our government puts forward at all costs, but that was a quote from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs itself. I found them in the explanatory memorandum to another bill that passed or passes at second reading, because there are currently several House prints that they are dealing with, or are trying to deal with eIncompetent, and it is precisely to which the government wants us to cancel the original proposal misleading eIncompetent because it has somehow failed to implement them. I do not quote those words at random, nor is it intention to attack the Ministry now for past mistakes, but the problem is that even in the case of the law before us now, at this time, this House press, the ministry did not proceed differently. The legislation on sickness insurance under discussion has undergone a short notice procedure and has not been evaluated for the effects of the RIA. In the words of the Ministry, the proposal for eIncompetent legislation was processed quickly and did not go through a proper legislative process. Moreover, if you look at the progress of the preparation of this proposal in more detail, you will find that there have been some very important comments about it from, for example, the key Ministry of Health or the Office for Personal Data Protection. The truth is that the Ministry, as the petitioner, responded to these comments by simply releasing the contested paragraphs. On the one hand, it seems to have done well, on the other hand, pointing to the poverty of preparing legislative proposals by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It is often called legislative dilettantism or non-artificialism. So I don't know. We are happy that the government has moved on, finally sent something to the House that can bring the inability to practice, even in the first stage and without resolving any other follow-up issues, or should we return this proposal to the government so that the resorts between themselves and the House may first arrive in a comprehensive and coherent proposal that will be accepted by doctors, health services providers, employees and insured people and employers, that is to say, all those whom it will actually touch in the future? There is no doubt that the electronisation of the temporary incapacity decision-making process is necessary without discussion and belongs to the 21st century. But unfortunately, the analysis that we are repeatedly undergoing here because of the introduction of an e-Clerk shows that the government is unable to respond to the demands of today's time, and is persistently failing in the case of related legislation. Perhaps she should focus, and now, in the words of the Ministry, on a proper legislative process, and not tire out by promoting populist measures, such as in the recent past, the abolition of a functioning quarantine period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u9	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. Now, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mrs Pekarová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u10	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Members of the Government, Fellow Members, Fellow Members, Allow me also to comment on the amendment to the Health Insurance Act tabled by Minister Maláčová in the Chambers of the Press 333 for the Government. I'll follow up on my colleague Bauer. In our opinion, we all know what kind of miserable state the project was put into. Incompetents. As has already been said here, we have several Houses of Press in the House at the moment dealing with the electronisation of temporary incapacity for work, and it has already been mentioned here that, among other things, we have the House Press 204, where there are already a number of things in the quoted explanatory report, but among other things it says that the eIncapacity Project is a very complex legislative and technical one, and the House Printers 204 essentially justify the abolition of the eIncompetent project by its complexity and lack of time to prepare it. So many Parliamentary press 204, which we have at second reading. There is also an interesting position of the guarantee committee. I'm not going to discuss it here. And now I come to what the government is putting forward at the moment, and this is a new proposal for an electronic disability solution. I can say for myself that I am not opposed to electronization in health care. However, I always think and believe that it is necessary to ensure that the electronisation in health care, but also in public administration, is effective. And if we think about what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is presenting to us at the moment in the Houses of Press 333, there is no other way to evaluate this than as a semi-finished product. It is suggested that we have two parts of temporary incapacity for work solved by electronic means. It is within the framework of the acceleration of information towards the Czech Social Security Administration and also on the possibility of questions from employers. And the rest of those parts of temporary incapacity remain optional. The government says that this is actually the first step, that this is the first phase of the electronic disability solution, but I ask why we are going on the way back to some semi-finished product. Why we are not able to prepare a comprehensive standard that will introduce a complete electronic disability, which will be discussed with all stakeholders and with which there will be at least a partial agreement in the professional public. [[16.10 hours]] What I consider to be a big problem is the proposed legisvakance of this law. As the Minister has already mentioned, efficiency is proposed from 1. 7. 2019. If we realise that we are today in the first reading of this House press, we are not able to go through the whole legislative process before April of this year, even under an optimistic assumption. And then there will be a health facility and other bodies concerned for two months to prepare for this fundamental change. And here I will refer again to the explanatory memorandum, which is already to this press, where the petitioners speak, and here I quote: In view of the introduction of the duty of the treating physician to send a decision on the establishment and termination of the temporary incapacity of the relevant district social security administration, it is only electronically expected that suppliers of medical software will respond to this. It sounds logical for me. If someone gets software done to solve an electronic disability, they'll definitely want those superstructures for future steps. But again, do we really think that the software suppliers will make it in two months? And that they will be motivated to do so until the law comes out in the Collection of Laws? For each medical facility, it is additional funds spent. And who dares enter it at a time when the law is not passed? Personally, I am not a great expert on computer science, but I do not think that programming of an electronic incompetent module is some highlight of programming art. However, it must be said that the software used by our medical facilities, whether in the outpatient sphere or in hospitals, is a few dozen. That means it's not about programming one software, but it needs to be said that every medical facility has different software. Of course, some use the same, but there are dozens within the Republic. So I'd like to ask the Minister if he really considers the proposed legisvacanci correct, whether the double-tracking that we're actually getting the medical facilities into, where maybe, even on the basis of the explanatory report, we're assuming that we're more or less gonna force the medical devices to go completely electronic, so if he thinks it's correct and understandable and in practice fulfillable. I would also like to ask her whether the comments that have already been made by the mentioned subjects, and I would also mention another, the medical chamber, the Association of Practical Physicians, the Association of Hospitals, the Association of Outpatient Specialists, whether all these subjects and important players have been discussed in detail and whether all their comments have been incorporated. In my opinion, they weren't. And there is a huge risk, especially when we realize that we are going to introduce this obligation in the summer months, that medical devices are going to have a very hard time dealing with it, and that we are going to cause them more problems. And I would like to ask Minister Vojtěch as Minister of Health, when the Ministry of Health made a number of comments as to whether he did not see as a significant risk today to our staff-riding hospitals, but also to the terrain that we will put on their hump this semi-finished product, which they will have to deal with, which will bring them further financial and temporal demands. If it really isn't wise to prepare the proposal properly and move the legisvacation from 1. 1. 2020. I would consider this a good news and a sensible solution, because if we do it this way, we're going to have big problems. Among other things, many practitioners have already announced that if we approve this semi-finished product, it will really be the last straw to close their practice. So I would like to ask the Minister for an answer to my questions, and for the Club KDU ČSL I advise that we will certainly propose to shift efficiency from 1. 1. 2020 and some other changes in this proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u11	Thank you, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Before we continue, I state an apology from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at 16 o'clock for Mr Jan Skopeček's work. And I will invite Mr. Pavel Juříček to the microphone, who is reporting with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister said, it is in custody for the time of the card, so allow me to quote from § 61 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e): The decision on temporary incapacity for work and the decision on termination of temporary incapacity for work shall be sent by the treating physician to the address addressed to the competent health insurance authority on that day or the following day. At the same time, if we look at the paragraph - I will find it immediately - § 116 para. 7 - the sickness insurance authorities shall communicate to employers, at their request, within eight calendar days of the date of receipt of the application. So the employer has to ask the sickness insurance authorities to tell him that the person is ill within eight working days. Well, if that's what it's meant, it's a fraud on an employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u13	Thank you, Mr Juříček, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mrs Pekarová, Mr Válek will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard a lot here. I identify with the complaints of my previous speakers, colleagues who not only deal with this issue in committee, but, for example, Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský is a doctor himself, so I'm sure he can judge it very well from practice. I must say that I am very sorry that we are once again discussing a proposal that is sewn with a hot needle and which, I dare to predict, could bring about a similar problem that eIncompetents and even what we have been promoting here in the future. That means, I'd hate to see that in a year's time we're going to be re-exposed to a proposal that says: we discussed it then without RIA, we discussed it without a proper promotion within the professional society of doctors, and somehow we didn't make it, just like the proposal that we already have here at second reading. That is what we should try to avoid, and it is therefore appropriate that we submit this government proposal to a thorough examination. And I have to say, he doesn't come out positive at all. In view of the abolition of the time of the card, of course, the interest of employers, who pay from their first two weeks of pay compensation, or will be newly paid, is strengthened even more effectively to check the work of incompetent employees. However, this does not correspond to the eight-day time limit for processing the employer's application for information on the employee's incapacity for work. In my opinion, it would be right for the employer to receive information about the employee's disability automatically, not on request. Also, the deadline for sending electronic sick leave to the social security administration doctor set on the following working day after the incapacity is completely disproportionate and inadequate to the electronic means of exposure and transmission of the disability and would deserve an online transmission requirement. It's similar to EET, where it's possible, there it works, you pushed through with the tradesmen and you were able to design it within a short period of time, because it's only been two years since the law was passed into operation. In the event of a technological failure, of course, a delivery deadline would have to be set within, for example, one day, within 24 hours. I think that this request would only give the right to say that we will cancel the time of the card, but at the same time we will take care of the introduction of eIncompetents, so that the control in the first three days of the disease is effective. I would like to point out that this was one of our great concerns at the time of approval of the Karenary's period, so that the first three days of the illness will not be able to be checked by the employer that his employee is really ill, that he is actually following the treatment process as prescribed by his doctor. And that is also one of the main reservations when we talk about the fact that the system of quarantine was introduced because unfortunately, many, of course not all, have been abused by the disease, so that we don't throw everyone into one bag, certainly not by many, but by many employees. [[16.20 hours]] I think the complaints, as the employers have said, are reasonable. There are reasonable concerns that the system will not perform its function, it will not work well. At the same time, we pointed out the same thing when discussing eIncompetents in the past. So today we see that the Ministry has not learned much from this and does not present such a proposal that would be acceptable. I must point out that this does not sound like the TOP 09 is against electronization overall. On the contrary, I think that we should really move into the 21st century in this area as well. That it was time for us to really operate within the framework of just working incompetence electronically. I think it's often just so funny that those paper sick leave still work and you have to go around from doctor to employer and so on. But it has to be done well, so that it is able to work and so that in a few months when it starts to pay, we are not standing here before the system collapse, when it is not yet a match with those who are very concerned, and these are employers and, of course, also doctors. So if the Ministry is serious about the fact that it wants to implement the system this quickly, as my colleague warned about this activity, these are the fundamental criticisms that are there. And I think we should get a guarantee from the Ministry that the system will work. And, of course, the guarantees still mean nothing in practice. The moment it starts to work, we'll know if it ends up like some other electronizations that we've witnessed in the past and that didn't work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u15	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová. Mr Válek now and Mrs Aulická will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good thing that there are shifts in the electronisation of health - as a Member. But as a doctor and user, I'm a bit of an opposite opinion, because it turns out to be me. And now I would like to correct a little through Mr President Kaňkovský. There aren't dozens of programs, but there are hundreds of them. It can even be said that every hospital has its own information system, which is often done by the IT department of the hospital and is completely incompatible with those other hospitals' systems. That's the first thing. Second thing. The connection of these systems is completely illusionary. This is where the hospitals were able to connect in digital form. And as a radiologist, I'm very sorry for electronizing, for digitizing, because that's actually the de facto basis of our field at the moment. But how did the hospitals connect? Using some government rule of law? With, say, some sort of organizing through the ministries? No way. One link is a purely academic network created by Masaryk University. Other universities have joined it. The second link is de facto corporate business and corporate software. And there is a very similar situation in the electronic communication of medical facilities, where the idea that I would send a medical history from one hospital electronically to another hospital is an absolute illusion and it is unrealistic. And interference and other digitalizations, or other electronizations, further sending electronic documents in this system without his deep knowledge, deep analysis - and I don't want to say at all that it's anyone's fault sitting here in this room, whether ministers or Members, but it's just the reality of the system's state - so without a deep analysis of the system, it's a difficult experiment. Let's remember a year ago, and we were debating something here about an electronic recipe, and like we said, we're gonna wait a year. We've waited a year, we've done well, and I'm still convinced that 100 percent of the recipes are still not electronic. Because unlike you guys who don't write the recipes, I write them, and I know what the real problem is. And every one of us who writes them knows that. Of course it depends on the medical facility, of course it depends on a number of factors. But we should have first of all the facts and detailed analysis of the system's status before we introduce any change into that system, including electronic change. Every developer of new programs, anyone who goes on the market with a new program, tests the program, checks if it works, checks if it can work, and then carefully puts the program on the market. If he doesn't, it always ends very badly without exception. We don't want an electronic disability, we don't want another electronization, or digitalization in the health sector, or the introduction of an electronic document to lead to experimentation, and then by fighting like this, we want to verify in practice if it works, if it brings any problems. We want it to be no problem. Let's remember how many times we've discussed health care here over the past year. Did we discuss any particular factory? Did we discuss any specific colleges? Did we discuss any particular theater? No. But we were discussing a particular hospital in Ostrava. And we spent hours doing it. We all saw health, regardless of political affiliation, as a problem. Across the political spectrum, we discussed the huge problem of lack of doctors, a huge problem of lack of nurses. And I commend the government very much for strengthening the students of medical faculties and for the Minister of Health doing so to the students of medical faculties to get more money from the medical faculties. That's not enough. There's no point bringing anything new into this system unless the system is well controlled. And you know very well that the system is not under control. That the introduction of other programs, that further digitization of the system can only make the system more agitated and lead to other doctors and other health professionals ending their profession. Therefore, please, let us consider any step. Let's talk about the target. In my opinion, the aim is to clearly reduce the administration and digitize maximum, electronize the health sector so as to reduce the administration. But the goal is not to bring in similar elements as those proposed in this law, where we do not know that they will work and that they will bring what we expect. I therefore ask that we discuss this law and this proposal very carefully at the next readings and we carefully adopt any changes, including legislative ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u17	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this proposal. To begin with, perhaps I should say that this discussion of an incompetent woman is actually nothing new. At the end of the last parliamentary term, we actually supported the voluntary eIncompetent process, which Mr Běhounek put into the discussion of Law 259/2017, and which, despite some negative votes by Members, has therefore passed. However, now more or less the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has responded -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u19	Madam, I will also interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I think it would be appropriate for you to bring discussions that are not related to the topic into the foyer, and the subject of sickness insurance could be discussed in a dignified atmosphere. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u20	Thank you. I just really want to say that we are actually responding to this proposal. KSČM long-term supports the introduction of eIncompetent. And that's actually what was said in those discussions about the cancellation of the Karenary period. And we really don't see anything to make it as optimally and as quick as possible to introduce eIncompetents. But at the same time we also perceive the discussion, I think, comprehensively across the political spectrum, about systemization and not only with the Ministry of Health, but also with other departments. And that it is probably really necessary to discuss some issues within this proposal. [[16.30 hours]] Of course, we know that the most important thing is probably the interaction of the Ministry of Health, by the doctors themselves. And, as some of my colleagues have also pointed out here, I think that we will probably draw attention to the difficulties and the problems that we are experiencing mostly in committee. I'd just like to say that we really support the introduction of an e-Clerk, but as I said today at a press conference, I don't think that's the deadline from 1. 7. 2019 is real at the moment, and we perceive it rather that it is not even worth talking about this term anymore, even if we like it. But these are really things that carry other essential parameters. And even if we wanted to, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs itself, to do what it could, at this point, I think that we really are not able to really make this term, not only legislatively, but I think, above all, to implement it in practice. I would just like it to actually go through the first reading, put it into committees, and discuss what form the finally approved proposal should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u21	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Now, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, as the last one so far entered into the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Government, honourable House, nothing is perfect and no one is perfect. And I admit that I'm quite surprised here by my colleagues from the right, who have always fought and tried to promote electronization, digitization in basically all areas, that today we have heard reservations and warnings and let's wait and make it more perfect, etc. Me for patients, but also for personalists, because it's one of my professions, I'd like to say that I'd be very happy if the incompetent girl came as quickly as possible, because it saves a lot of time, a lot of problems, walking, carrying paper, etc. And it would just be a lot more user-friendly. Let's think about what the aim of the proposed adjustment is. It is to ensure implementation, and here I stress the first stage of electronic disability in the field of sickness insurance. As the Minister has already said, the proposal contains two main measures, and I would like to underline this - the introduction of a mandatory electronic form of reporting by the treating physician on the establishment and termination of the temporary incapacity for work administered by the district social security administration, and others, the extension of a range of data that health insurance authorities can communicate to employers about the temporary incapacity for work of their employees. Then it must also be said that the bill also contains measures which cannot be directly subordinated to one of those provisions. These are provisions allowing sickness insurance authorities to correct written errors in forms of temporary incapacity for work instead of the attending doctor, to abolish the time limit of the period for which the treating physician may authorise the so-called "incapacity for work." individual walks. These measures are, of course, only partial. However, the proposed proposal significantly shortens the interval between the doctor's decision on the establishment or termination of temporary incapacity and the moment at which this is communicated to the relevant district social security administration, but also between the time when the employer becomes aware of temporary incapacity for work. It should also be said that the proposal is also a harmonisation standard. In order to ensure the protection of personal data, a report of incapacity for work must not contain a diagnosis number. Ladies and gentlemen, I went to ask my physician, of course, how he sees the introduction of an electronic disability. He told me he had it in place a long time ago, and he'd like to use it, but no one's asking him to do more or less. I think, at least for me, that's a great reason, and I think that even for other doctors who work with computers, they have essentially all the administration in their patients, so that it's only good that the first stage is triggered, that someone will ask them for an electronic disability. And it will help patients, and it will help employers, especially personnel services. I intercede in order to release the bill by first reading, and, of course, on the technical things that colleagues here have been talking about, we can look at in the preparation and discussion of second reading. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u23	Thank you, Mrs Gajdůšková. I'll see if anyone checks in. Yes, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch is reporting for the debate and then the President of the Social Democracy Club and Minister Maláčová. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the Ministry of Health, we are, of course, working closely with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. For us we provide in particular the basic register of health workers, the National Register of Health Workers, which already works today, all doctors and other health professionals are registered in it. And it will actually serve as a reference register for the system so that it can be verified that the doctor is really a doctor and that he has the authority to issue an electronic disability. I have to say that we really perceive electronic failure in a broader context of electronization. Perhaps some of you know that currently in the legislative process, the substantive intention of the Act on the Electronisation of Health, which really puts data sharing to a great extent. And eIncompetent is undoubtedly one of the important elements of the precisely electronization of health care. So we are counting on this project for the future, although I must say, of course, that the project is primarily the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. But we're prepared to provide maximum synergies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u25	Thank you, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Now with priority rights, the President of the Social Democracy Club, then with priority rights, Madam Secretary. Mr. Chairman, just a moment longer. At today's meeting, Mrs Jana Levová apologizes from 17.00 to 18.00 for health reasons, from 16.30 the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok apologizes and from 16.30 to the end of the meeting day, Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u27	Yes, thank you for the suggestion. Now, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u28	Thank you. I would like to respond to some of the things that have fallen. Once again, I stress that this is a proposal that introduces so-called. the first stage of eIncapacity as at 1 July 2019. The second stage is due to take place on 1 January 2020. I understand that doctors, especially doctors, have a problem with an incapacity. I also understand the arguments that doctors over the age of 60, for example, should have an exception to an e-incapacity. But at the same time, we believe that this measure, as we propose it, should be comprehensive and should apply to all in 2019, to all health care providers in a uniform way, although I realize that some changes such as electronicisation may simply be very complex or new for those persons or providers to whom it applies. As far as the security detail is concerned, yes, the incapacity is only due in the civil sphere. We are discussing solutions in the area of security. And I think the latest cyber-security events are giving us the truth about this. [[16.40 hours]] As for that note for eight days, I would like to point out that the eight-day period is to be substantially reduced in the second phase of eIncompetent Electronisation on 1 January 2020. Personally, I do not agree with the view that electronisation or the introduction of eIncompetents should be in full operation, that it should be introduced in a large package, if you want to mark it, the big bang theory. I think that employers greatly appreciate the gradual implementation of this situation, and I am thinking in two stages, and we also know from the experience of the state administration that the single introduction of electronics has not been achieved in the past, so we are based on experience from the past. And I think the TOP 09 should be the last person to lecture on failed experiments with IT projects. As for this gradual negotiation, of course, we are discussing the matter very closely. The last time I reported on the progress of the implementation of the eIncapacity card was last week at a tripartite meeting. Since last week the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, respectively ČSSS has come up with a free solution for all doctors to 1. 7., in the form of a form that will greatly ease the situation with the introduction of the first phase of eInability, and because it is a solution from last week, I also announced at the tripartite meeting that we will convene negotiations with all the actors involved within two weeks. The meeting will take place during the month of February.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u29	Madam Secretary, I'm going to interrupt you and ask your party colleagues to calm down and, if necessary, transfer the conversation to the lobby. I have already asked the Chamber of Deputies several times, and I hope that this point can be completed in a dignified atmosphere. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u30	Thank you. And one final point. As for the Parliamentary Press 204, which was submitted by my predecessor, Minister Němcová, we have not yet withdrawn it, but we will do so in the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u31	Thank you to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová for the performance and this was the last application so far. Yes, my colleague Kaňkovský, still in the debate, in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u32	Once again, good afternoon, Madam Secretary, members of the Government, Mr Vice-President, colleagues, a few more comments on the debate under discussion. It has been said here from the mouth of our esteemed colleague, Mrs Gajdůškovášková, through Mr President, that the parties on the right are against electronisation or against e-inability. I can't speak for the other clubs, but the KDU-ČSL club is definitely not against electronization in health care, and I said it here and in my word. I just mentioned that we want the electronization to be effective. That means if we take another step in the electronization of health care, so that it's user-friendly to the paramedics. It has also been said several times today that we are dealing with the personnel crisis in the health sector, and every next inefficient step will make the situation worse. And that doesn't just apply to practical doctors. It must be realized that today it is far from true that exposure to temporary incapacity for work is a matter only for practitioners. Today, on the basis of other legislation, he exhibits incapacity for work and evidence of temporary incapacity for work and is further managed by every attending physician. So let me give you an example. I was on weekend duty 14 days ago, served 24 hours, during which time I treated about 65 patients and exhibited 22 occupational incompetences. 24-hour weekend service. It is also necessary to realize what time it will take to expose the temporary incapacity in writing today. Today, we often see patients, sometimes under stress, sometimes because their employers have a rather complicated name or do not remember an address, so sometimes it's quite a detective activity about how to fill a job in the basic data at all. And if at this point we introduce a semi-finished electronic incompetence, when we fill in the first and last parts electronically and leave the remaining parts optionally, it's just another time burden for those medical devices. I was saying that in the explanatory report, the MPSV assumes that some medical devices will be completely moved on, that they will basically be forced to do so a little bit. Yes, it's an assumption, but there's no way to count on it. Then I also wanted to ask the Minister about the sub-legal standards, because this legislative change also carries the need for sub-legal standards, and I want to ask about their preparation. Because if we don't have legal standards ready in time, we're gonna have a problem with that in practice again. And then I would like to ask the Minister once again, as she has also acted in cooperation with the Ministry of Health with the subjects concerned, that is to say with the professional chambers, with representatives of the hospital association and with other stakeholders who have a say in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u33	I thank the honourable Member for his speech and now we have two factual points. Before I give the floor to Mr Juříček and Mr Pávek, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg for health reasons. The Minister shall declare himself with priority rights, but in fact they shall have priority under the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u34	Yes, thank you again. I almost did not understand it, and it seems to me, Madam Secretary through Mr President, that it is absolutely completely smiling, because today the employee is obliged to tell the employer in three days' time the incapacity to work. And if there was a time of quarantine, if I'm not mistaken, it was agreed when it was an electronization, so it's online, so the employer should be the first to know that his employee is sick. I don't understand the concept of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u35	Thank you, Mr Juříček, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Petr Pávek's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond to Mrs Gajdůškovášková through Mr President, in the sense that the Mayors, too, are very much in favour of supporting eIncompetents, for the introduction of an electronic system - with emphasis on the word functional. And the debate here has shown how many shortcomings that system still has. For this reason, I would like to appeal to you not to support Mr Chvojka's proposal through Mr President, which proposes a shortening of the time limit for committee discussions. I believe that the system, which is not yet a comprehensive impression, deserves a wider debate and the possibility for corrective measures in the form of an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u37	Thank you, Mr Pávek, for keeping time on the point of fact. Madam Secretary will wait a little while longer, Mr Válek has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to repeat that if it came out this way, there is no way that I am opposed to the electronisation of health care, on the contrary, I have been using nothing other than electronic health care for the past fifteen years as a radiologist and I would like to invite you, through the President's Member, to the conference in Brno, which I have been holding for 18 years, Telemedicina, teleradiology and electronization of health, where 200 experts from all over the Czech Republic are meeting and we are really discussing this issue very deeply, and I will very much appreciate it if you accept the invitation and take part in this event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u39	Thank you. And now, therefore, a proper application with priority rights of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u40	Thank you. As far as the legal standards are concerned, they will be prepared following the consultation of this legislation. As for the question that I have dealt with, I would like to remind you that in December a round table took place at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, almost three hours, with all the representatives of the issue, from professional chambers, doctors' representatives, but also representatives of social partners. That round table was attended, as I remember correctly, by nearly sixty people. This is where the matter was discussed in detail. I also have a number of bilateral meetings on this issue, last week with Mr Kubk from the Czech Medical Chamber. [[16.50 hours]] As for the time limits, the first phase of eIncapacity reduces the period when there is an obligation to report temporary incapacity for work from the current three days, but it can practically be up to four days, because if you report it on Thursday, so because it is working days, the inability to work from the attending physician will arrive basically on Tuesday to one day, that means that information on incapacity for work must be submitted by the attending physician if this first stage of eIncapacity is approved - so it must be reported on the working day following the date of temporary incapacity for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u41	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. At this point, it's the last application for a debate. If I don't see anyone from where I'm standing, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary, rapporteur. The rapporteur will sum up the debate, please. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to sum up the debate. 11 speeches were made in the general debate, four of which were factual points. And a proposal was made to shorten the hearing period to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u43	Thank you to the rapporteur. The motion to return or reject the motion has not been made, so we can deal with the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. I am doing this because I have asked colleagues and colleagues several times to bring discussions outside the subject into the lobby, and I do not want to deprive them of the vote, so I will wait for a moment. But I'm saying that first we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? No one's checking in, but I'm checking out... Yes, my colleague Juříček proposes another guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u44	I propose an economic committee because this concerns the whole economy of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u45	Okay, yes, there will be a suggestion. First, we will vote on the counter-proposal on the commandment to the Economic Committee. I checked you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration, sign up with your I.D. cards. We will decide on the motion to the Committee on Economic Affairs as a committee on the guarantee vote number 115, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 115, from 154 for 51 Members present, against 42, the proposal was not adopted. We will therefore vote on the proposal from the Organisational Committee to make the Guarantee Committee a Social Policy Committee. We're going to decide in the 116 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 116, from the present 160 for 158, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I see a colleague, Juříček, reporting for a debate on the commandment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u46	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to the Economic Committee as well. At that first stage, I didn't mean as a guarantee, but an assignment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u47	Yes, logical. Mr. Pávek's colleague first. I am so sorry, Mr Member, I am aware that I have misjudged the order of Members to be applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, then a colleague of the Pávek with the proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u48	I'd like to propose a health committee as a guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u49	The guarantee can't be, it's voted on, Mr. Ambassador. Another committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u50	Okay, next committee. Sorry. Because I was thinking, because my colleague Pávek I had the same idea. That's how it was in my head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-01-29-ps2017-026-05-005-031.u51	I'm sorry, Mr. Pávek now. He's giving up. He wanted to make the same proposal. We have a commandment. I beg the peace of the House! If you don't respect yourself, at least respect the stenographers who must record it! Thank you. We have two proposals for the commandment to other committees, namely the Committee on Economic and Health. In the vote number 117, we will decide on the commandment of the Economic Committee. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 117, from 161 Members present for 121 Members, against 11. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the commandment of the Health Committee. We will decide in the vote number 118, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the health committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 118, of the 162 Members present for 156, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. I can say that other committees, to which this press 333, is the Committee of Economics and the Committee of Health. We now have a proposal from the debate, namely a reduction of the time limit for discussion to 30 days. We will decide in the vote number 119, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 119, from 162 Members present for 23, against 66. The motion was not accepted. I therefore note that the guarantee committee for the discussion of the press 333, the Government's draft law on sickness insurance, is the Committee on Social Policy and other committees that will discuss this press and are ordered by them, the Committee on Economic and Health. The deadline for discussion of the press remains under the law for 60 days. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 31. Let's continue with point number
