ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u1	20. Government draft law on real estate intermediation and amendment of Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business (business law), as amended (Act on real estate mediation) /house print 391/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová. Please take the floor. And please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u2	Thank you for your word. I would like to present a second reading of the draft law on real estate mediation, which should primarily protect clients and clarify the real estate market. As far as the committee is concerned, the guarantee committee is an economic committee which has not adopted any amendment and supported the bill as a whole. The Constitutional Committee dealt with the issue of money savings, adopted and proposed an amendment and supported the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u3	Thank you, too. Thank you for updating the board. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 391/1 to 6. I ask that Mr Patrik Nacher take the floor of the Committee on Economic Affairs and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to make this very short, because we put it on a solid point, so that it makes sense for us to negotiate a second reading, but at 1:30 p.m., there's another fixed point, so I'm just going to say how it was discussed. The Constitutional Committee, as has already been said, adopted one resolution, adopted the amendment by Helena Válková, Táňa Malá, Dominik Feri, under number 391/6. The Committee on Guarantees, the Economic Committee, has not adopted any of the amendments concerning, in particular, the issue of safekeeping, insurance and education. He accepted it in the form it came to the committee. The Economic Committee met on 25 June and actually commissioned me to read here that it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the Parliamentary press 391 in the form it was proposed because no amendment was adopted. As far as material matters are concerned, I will then return to this as rapporteur at third reading. Now, I don't want to hold off so we can really make it to the point that we put it on a solid spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u5	I, too, thank you, and I now ask the rapporteur of Mr Dominik Feri's constitutional legal committee to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Government, the constitutional committee has repeatedly addressed this press, and on 18 September we have approved a resolution which we recommend to approve the law, and we have also approved an amendment, as Patrik Nacher has already mentioned. We have approved it as the Parliamentary Press 391/6, where you will find the full text, and I will comment on its content in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u7	Thank you. So I'm opening up a general debate to which there are seven entries at the moment. Mr Feri is the first to sign up, Mr Kalous will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u8	Thank you again for the floor. I'll try it really briefly so we can make it. They have been profiled over time, and Professor Válková and colleague Malá, with whom we worked on this proposal, have basically profiled three paths. One way is to maintain the current situation in terms of safekeeping, another way is to prohibit safekeeping and to identify only some qualified entities, banks, notaries, lawyers, foreign banks that can provide them, and in between there is an approved amendment to the Constitutional Legal Committee, that is to say to allow, but to follow very strict conditions. In that spirit, the proposal was processed. We invited to cooperate, we agreed with the Ministry and the Ministry invited the cooperation of the Czech National Bank and the Ministry of Finance of the FAÚ. That means, on this side, the proposal is alienated, but I would still like it, because it is a compromise, and I would like the compromise to be made between something and something. And if I didn't sign up here for an amendment that forbids all the safekeeping - because it wasn't completely convincingly rejected by the constitutional law committee, there were just significant doubts that real estate brokers shouldn't provide the safekeeping - so if I hadn't read the bill, there'd be just a compromise in the game, and the original government draft, which I wouldn't consider happy, because it wouldn't even be a compromise, it would be a concession. That is why, in a detailed debate, I will then sign up for my amendment so that everything is in play and everything is in play. [[Nesroz.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u9	I, too, thank you, and I have here with the de facto remark of Mr Válek. If that's true? It doesn't look like it. So please Mr Kalous for the general debate, Mr Dolínek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u10	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to give a quick explanation of the nature of my amendment, which is to supplement the trade law. It is designed to make real estate mediation accessible to those who have achieved a bachelor's level of education and after the first year they found that they want to continue in the real estate sector and are interested in further education in this field. Thus, my amendment allows the acquisition of a trade licence for the activities of a real estate broker to graduates of a bachelor's degree in fields other than A and with a shorter period of practice than in point C and appropriately complements the range of opportunities for obtaining a trade licence for the activities of a real estate agent. It is therefore appropriate to allow young people to enter this sector at the beginning of their careers and to help them find real estate applications in which 85 percent of all fixed assets in the economy in the Czech Republic are accumulated according to the Czech Statistical Office. Limiting access to the real estate sector is necessary for the overall boost of the real estate market, on the other hand, there will still be many experts who will be able to provide qualified real estate mediation services at a sufficient level, and these services almost affect each and every one of us. I will give one example, and this is an internationally recognised course with a focus on real estate which is of very high quality and which would meet the above definition of the proposed change, and it is an MBA programme which is organised by the Department of Business Finance and valuation at the Faculty of Finance and Accounting at the University of Economics, where this MBA programme combines the economic, legal and technical view of the real estate market in local regional and international contexts. Thank you for your support, for your attention, and then I will join you in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u11	Thank you. And now, please Mr Dolínek, Mr Pour will be ready for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u12	Thank you. Let me first address this law in general, followed by three amendments, which I will, of course, then apply to. I guess I don't have to talk about the difference between banks, lawyers, notaries and other offices in the same area in general, but it doesn't work for me, and I'm glad that there is a compromise proposal for the possibility of safekeeping, which I hope the House will support. And it's not gonna make me talk here about how in the past few months things have been going on here, like real estate agencies are unreliable, that they can take their clients' money in safekeeping and the like. I think it's very unfair, and the discussion was one-sided and not entirely fair, because I could do several times on a number of cases here, I can quote, even when it was described, when the lawyers abused the storage and the money was taken away. [[13.10 hours]] That is why I originally had a much larger speech, but thanks to the compromise proposal, and I firmly believe that the Minister will support it, I will pass and I am glad that this is the way it is adapted. The only thing I would mention about the safekeeping is that real estate agencies will only be able to take safekeeping cash-free, on the other hand, lawyers still have an opportunity up to - now it's about 250 grand - to receive cash, so it's not Minister Dostálová, but to focus on whether we should happen to look at lawyers in the future to remove the cash income there, because it's still a threat to us. And one more thing that didn't come out very clearly in the debate, and that's that we need to realize that when someone uses the safekeeping, and in this case, the real estate agency, as a safekeeping, it's exactly an anti-money laundering tool. It's probably the worst thing when someone buys real estate among themselves, and I'm not gonna say where these people come from, the money goes almost without banks and no safe deposit from anything, and then it's hard to find out how the money came from, where they went missing, and so on. So I think it's good to leave the instrument so that the comfortable way of real estate is, thereby ensuring that our goals in the fight against corruption and money laundering are met. As regards other amendments, which are already specifically mine, one concerns real estate insurance. The originally proposed provision of Section 7 (1) lays down the minimum amount of insurance for all real estate intermediaries, i.e. for persons to whom a business licence will be issued and will carry out real estate activities, but does not distinguish whether they operate directly in relation to clients or as representatives of a real estate agency. I suggest that there should be an increase in the insurance policy. The matter is simple, of course the real estate market in some smaller municipalities does not have such real estate as to make the insurances have to be high, but we know very well that the district cities, let alone the regional and, above all, the capital of Prague, have real estates which significantly exceed the required insurances. That's why I suggest that the insurance be higher, and it's the protection of the client. Like those safes, we've been dealing with client protection, so we're dealing with it here. Then there's one small matter that concerns the termination of the contracts. The pursued intention of the law, which is consumer protection, corresponds to the setting of a maximum period of notice of contracts, and I propose that it be clear that it is with the consumer, that is, with the natural person, but that the real estate agencies are not pushed into the fact that the legal person must have only a monthly notice period, because, for example, for large property development projects, there is not a stronger real estate player, but the developer. And there, by law, as proposed, it follows that within a month there would also be a mandatory notice period, and I suggest that legal entities can adjust it differently, because, for example, it would be appropriate for a real estate agency to have three months so that it might be possible for her to have a statement adjusted with her client, which is the developer. After all, they're big projects, the real estate agency has to be very open about it, and it's not always guaranteed that the profits will come. The last amendment concerns the education of a real estate agent. It's already been discussed here. I propose some adjustments so that the condition for the performance of real estate activities is the recognition of higher education acquired in the Master's degree programme, and other things as set out in the amendment. Since we have limited time, I won't delay it any longer. I'll ask my colleagues to read it. I think it's important that people working in the real estate sector, in those offices, are people we can trust. Often our investment in housing is the biggest investment in our lives, and therefore we should be accompanied by someone who has education, practice and solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u13	Thank you, too, and please Mr Pour, Mr Zahradník will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill that I consider important. Although it affects a subject where people don't normally move so often, it is often met several times in life by most citizens. It is a purchase, sale or rental of real estate and a professional assistance from real estate brokers. For an ordinary citizen, this is one of the biggest transactions in life. I therefore support the intention of the petitioner to give this kind of business a legislative framework. I am glad that the aim of the law is to cultivate real estate environments and increase trust in real estate agencies. I would now like to justify my amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. According to the original proposal in the form in which it came to the Chamber of Deputies, real estate agencies were entitled to provide, although not to offer, the custody of funds in connection with real estate trade without restrictions. There was then an amendment, which proposes to ban this completely and to carry out its safekeeping only through the listed persons. After hearing the reasons for both of these positions, I decided to put forward a compromise proposal which aims to set the threshold for so-called smaller trade, where safekeeping could also be provided by real estate agencies, and a larger trade where such safekeeping would be provided only by banks, foreign banks, notaries or lawyers. I have proposed this amount in the amount of CZK 890,000, when I will further justify this amount. In the Government's submitted draft law, Paragraph 4 proposes an amendment whereby real estate intermediaries are prohibited from offering, not providing, custody for the purpose of ensuring performance from the real estate contract. During the discussion of the draft law presented at first reading, the representative of the petitioner, the Minister for Regional Development, stated in the justification of the modification chosen that it is necessary to distinguish large shops and small shops with the possibility of providing safekeeping by real estate intermediaries in small shops, in large stores the safekeeping should be entrusted to professionals. However, there is no distinction in the proposed text of the law on small and large transactions and the possibility of providing safekeeping is regulated for all shops as well. The amendment therefore proposes setting a limit within which it would be possible to provide safekeeping to real estate brokers, with the fact that, in the event of a higher amount, the real estate agent could only mediate with notaries, lawyers, banks, foreign banks. In determining the level of this threshold, I was based on the information contained in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, where on page 28, the government states that the average value of real estate trade mediated by selected large real estate agencies and representatives of smaller real estate agencies amounted to approximately CZK 890 thousand between 2015 and 2017. I therefore propose that the above limit should be the sum of CZK 890 thousand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u15	I also thank Mr Zahradník for the general debate, Mrs Válková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u16	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I have already spoken about this law at first reading, so I will rather limit myself to explaining and justifying my amendments. I have tabled one amendment, which, of course, has eleven points, and I will now introduce you to them. The first proposal is that it proposes to repeal Section 4. This is the incriminate paragraph that prohibits the real estate intermediary from offering custody for the purpose of securing the performance of the real estate contract, unless it is a deposit with a bank foreign or domestic, or with a notary or lawyer. My opinion is that the client is sufficiently judgmental to decide whether the real estate agency is trustworthy enough to possibly use its offer to secure the money, or whether he prefers to deposit his funds with the bank or with a lawyer or notary. The question whether banks, lawyers, or notaries, with all due respect for these institutions, are somehow more honest or trustworthy than other people, among whom are real estate brokers... Their credibility is also supported by the fact that they are legally insured from their activities, so that the insurance here can then cover their possible errors. So my first proposal is to cancel § 4, i.e. to give real estate brokers, brokers, the opportunity to offer custody. [[13.20 hours]] It is then directly linked to the proposal No. 3. The insurance of real estate intermediaries is then indicated in Section 7. I propose that if my first proposal had been approved, that paragraph 4 should be repealed in order to vote on option 4. 1 of my proposal, which is that the insurance amount is increased from CZK 1,750,000 to CZK 25,000,000 and the amount that is higher there, 3,500 000 to replace the amount of 50,000,000, i.e. to increase significantly the amount of insurance that real estate brokers would have to insure. However, if my proposal to repeal § 4 was not approved, then I consider the obligation to insurance brokers to be useless, because they have no way of causing any financial damage to their client if they do not directly dispose of his money. Then I propose § 7, defining insurance brokers, cancel and other proposals renumber. I'm gonna go back to design number one. 2 which defines the legal integrity of the real estate agent. I note here that a good natural person, who is therefore a member of a statutory body and must be blameless, may not be the owner of a legal person directly, but it is therefore a natural person whom he has entrusted to the administration of his company, i.e. that integrity should fall on a person who is a member of a statutory body, representative of a legal person or who is in a similar position as a member of a statutory body. So the requirement of integrity directly to the owner is irrelevant and redundant. The fourth proposal concerns what I was talking about here at first reading, that there is some confusion in the word "interested" which, according to the legislator, the lawmaker, is determined by the person who comes to the real estate broker, is the owner of some property that he brings to him as an object of sale, and wants the broker to take it up and apply it on the market. Then we really need to make a contract on real estate mediation. Sometimes but, especially in § 11 para. 1, is the word "interested" meaning the one who comes and wants to buy, responds to the offer that the real estate broker puts on the market, and wants to buy it. Here I propose that his position be specified not to be referred to as "interested party', but as "interested party to acquire the right to immovable property', or precisely as to who is interested in acquiring the right to immovable property, so, in short, the term, if approved, "interested party to acquire the right to immovable property' will be used. So to distinguish these two things, to specify the use of the term "interester" in our law. Similarly, this confusion appears in Section 12, i.e. I propose to replace the word "interested party" once again with the word "interested party" when it comes to buying the property with the word "interested party to acquire the right to immovable property." The reasoning is the same as for point 4. Section 12, par. 4 I propose to cancel, because "the applicant for the acquisition of the right to immovable property" does not enter into any real estate contract, he seeks to conclude a purchase contract with him so that the property can be purchased. So it's pointless for a real estate contract to be mentioned here in some way. Again § 13 mistakenly manipulates who is interested in acquiring the real estate, i.e. I suggest that it be deleted. In Section 14, which I have here before me, it is said that it is not possible to impose an obligation on interested parties, i.e. therefore, which is the consumer, here you write, or "interested parties about acquiring the right to immovable property" in order to have to enter into a real estate contract. So here I add the sentence: "This, however, does not exempt the candidate from the obligation to pay the real estate broker costs and loss of profit. " Paragraph 18 and paragraph 9 of my proposal - I think that was mentioned by colleague Dolínek. There is a notice period of one month, in my opinion it is short. The real estate agent will do a lot of work in collecting the documentation for the performance of the real estate contract. I propose that the notice be not a month, but three months. The tenth point of my proposal - § 19 para. 4 specifies the contract, the late conclusion of which is to be the reason for the termination of the right to commission, as a real estate contract, so as to make it clear what it is. Finally, the last, eleventh point - in Section 26, which is an effective paragraph, given that the year "2020" will be soon, January is close, some brokers would not be able to make their respective changes, I propose that it be replaced by the number "2020" so that the validity and effectiveness of the law will shift to 2021. In a detailed debate, I will then sign up for my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u17	Thank you and I invite another speaker, Mrs Válková. I have President Fiala here with a point of fact. You want to get off now? No, okay. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear fellow Members, I would like to be very brief, because here, Mr Feri, a colleague of yours, Mr President, has rightly said so, when he pointed out that our amendment was adopted by the Constitutional Legal Committee by approving it. Basically, there are three fundamental changes and clarifications on a material basis. It continues to allow real estate agencies to provide safekeeping, but under significantly stricter conditions: in addition to the written form on a separate document, such an application must be made to the interested party, the deposit contract must be in writing. Everything is described there, and everything is exactly identified, and therefore controlled by the one who will control it. I'll comment on that in a minute. So yes, real estate agencies may continue to provide safekeeping, but the conditions are strict. - First. Two. In the event of an offence in this area, a violation of the law, it is classified as an offence and can be fined up to CZK 500,000. And the third thing that's important. Of course, someone must also control compliance, and we finally agreed after long discussions that they would do municipal trade offices. The offenses that are precisely set out in the amendment will then also be discussed by the Ministry. So that's it for me. I will sign up in a detailed debate on the proposal. It is a proposal that Mr Dominik Feri, Mrs Malá and I, called for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u19	Thank you, too. We have one more minute, so I'd like to invite Mr. Munzar to the microphone if he can make it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary says I can make it in one minute. In one minute, I'm afraid I can't really say the reasons that will lead me to propose that the law be rejected until the third reading as a whole. I'd like to justify it here. I wouldn't want to say it in one sentence. Therefore, let me say at least that we have three basic problems with this law. First of all, the basic problem is that de facto under the cover of consumer protection...
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u21	Ambassador, I understand. I would ask the House for peace. And so it's 1:30 p.m., so we won't be able to reach this point. I'm going to interrupt him because at this point, we have a fixed point. I'm going to ask you not to leave the O.R. because we have a vote to make. Before opening the next points, I was asked to speak with priority rights by President Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u22	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you, on behalf of the SPD Membership, to meet with the SPD Members' Club on the ground that negotiations have been changed this morning which we have not initiated, we voted against and we must consult. [[on a break]] Thank you very much. [[Reactions in the O.R. regarding the length of the break.]] Until the end of today's day, i.e. until 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u23	So until 9:00 p.m., because the meeting day ends at 9:00 p.m. Please specify your proposal. And I have Mr. Chairman Michálek reporting to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u24	We only have two hours to take breaks, two hours tops.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u25	Okay. Thank you. President Michálek has yet to report with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u26	I'm a little surprised by the SPD's attitude that he wants to end 30 minutes before the end of business hours. But if they need time to consult, I respect that, of course, and the election will take place at the next meeting, I suppose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u27	Thank you. There's a request for a break that kind of crashes what's been arranged. Now, I don't know if I should call a meeting of club presidents, or if somebody's gonna propose to take out the remaining points. Chairman Fiala? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u28	Thank you through the chairman of the pirát, the chairman of the Pirates Club, who understands our decision. It's really a strategy thing. However, Mr President, politely allow me to propose the elimination of all remaining points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-09-27-ps2017-034-08-005-020.u29	Yes. Thank you. We have here a proposal to remove all remaining unnegotiated points from the agenda of this meeting. I think the proposal is clear. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. I don't see a checkout application at the moment. I see, so I'll check you out. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. again. Please log in with your cards again. We will vote on the elimination of all remaining points. I'll wait for the number of applicants to settle. Yes, it looks like they're all logged in as we speak. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of shutting all the remaining points off the show. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 230, 133 Members and Members are registered, for 79, against 36. The motion has been approved. We've disabled all the points on this meeting's agenda. Before I interrupt the meeting, I'll introduce you to the tickets. Mr Špičák apologizes to us from 13:00 to 14:30 for reasons of illness and Mr Výborný between 13:00 and 13:30 for reasons of work. I didn't read these apologies because I wanted to give space to the points under discussion. And that is really all at the moment, because there is nothing left on the agenda for the meeting. Thank you for your participation and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. Next time, the House will act from Tuesday, October 15. Thank you and have a good day again. And for the record, I'm ending the 34th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies because we've discussed everything.
