ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-004-004.u1	4. The draft law amending Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies and on the amendment of certain laws (Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies) and Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German press 38/9/ - rejected by the Senate This proposal was dealt with on Tuesday, 12 March of this year. The motion was interrupted in the debate. I would remind you that the resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill is available to us as House Press 38/10 and this proposal was also served by House Document 2342, which contains the Senate Resolution 112 of the 6th meeting of 27 February 2019. Senator Tomáš Goláň has already taken the position at the rapporteur's table and I will ask the plaintiff to take the position at the rapporteur's table, Mr Stanislav Grospič. We will continue the adjourned debate. We interrupted the debate on Tuesday, 12 March when Mr Miroslav Grebeníček was speaking, so I am asking the Member whether he wants to continue his adjourned speech. Yes. The MP wants to continue, so you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-004-004.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to continue my interrupted speech on 12 March this year, as has just been said. Before I move on to other facts and arguments, I think it is polite to briefly recall the fundamentals that led me to respond to the Senate debate and the Senate's procedure. [[Big noise in the hall.]] When the Senate rejected the proposal for taxing financial compensation to churches on February 27 of this year, most senators resorted to an ideological cliché instead of a substantive assessment of the proposal. In the case of the proposed taxation of the financial gift, which the coalition parties of the pro-corruption government of Petr Nečas gave to the selected churches, it is said that the senators say that they will not judge or even unconstitutional amendment. I have therefore pointed out in my opening speech that the debate in the Senate lacked factuality -
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-004-004.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can hear each other. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-004-004.u4	- and it was conducted in ideological terms with the help of invectors, but also with the interpretation of untruths. It's easy to verify. I have already mentioned this and I repeat it again for the sake of order today that the legitimate requirement for taxation of immoral church compensation is not just a matter of communists and is not contrary to constitutional order, as some senators have tried to say. It's legitimate, completely legal, legitimate and fair. I also pointed out that this is an indisputable fact that the land and forests on which the Roman Catholic Church and its dignitaries were working and still claiming, in particular, were not the property of the church. Most of them fell under land reform law soon after the establishment of the Czechoslovak Republic, i.e. in 1919, and at that time, the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia was not in government. The land used by the church, not as the land owned by the church, but as public property, was removed from the camp. At that time, church dignitaries claimed this very fact. Yes, when they wanted to prevent the parceling of land for the benefit of small peasants and landless, church dignitaries claimed that it was not possible to distribute land to the needy, because it was not private land, it was the property of churches, but public property. I have also demonstrated that, following the liberation of the Republic, the programme for the revision and completion of land reform was a programme for all post-war political parties and folk parties. I appointed here Monsignor Jan Šrámek, Chairman of the Czechoslovak Republic. The People's Party, which held the position of Deputy Prime Minister between 1945 and 1948 and which, together with the People's Ministers František Hála and Adolf Procházka, undertook to fulfil the Government's programme statement of 8 July 1946. I would like to reiterate the resemblance of this programming statement: With regard to the matter of land, the government considers it necessary, first and foremost, to end confiscation of the land of traitors and collaborators. Secondly, there will be a need to review all cases where, in the first land reform, the land was released from the farm, although it belonged to the fund under the law. Thirdly, the government also intends to proceed with the revision of the allocation procedure in so-called residual farms. On the one hand, the government intends to allocate the land thus obtained to small farmers from peasants, housekeepers and landless, and to preserve it in whole buildings as exemplary research, cultivation and breeding stations in public administration. So if some ideologues in the Senate are pulling out a ghost of communism, and if Cardinal Dominik Duka is even not ashamed to call the taxation of church compensation a communist crime, I must ask: Do senators and cardinals so eagerly reach out for taxpayers' money and who refuses to pay the tax to mark Monsignor Šrámek and his folk colleagues in the government as communists? What about spiritual Josef Plojhar? He has been Minister of Health since 1948 for many years in so called. The communist government and since 1951 was like the President of the Czechoslovak Republic. People's Party, as well as the chair of the Catholic clergy's National Peace Committee. Even today, his words ring in the ears of many commemorators: We, members of the Czechoslovak Republic. People's parties, organizing honest, Christian-minded citizens of our country in their ranks, have applied out of our own conviction to deliberate cooperation in the National Front led by the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. He even claimed that open, fruitful and successful cooperation with communists in a socialist state could be an example for Christians in countries with different social systems. And I would also like to ask myself another question: Is it to be a crime to tax an immoral gift to churches, paid out of taxpayers' money? In the name of the majority of citizens who do not claim the property and money of the state endowed with churches, the following question is also appropriate: How, in accordance with the Bible's Desater and good manners, is the hand of the Roman Catholic Church still stretched out, and the fact that even after the acquisition of immense immovable property and financial gift from the state, most non-Catholic citizens, not just church members, must pay the salaries of priests and meet the religious needs and services of Catholic believers? [[11.20 hours]] If I recently mentioned the personal experience of the religiousist Ivan Odilo Štampach with Dominik Duka, the fact that Duka has his own optics of the church boss, who will not admit that something bad might happen in the church and that in the case of the Duka and the Roman Catholic Church, there is also power deviance, then it doesn't matter. Ambition and financial claims by churches towards the Czech state and all citizens, their unwillingness to pay taxes, as well as others, are in fundamental conflict with the values to which they are misleadingly claiming. I have already picked up the remarkable personality of Cardinal František Tomášek several times. However, on the example of immoral conduct and the business of the Roman Union community of the Order of St. Voršila in Prague, I also explained why the Church lost moral authority behind the Cardinals Miloslav Vlk and Dominik Duka. Certainly it wasn't just a mob case of horsies who took what didn't belong to them so that they would sell it strangely for tens of millions and then demand the release of the sold one again, which cost our National Theatre another 290 million crowns. There are already countless claims and disputes raised by the Roman Catholic Church, in which the Roman Catholic Church stretches out and continues to stretch its hand after the property of the state, communities, companies and citizens. Despite the immoral financial gift of money from the state and all citizens, there are already thousands of them. However, with respect and respect, many citizens today look to the Brotherhood of Baptists whose leaders have refused to sign the treaty. Reason? Like Prime Minister Andrej Babiš today, they thought the financial compensation was excessive. The chairman of the Executive Committee of the Brotherly Unity of Baptists Milan Kern justified their decision as follows: We have been operating here for more than 120 years and for most of that time we have been working through self-financing, not by subsidizing the state. In addition, he noted: In the property settlement law, it is written that it is to be used for churches to form a property base and to be independent of the state. We do not want to create a property base from foreign sources, i.e. from the state. The Baptists did not want to create a property base from foreign sources and refused to take over the CZK 227 million. This, too, is evidence of the shameful purpose of the property settlement law with churches, which saw the light of day not only due to the corrupt government of Petr Nečas, but also to the Roman Catholic Church headed by Cardinal Dominik Duka. Bohuslav Sobotka, former Prime Minister of Bohuslav Sobotka, expressed this remarkably when he wrote in July 2012: The Church should be a messenger of grace and forgiveness, not subject to greed and use arrogant abuse of power from the right. The so-called church restitution then called Sobotka overpriced, unfair and risky. And so were many others. For example, singer, musician and education lawyer Janek Ledecký, who publicly declared that so-called church restitution is a mockery of the principle of the direction of our state since 1918 and the state-building democratic ideas of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk. He had, as Ledecký said, more than clear about terms such as honesty, truthfulness or honesty in connection with the Catholic Church and the violent recatholization of Czech history. Ledecký clearly expressed himself in favour of taxing financial gifts to churches, and he set a specific example where the Apostolic Church, with less than five thousand members, is to obtain a financial compensation of one billion and more than 56 million crowns under the law on religious restitution. Even though it wasn't registered until 1989. Ladies and gentlemen, the public's property coffers were also illustrated by the practicing Catholic and psychologist Jeroným Klimeš. He said in July 2012: I lived in Libeznice near Prague. Of the 2,000 inhabitants, 40 of us went to church, or exactly 2 percent of the population. According to the current draft restitution law, each Čech will pay a total of CZK 13,000 to the church, i.e. 26 million in Líbeznice. Then he asked three rhetorical questions: What will those 40 people do with the 26 million? And why should 1 960 people pay the 40 such sums? How do we convince the atheists to give us 13,000 crowns each? The following note of Klimešův cannot be forgotten: I think everyone should pay for the ring they attend. Let the football players and the Catholic Church pay Catholics. I know very well that churches are not a association of gardeners or fishermen or hunters, although so many perceive them. Because there's one big difference. The gardeners never sought power, and they never had power. However, this cannot be said about the Roman Catholic Church. In March 2013, the Civil Democrat and Minister of Nečasův's Government Martin Kuba, who was surprised by the question of where and when the coalition valued the money compensation for property where the Church does not have to prove that it belonged to them, unlike the real estate they have to prove it to. Now I confess, his answer was that I don't know exactly what the difference is, and I can't answer that question. Minister Kuba could not even answer that question, because there was no comprehensive inventory of assets that would be based on both the valuation and the overall calculation. Moreover, he probably had no idea that the representatives of the newly established Czechoslovak state after 1918 on international soil had justifiably defended the position that the church estates were state property and were entrusted to the church only for use. [[11.30 hours]] It was at a time when the public's attitude toward the law on so - called church restitution was persistently negative. He was regularly rejected by four out of five respondents. It is no wonder that the public adopted the bill on taxation of church compensation. At that time it was the initiative of the leadership of the South Bohemia Region, led by the Social Democratic Governor Jiří Zimola. This was fully supported by the head of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia Vojtěch Filip, who declared in June 2016 that the State had not paid compensation to the churches, but provided a gift, and it should be taxed as any other donation. This initiative was also supported by Andrej Babiš, who commented on this: Restitutions were carried out in an incorrect, fraudulent way. The replacement is overpriced by 54 billion, which the state issued extra. And neither can the President of the Party of Direct Democracy, Tomio Okamura, whose membership club also supported taxation. The church, however, is constantly gossiping about the efforts to cement our society, allegedly using generally accepted values. Somehow, she's not succeeding. On the contrary, the greed of church dignitaries has contributed to the fact that the social ditches have deepened many times. And they can deepen even more, as there are still a lot of disgusting disputes in court. Of course, the former ODS coalition, TOP 09 and Public Affairs were very well aware of how thin the ice was going. That is why the law on so-called religious restitution has established state treaties with individual churches. While legislation can be changed, it is more complicated with contracts. So many of our citizens are no longer aware that it is possible to manipulate a huge financial transaction by the current treaty of state representatives with any partner. The publicity of Lukáš Jelínek asked himself: Will the government next try to establish an ideological law similar to that sold to half the country, perhaps the Upper Volta? Will we also hear that we can no longer back down? Yes, that is exactly what happens when politicians have the urge to realize historical justice without the necessary information and thorough analysis, with ideological zeal or even fanaticism. It is no wonder that many of our fellow citizens are talking about alleged legal kretenism in relation to this issue. And that is why I cannot agree with the Senate's position, which quite bluntly rejected our initiative to tax financial compensation to the churches. I will therefore vote again in favour of the House resolution, which responds, at least in part, to the legitimate demands of our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-004-004.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jurečka will respond to your speech in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-004-004.u6	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would like to respond to Mr Grebeníček's speech. I confess that after his speech, which he mostly read to us what he was telling us here at the last meeting, during the hearing, however, repetition is the mother of wisdom - I understand, perhaps today the coalition wants to stretch out time, because it may not have enough votes to revote the Senate proposal. And I must say, as a Christian, it is quite difficult for me to apply "love your neighbor" in practice. However, it is surprising when a communist, whose family has practically the blood of the people against whom the communist regime has applied its brutal totalitarianity - it does not only concern churches, priests, religious sisters, but also tens of thousands of farmers, private peasants, businessmen and others, it concerns my family. These people have never heard an apology from the leaders of the Communist Party or its institutions. But you were here talking about the Senate debate being ideological and not specific. So I guess we've all watched a completely different discussion. I was surprised just as the senators perfectly correctly, virtually across the entire political spectrum, including the senators behind the ČSSD, argued in which all the areas your proposal was unfair, immoral, hypocritical. They pointed out that you have never submitted any study that should really objectively quantify the 54 billion. And you've put up with that tax rate that you're taxing this financial compensation. You've never tried to make an objective and fair assessment of your proposal and its implications. It's just pure politics on your part, and I'm surprised you're stuck here with people you've been persecuting, like Cardinal Tomášek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-004-004.u7	Thank you. Mr Benda will now speak in the debate, Mr Mašek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-004-004.u8	Dear Vice-President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, who are in the mood for coffee, may leave in peace. I'll speak no doubt until the next 12 hours, the next point. I would like to respond to a number of things that have been said here, but I will only react when the O.R. is a little fuller. Now I speak only for history, because I understand that there are relatively few people here, so I will try to introduce you to the brochure that I have given you this week, prepared by a team of economists and lawyers for the Prague Archbishopship, namely Mr Schwarz, Mr Rod and Michal Fanta, which concerns taxation of financial compensation to churches and religious societies. Allowing us to have this on the screen, I will read the whole thing because I feel it is essential that we really recapitulate why the law on financial settlement with churches and religious societies was adopted. Introduction. This publication was established following the amendment of Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious companies, which repeals, inter alia, paragraph 6 of paragraph 15 of the original version of the Act, exempting financial compensation from taxation, fees or other similar cash transactions. The amendment to the Act calls into question the valid agreement on the property settlement of the State with individual churches and religious societies concluded on the basis of Act No. 428/2012 Sb., for several reasons: 1. amends the complex compromise reached between the State and its institutions as mandatory persons, on the one hand, and individual churches and religious societies as entitled persons, on the other hand, to the detriment of entitled persons; 2. it is a renationalisation of the property of churches and religious societies without compensation; 3. This form of nationalisation calls into question one of the essential intentions of Act No. 428/2012 Coll., which is the gradual reduction and subsequent termination of funding of churches and religious societies from the state budget in the form of mandatorial expenses; 4. The questioning of the requirement of legal certainty relativizes one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. Reasonable report by the petitioners of Amendment No. 428/2012 Sb. of 19. 12. 2017 lists as the main reasons for the amendment of the law in particular the fact that the restitution process of the church property differs significantly from the legal restitution legislation that has been implemented so far, in particular the amount of the financial compensation and the method of determining it. Yes, the restitution process of church property differs in essential characteristics. However, the reasoned report ignores the nature and nature of this legislative difference, which translates into the material content of the relationship between mandatory persons represented by the State and authorised persons represented by churches and religious societies. [[11.40 hours]] Income from state-owned property, property transferred to municipalities and legal persons, compensation for the impairment of assets, compensation for living and dead inventory constitute property damage to beneficiaries whose compensation for the achievement of compromise agreements concluded pursuant to Act No. 428/2012 gave up. The claims of this kind were an essential part of the restitution legislation until then, i.e. restitution claims of natural and private legal persons. The restitution process of church property is indeed different. Reality, however, has two sides of the coin to be taken into account when considering taxation or other financial compensation. Law No 428/2012 Sb. Because from the very beginning, he follows two purposes. It is not only about mitigating the consequences of some property and other injustices committed by the totalitarian regime, but also about the settlement of property relations between the state and the churches and religious societies as a prerequisite for the full separation of the financing of churches and religious societies from the state on the basis of the cessation of mandatorial payments to churches and religious companies from the state budget. We move on to part one - The arguments of the petitioners of the amendment of the law. Point 1.1 The main arguments of the explanatory memorandum to the amendment to Act No. 428/2012 Sb. Subscribers of Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies and on the amendment of certain laws, in the attached explanatory memorandum many reasons for the need to amend the original wording of Act No. 248/2012 Sb. No, they don't. The only arguments are only: 1. the difference between the restitution legislation implemented; 2. the amount of the financial compensation, in particular the manner in which it is determined. Furthermore, the explanatory memorandum mentions the fact that the flat-rate annual instalments of 1.97 billion were set at 1.97 billion. CZK 59 billion in total. CZK paid to churches and religious societies for 30 years is annually increased depending on the rate of inflation. If inflation rates rise in the following years according to the forecast and estimate of the Czech National Bank, prices will increase by almost half by the end of 2042. This means a nominal increase in instalments, but not real. The inflation clause serves as a normal instrument to prevent the depreciation of money due to inflation, ensuring only the preservation of the fair value of the contractual funds over a long period of time, which also applies to contracts between the State and individual churches and religious companies under Act No. 428/2012 Sb. Both of the above arguments are analysed and tested in the following chapters by standard economic methods. Additional arguments in favour of taxation of compensation for church restitution can be found in the media, most often in interviews with representatives and supporters of the amendment of Act No. 428/2012. These include the taxation of insurance benefits and the taxation of the services of members of the security forces. No other arguments with the ambition to provoke serious controversy have yet been made. Point 1.2 False argument on the analogy of taxation of other refunds (a) Taxation of insurance claims Taxation of insurance benefits is defined by the law of the Czech National Council No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax. In particular, Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 does not apply. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) it states that the performance of property insurance is subject to taxation only if it has the character of compensation for loss of income. Such a situation may occur, for example, by bringing an entrepreneurial legal or natural person to an injury for certain reasons to property which he urgently needs for the purpose of his main occupation: a car, an office, etc. Insurance for such injury shall be subject to taxation. In this case, however, the taxation of insurance benefits has a rational reason as it replaces the tax on income lost. However, the financial compensation paid to churches and religious societies is a substitute for property which could not be returned to the entitled persons for a number of reasons, in particular mentioned in Chapter 3. This is a financial compensation for unissued real estate, not compensation for loss of income. Any considerations on the analogy of these two cases are incorrect. Misplaced because it is a different nature of compensation. Compensation to churches and religious societies is not a substitute for lost profits from building and land business, but for not returning buildings and land itself. B. Taxation of members of the Security Corps The members of the Security Council were subject to tax from 2011 to 1. 1. 2017. In particular, the government of that time approached this measure in order to mitigate the negative effects of the economic recession on the revenue side of the state budget. At the initiative of Members of Social Democracy and Communists, i.e. Members of the same political parties who submitted a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Church Restitutions, Sobotkův's Government adopted an amendment to Act No. 586/1992 Coll., thus abolishing the taxation of the pension allowance. The primary reason for this amendment was to try to stabilise the security forces by increasing the social security of their members. The use of this case by those who have submitted a proposal and subsequently voted in favour of the abolition of the taxation of members of the security forces is misleading, confusing and argumentative. This is the case for two reasons. For one thing, the tax exemption of members of the security forces was abolished more than two years ago and it is also income tax, which is from both economic and tax terms different from unreturned buildings and land. Chapter Two - Characteristics of realized restitution practice Point 2.1. Restitution of property of natural and private legal persons Restitutions other than church property concerned mainly the following laws: Law No 403/1990 Coll., on the mitigation of the consequences of some property injustices. The first of the general restitution laws, in which it was mainly the return of real estate confiscated under certain communist laws. This law either returned the property of the state in the condition in which it was, and if it was in a particularly bad condition, the restitution was also due to the restitution. The cash compensation was paid if the property no longer existed or could not be issued for various reasons. The issue of movable furniture was subject to the presentation of proof that it was part of the property at the time of its seizure. Law No 87/1991 Coll., on Out-of-court Rehabilitation. In principle, this is the same procedure as the previous law, only applies to a larger group of confiscation measures. As in the previous case, it is either a matter of extradition or a cash compensation. At first, the issue was limited only to persons resident in the Czech and Slovak Federal Republics. This provision was subsequently repealed by the Constitutional Court. - I'm just pointing out for myself that I filed the constitutional complaint. Law No 229/1991 Coll., on the modification of property relations to land and other agricultural property. This law concerned, inter alia, the return of agricultural land, forests and other agricultural properties on the basis of similar principles as those mentioned above. The possibility was introduced for the restitution of other movable and immovable property for irreplaceable assets. Part of the law was also a blocking clause forbidding the sale of property previously owned by the Church. [[11.50 hours]] Point 2.2. Restitution of church property One of the fundamental differences between church and ordinary restitutions, which necessarily complicated the process, was the fact that the church restitutions were the opposite of the property restitutions of natural and private legal persons. The State required an accurate list of the property items that churches and religious societies wanted to return, even before the adoption of the law. Efforts to correct injustices were associated with the implementation of the requirement for financial, virtually. Budgetary separation of churches from the state. Another problem was the fact that restitution under already approved laws would lead to significantly higher compensation for the benefit of churches and religious societies in the hundreds of billions of crowns. Such restitution of churches and religious societies was politically impenetrable. Law No 298/1990 Coll., on the adaptation of some property relations of religious orders and congregations and the Archbishopship of Olomouc. It was called. It's an enumeration law. The aim of the law was to restore the activities of religious orders. This regulation was returned to the listed church institutions by law-defined real estate and movable property. The transfer was mainly about monasteries and religious houses. An attempt at a second listing in 1994. The Membership proposal, which was intended to return the specifically defined properties to their owners, was not accepted, inter alia, because the ownership of some assets had already passed on to cities or municipalities. Government Resolution No 498/1996 and Government Order No 211/1997. Attempts to return some assets again in the form of an enumeration; the government adopted a second resolution, but later asked for another one, and in 1999, this attempt ended in failure. Among other things, there were arguments about the fact that the churches did not own the property. A study by Milan Kindl and Vojtěch Mikule from the Faculty of Law of Charles University. The launch of a systematic discussion on the restitution of church property between 1998 and 2002. It was a period of Zemanův's government, and this matter fell within the competence of the then Minister of Culture, Pavel Dostál, a social democrat who appointed a committee for the settlement of relations between churches and the state. The value of the assets to be settled with churches and religious societies was set at CZK 100 billion in 2000. By Valorisation, this sum was adopted by the end of 2012, in which Law No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies, rose to CZK 135.32 billion in 2012 prices. This amount was 1.32 billion higher than the total amount of statutory church compensation in 2012. This means that it is not true that Nečasův' government has entered into a much more disadvantageous treaty for the state to settle with churches and religious societies than Zemanův's government, which initiated systematic negotiations on the restitution of church property, which was successfully completed 14 years later by the adoption of Act No. 428/2012 Sb. Act on settlement between the State and the churches and religious societies - first attempt - 2008. The nature of the proposal was the same as in the current applicable Act No. 428/2012, i.e. Abandoning the enumeration principle. With the fall of Topolánkův's government in 2009, the legislative process returned to the beginning. Part 2.3 K of the methodology for determining the value of church property The very methodology of determining the value of church property was the result of complex and many years of work and the search for consensus between the then church and government commission, which prepared the project of restitution of church property in the framework of the settlement of relations between the state and the churches. Data for calculation were mainly provided by state institutions, such as the Institute of Agricultural Economy and Information, the Ministry of Agriculture of the Czech Republic and others. The correctness of the methodology was verified by the renowned international consultancy Ernst and Young, which, at the request of the Ministry of Culture, carried out an analysis and control of the method of calculation. The conclusion of Ernst and Young's control report summarizes the following citation: "The static algorithm using average prices is rational due to the imperfections of both underlying and market data under limited time for asset valuation processing. " Let me read the footnote here, because I think it's important. Ernst and Young's control report also contains an estimate of the amount of work necessary to calculate the value of the church property by an alternative method of valuation. The amount of work - a total of 110 000 land items and 16 250 buildings - was estimated at a total of 120 000 man-hours. This means that one person would work at a standard 40-hour working week for approximately 60 years to appreciate all church property by the half-life method. It would take about three years for 20 workers to appreciate it. The price for this type of work was estimated at over 30 million crowns in 2011 prices. The amounts laid down are part of the legislation in force and any consideration of their questioning without giving strong arguments are merely political declarations of purpose. Point 2.4. Distribution of financial compensation between churches and religious societies The financial compensation of CZK 59 billion was to be divided between 17 church institutions. The Roman Catholic Church, which owned historically the largest volume of confiscated properties, was to account for up to 99 percent of the approved financial compensation. However, an important aspect of the restitution of church property is also a gradual reduction in the dependence of churches and religious societies on state budget spending until their full cessation. The Roman Catholic Church, out of solidarity with other churches and religious societies, renounced 20 percent of the financial compensation it was entitled to for the benefit of other churches and religious societies in order to fulfil this purpose of the law. - I refer here to Table 1. - Without this generous gesture, it would not be possible to withdraw the State's responsibility for financing 16 churches and religious societies without the Roman Catholic Church and to secure their separation from the spending party to the state budget until 2029 and their subsequent full economic independence. By this the Roman Catholic Church took over part of the state's financial burden of CZK 11.8 billion. These funds would have to be paid out by the Czech Republic to get rid of its legal responsibility for funding 16 churches and religious societies. The Czech Republic thus created a future net budget savings of CZK 11.8 billion in 2012 prices. I will not now read the whole table of how it was divided, but I consider it necessary to say one more of my thesis, because it is repeatedly said in various discussions that these compensations for property that the state once stole from churches and religious societies are also received by churches that did not exist in 1948, which were created after 1989, such as the Adventist Church or some others. This is precisely because it was not only about replacing the stolen church property, but also about achieving a situation where the funding of churches and religious societies from the state budget will be separated from the state budget when this funding will be terminated. That is why the Catholic Church, as I have quoted here, distributed 20 per cent to other churches and religious societies to have a chance to function even in a situation where the state stops funding from the state budget and continues to be the wages of the clergy purely in the direction of churches and religious societies as self-contained legal entities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-004-004.u9	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you now. It is 12 o'clock, we must interrupt the discussion of this point, so I am stating for the record that we have interrupted this point in the middle of Mr Marek Benda's speech, and in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, we will be focusing on the fixed item. I am merely saying that Mr Václav Klaus apologizes for today's meeting from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work. I will now hand over the proceedings of the meeting and open the discussion of the next item.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-15-ps2017-027-08-004-004.u10	Have a nice noon. Now let's start with a fixed point.
