ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-019-021.u1	21. Government draft law on the territorial administrative breakdown of the State and on the amendment of related laws (State territorial administrative breakdown law) /German press 395/ - first reading I will read the apologies: Mr Jáč apologizes from 16 o'clock to the end of the meeting, and Mr Radim Fiala apologises from 16 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons. On behalf of the Government, Jan Hamáček will present and present the proposal by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-019-021.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, allow me to present, in the first reading, the Government's draft law on the territorial administrative breakdown of the State. The main purpose of this law is to update the legislation on the structure of the State's territorial administrative breakdown and to replace the existing, obsolete State breakdown Act of 1960. The basis of the proposed adjustment is the breakdown of the territory of the Czech Republic in the region, the capital city of Prague within the meaning of the Constitutional Act on the creation of higher local authorities. In this context, it is proposed to repeal the so-called Old country. These large regions, which are seven and which differ from 13 self-governing regions, are currently no longer used for the performance of public administration. According to the new legislation, districts of individual regions will be divided into administrative districts of municipalities with extended scope. The administrative districts of the municipalities with extended scope will then be defined by a list of municipalities and military retreats. The definition of districts is carried out in a new legal arrangement by deriving from the administrative districts of municipalities with extended scope. For the capital city of Prague, a special division is maintained on 10 districts at district level. [[14.40 hours]] The proposed solution was consulted with the municipalities concerned and with the competent authorities of the state administration. The new legislation will not affect, for example, the courts and prosecutors, which have their districts defined by a special law. Finally, I would like to add information on the solution to the specific situation in the Turnov region. The Ministry of the Interior has dealt intensively with all the entities concerned for this purpose, namely on 1 March 2019 directly in Turnov, where agreement was reached on the modification of the text of the draft law. This regulation should allow the current situation in Turnov region to be maintained in the form of a functioning administrative district of the municipality with extended scope and at the same time not to change the jurisdiction of individual municipalities into districts. It was also agreed in order to symbolically take account of the importance of Turnova to rename the existing Semily district to Semily - Turnov. The amendment to make the necessary changes is already ready. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-019-021.u3	Please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Martin Baxa. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-019-021.u4	Dear Vice-President, Minister, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to my report on the Government's draft law on the territorial administrative breakdown of the State. The subject of negotiations at first reading is the House Press No. 395, i.e. the Government's draft law on the territorial administrative breakdown of the State and the amendment of related laws. The Government submitted a draft law to the House on 8 February and that week the proposal was sent to the Members as the aforementioned House press 395. On 21 February 2019, the Organizing Committee recommended its resolution No. 159 and proposed a Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The substance of the proposed law consists in the introduction of a single general administrative breakdown based on a combined model of public administration performance. The proposed solution to the State's territorial administrative breakdown consists in replacing the State's territorial breakdown Act No. 36/1960 a new legislation on the territorial administrative breakdown of the State. The legal arrangement will therefore include the regional administrative units, the administrative districts of the municipalities with extended scope and the districts with which these districts are composed. The aim of this regulation is, in particular, to clarify the state administration in particular with regard to the elimination of the two mutually incompatible State breakdowns and to ensure the legislative regulation of the State breakdown best suited to the current conditions and links to the territory. In particular, the regional administrative breakdown of the State will meet the following parameters: The territory of the Czech Republic is divided into administrative districts of the regions and the administrative district of the capital city of Prague. It is further divided into administrative districts of municipalities with extended scope and derived from them by districts. The administrative districts of municipalities with extended scope are defined by the list of territorial municipalities by the amended implementing decree in the law which makes them up. The capital city of Prague has a special breakdown of 10 districts at district level and all levels of the mentioned breakdown of the territory of the Czech Republic are mutual compositional. According to this Act on the territorial breakdown of the State of 1960, the proposed legislation is abolished and the districts are maintained. The main reason why the districts are preserved is that they minimize interventions in the real functioning of the state administration, and even in the current breakdown they are important because they are applied in determining the competence of the local authorities of the state administration, exceptionally even in the form of legal basis of competence, which is the example of the Czech Social Security Administration. With regard to the effects of this draft law, it effectively constitutes a minimum burden for public authorities, the new composition of the territorial administrative structure is being created in the case of 33 municipalities. In particular, the direction of the commute to certain administrative centres is changed and the simplification of territorial relations makes it easier to coordinate in the performance of the state administration itself. I also looked at the commentary on this bill as well as the final report in the evaluation of the effects of RIA regulation, where it is clear that the only potentially problematic point that is now appearing is the administrative district of the municipality with the extended scope of Trutnov, which was already mentioned by the Minister. [[Correction from the diaper: Turnov.]] Sorry, Turnov, where the situation will be dealt with in some way. The Ministry of the Interior preferred some option, but it seems that a compromise will be found, which will address especially the situation of the Semily district and the position of the municipality with the extended scope of Turnov. Let me just remind you that there were two essential comments in the commentary procedure. The association of towns and municipalities of the Czech Republic and the Association of Local Authorities requested the creation of a separate district Turnov in the framework of the commentary procedure, but the draft law no longer works with this option directly, but on the basis of the agreement referred to by the Minister, it is assumed that there will be a solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-019-021.u5	I am now opening up a general debate which I do not have an application for, however - a moment, I have here, Mr Kopřiva and Mr Pražák on factual issues, but it is only in fact in the debate, so I do not know if you wanted to speak in the debate, but really on factual terms - so Mr Kopřiva is not interested, yet Mr Pražák, but factually - there is nothing yet to respond to. So, Mr. Holomčík. [[That's right, Martínek.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-019-021.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to add briefly to the Minister - the plaintiff and others on the issue of ORP Turnov. In fact, there has been a hearing in Turnov, and I have also uploaded an amendment to the system prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, on which we agreed with other Members for the Liberec Region, which is currently being recorded in the system and which we will also submit to the Guarantee Committee in order to ideally consensually approve it, ideally unanimously, in order to allow the Ministry of the Interior to accept an exception which will allow at least the existing situation in the ORP Turnov to be maintained so that no citizens are affected and not harmed by where they would have to commute and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-019-021.u7	I'm sorry, that was Mr. Martínek. Otherwise, Mr Pražák is now applying to the facts. No, okay. So I don't have any more logged in here. I do. Mr Dominik Feri is still reporting for the general debate. In general? Really? In general. Come on, you're the only one anyway. I don't have another application. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-019-021.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government present, I only have a simple question for the Minister, who relates to the exercise of office in the administrative district outside the ORP. It concerns Černošice, Brandýs, Šlapanice and Nýřany, and now in this novel - you can answer me after, or some reporter of yours, but it is basically that the amendment actually cancels the obligation to establish an office in Prague, Brno and Pilsen, and whether by dispersing it, whether you have already dealt with them and they will simply maintain the authorities or not. And if you've done a revision, if you've actually consulted other municipalities with regard to the same reasons why this option is in place, where the question of, for example, the traffic continuity or something like that might be relevant. I'd be happy to answer, if necessary, in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-019-021.u9	Thank you. I will now look around the hall, I do not see interest in speaking in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. Are you interested in the final words? Mr. Secretary? Ambassador Baxa? Yes, the Minister is interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-019-021.u10	I have already told the honourable Member when he left to make it sound on the microphone - that is a technical question, so I will certainly deliver the answer in writing. We have relatively enough time because we're at first reading, so I'm sure before we go to second reading, or when it goes to committees, you'll get the answer from us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2019-03-13-ps2017-027-06-019-021.u11	Is Mr. Baxa interested in the final word? You're not interested. So we will proceed to the fact that we will now deal with the draft law on the commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. I ask - does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see the proposition. So we will proceed to the vote. I'm gonna sing. We will vote on whether you agree that the Organisational Committee has proposed ordering the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 273, 174 Members voted in favour of 131, versus 0. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. [[14.50 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask if anyone has a proposal on the commandment of the next committee. I don't see a proposal, so I'm done discussing this press at this point. We will now proceed to the next point. This is
