ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u1	Mr. President. On November 7, 2016, according to the results of total election election elections, which took place on 29 October. Before the assembly, a number of preparatory work had been made, leading representatives from all members of the council at the General Assembly. There were three preparatory meetings, and there they were reviewing the terms given to the election and due to the opinion and conflict that arose in the Supreme Governments of individual elections. A letter letter committee has discussed two issues, one of which are a number of conflict cases, and will be discussed with a draft board that has not been agreed on as to their payment within the top management board. However, a draft board discussed a number of lawsuits that have been received since the election. In some detail, I'm not going to trace it to the pages of this magazine. I just want to assume that there has been no increase in the agreements that come to the treatment of the Advisory Committee from elections to elections, and are several aspects of the marketing committee that consider it a reason to call attention to them in the committee's opinion that they can be considered for the review of a campaign that has lasted for some time. We'll discuss it in the opinion that those who try to reevaluate the campaign laws can identify the issues that have been put to the test in this regard. In order to make a long story short, it is proper to assume that no matter how the conclusion of the stock board had been in connection with the evaluation of these votes, it would have had no impact on the outcome of the election, but when it comes to judging the outcome of a comparable opinion that exists, it does matter. Other than that, I refer to what is presented in the committee's opinion, and I'm not going to have any more words on that subject. The campaign tickets were quite a few. In one case a comment was made on the implementation of elections by an official and was assessed by the Committee in the case that it did not protect a point that could lead to an invalidation of the election. If there's any comment on the implementation of elections on the individual persons, it's not a point that the draft board is taking sides but, depending on the incidents, in case of serious cases, may lead to police investigation and such factors, although there is no basis for it in this case. The other issues involved in the election are primarily matters not to be considered; nor do those under a letter board. A comment is made in the distribution of Parliaments according to the rules of election law and constitution, a two - fold comment, on the matter of discrepancies, and on the other hand, that there is a nominal 5% rule about the minimum or minimum threshold for the terms of political organizations for Congress. These comments depend on the regulations of election law and constitution and on the election systems we live in. It is not the role of a draft board to evaluate this and the conclusion of the Commission was on the way to allow for a change in terms of these matters to be made in order to change the terms of the Constitutions and elections, but it is not the way to address the outcome of the election on this basis. At the end of our committee views, we put in some text where we draw together the opinion issues we have been discussing. We will discuss both the issues raised and draw attention to the review of the election laws. We also note the need for legal guidance and information when going to the election, and we present them with comments to the State Ministry in the direction of the project. The results of the Advisory Committee were on the way to agree on the list of names contained in the Committee of the Committee. Under the heading "Apprehensible " literature, as well as" here, " w. The members of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Björn Leví's Gunnarsson, Björt Ólafsdóttir, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gónsótir, and Tothol Björn Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u2	We thank the chairman of the Advertising Committee and Advertising Committee for its work. No other calls have been made, and talk has ended with the Commission's opinions and suggestions, and they are agreed on. It is suggested by the Commission that the vote is considered valid, as well as the election of members of Congress, and that the ballots of all council members, as well as the ballots of just as many of the vices that the National Committee issued at the end of the General election on October 29th of October, are approved. I'll bring up the entire ballot stock in one piece, i.e. Advertising letters of the nobility board and its vice presidents, which appear in the opinion of the Advisory Committee, will be considered approved without a vote if there is no objection.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u3	Borist has a letter from 1st. Smoke. So, Ólöfu Nordal, that she can't stand for Congress in the near future. So today, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Independence Party lists the district, Sverrisdóttir Sveririsddótttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u4	According to point two. Congress must be made up of members of the general council who are now taking their first position at the Council for the first time signing a vow of honor to the Constitution. Of the 32 newly elected generals, ten have previously taken their place at the Council, one senator is absent, signing his vow later, so a 21 new senator will sign his vows at this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u5	Qualifications Hildur the Sverrisdóttir 1st. Smoke. This has already been investigated and agreed, but it has not taken place before in the General Assembly, and therefore it is to sign the commitment to the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u6	They're what they were. All council members who are now taking their first place in the Council have signed their pledge to the Constitution, and I would like to welcome all of them to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u7	Mr. President. Before the election begins at this meeting, I'd like to announce to the Congress that at the meeting of the heads of the politicians represented at the General Assembly, and yesterday there was an agreement to treat matters. In accordance with this agreement, the election will be elected to the Commission and to two members of the Parliament, the budget and the Economic and Business Committee, and the other committee elections will be suspended for a while, as well as that order being revised at the time of the formation of a new body of new ones here at the General Assembly, along with the formation of a new government. This is also consistent with Article 6. Act of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u8	The election is being elected by the Generals according to Article 1. Section 3. Parliamentary affairs are reserved only for the appointed ones. I've received one commission on Steingrímur J. Sigfússon III, a member of the Northeast standard. Are there any more appointments? Other nominees have not been received, and then Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is elected alone. Since there is only one vote, the President's intention is to make the vote carried out by the vote system. If you do not make comments in such a way as to vote, that is how you will do it. The system is set to match a secret vote. The tablets on the walls will show only who have taken their votes but not how they vote. The same applies to your computer's storage memory. Those who vote for Steinrim J. Sigfússon press the yes button, but those who return will want to press the blank button marked "Do Not Consumate votes." A yellow light will appear at the middle button when a vote has been paid, no matter which button is pressed, and a yellow light will also appear on the board. [August was for Presidential elections. Syllables fell so that Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, 3th. That's the north side. , received 60 votes, 1 senator did not vote, and 2 were absent.]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u9	Hv. All council members. I want to thank you for the confidence you have shown me, to vote for me, for your Age President, to the office of the General President. I will do my best to maintain that trust and hope that I will find a number of congregational experiences helpful in that regard. A general body now operates under unorthodox conditions, as we all know. There is still government negotiations or cleaning. Therefore, there is no greater part, and no less part is required to appoint here at the council. Under these circumstances, the whole body of the council, the entire council, is unusually explained. At the same time, it is clear that a spirit of cooperation and cooperation are even more important than usual. The president will seek to contribute with close cooperation to the heads of Parliaments and the presidents of political parties as well as to the Commission that will be elected below. As always, we rely on the capable and qualified staff of the Generals that we are so fortunate to have in order. With those words, I reiterate my gratitude for the trust I have been shown, and I expect a fine cooperation with the entire vital work that we are about to face in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u10	Starting the election for six vice presidents. I have received a list of the names: Egilsdóttir Eglólsdóttir, Birgir the Year's Ármannsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, Elínardóttir Sólólólólnardótir, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdotóttir. In agreement with the council members, Nichole Leigh Mosty and the Brjánsson will be on behalf of their members. Since there are no more tribunals than votes, I shall declare the term to be the vice Þórunn of the Kamikaze of Egilsdóttir, the second vice president of Birgir Ármannsson, the third vice president of Jón Þór Ólafsson, the fourth vice Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttir, the 5th vice president of the Jóna Sólveig Elínardóttir, and the 6th vice president of Lilja Magnúsdóttir Rafney. I congratulate the vice presidents on the ideal and well - being of the job and expect them to cooperate fully with the vice presidents on the conference board and on the rest of the committee's work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u11	The following reports have been received on the heads of Congress groups: Þinggar Pirata: Birgitta Jónsdóttir; Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir; and Einar Brynjólfsson, secretary. The Parliament of the Independence Party: The Guðlager of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, Chairman Bruður Níelsson's son, vice president and Slaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigrnbjörn's daughter. Group of United States Group: Guðjón Oddný S. Brjánsson and Vice - G. Group Left Press: Chairman Svandís Svavarsdóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and Deputy Director Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Group of Birts Future: Björt Ólafsdóttir; Chairman of the United States Group member: Chairman Egilsdóttir Engels' daughter, Director Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, vice president and secretary, Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson Gunuga's son. Parliamentary Group: Hanna of Katrín Friðriksson, Vice President Jón Steindór Valdimarsson and Pawel Bartoszek
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u12	Between this time, it is a meeting between parties that only the budget and the Economic and Business Committees will be elected but the elected members of the Second Committees and the International Committees will be suspended. If you don't object to it, you'll have to look at it approved without a vote. It's not, and it's approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u13	President wants to make sure you're on board. Councilmen agree on the Code of Morality for the Generals approved at the General Assembly of March 16 of the past. The rules are in effect at the Senate sentence today. Right away. Congress officials have studied the rules and are asked to present a signed declaration at the Parliamentary Conference Office that they have studied the code of ethics.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u14	A variant must be searched from 62. g. Congress that at the beginning of each assembly the prime minister is giving a policy discourse on behalf of the government. The variants are looked for a resolution under the present circumstances and will be considered approved if no one speaks out. It's not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06-1.u15	They need to look for variations from the council, i.e. final paragraph 3. Congress, so that the seat of the council members can be considered separately and that they are next to the introduction in the hall, such as is customary and for convenience, and that they take their seats to one another. Similarly, if no one speaks of them, they will be accepted. The members of the council gathered around this meeting with the president this morning and are their seats: Birgitta Jónsdóttir, the Svavarsdóttir of 7th Hanna Katrín Friðriksson 8, Björt Ólafsdóttir 13, Svandís Svavarsdót 22, Egilsdóttir Egilsdnardótttsdjóttttir 23, Harðardóttir G. Saððurdrúður stótir 44, and Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, stóðsson of 45.
