ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u1	The President has received a letter on the revocation of an oral query. Ásmundur Einar Daðason again calls for an oral response. 928, trial 568, on animal tunnels.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u2	Remuneration is required at this meeting at a later time due to the change in proposals received through a livestock bill. As the president has previously proclaimed, that vote will be held at a time. 14 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u3	Mr. President. Last week there was a discussion on the top bill. Education and cultural minister on student loans and study support. It was a good and perfunctory debate that lasted for a whole day, and various viewpoints were developed, especially that in such a large and extensive language, the plan to make a basic change in education needs time. It takes time to consider the consequences of such changes. That thought came to me again this morning when I studied the title of the University of Iceland, which has now sent a sledgehammer. The General Information and Education Committee on the matter and had the National Institute for Economics for the University of Iceland to take a specific look at it. That's where even the two of them come from. until a certain group of student loans are to gain significant weight if this new system is to be taken up. For example, the National Institute of Economics, U.S.A., concluded that a single parent has five years of study, e.g. to teach, to teach, to teach school, to teach high school, to teach elementary school, to study where we really need people, to pay more of the loans in a new system. Really, no matter what they study, they are told. So this is not just the teacher's school, but I just draw attention to the fact that it's from this length. The review also points out that when the matter was discussed, it was based on the average wage, but most of us do not. It is noted that median revenues are very different from average wages. This well-designed review of the University of Iceland and the Economic Institutes suggests that there will be a number of aspects of the bill, especially whether it will influence the student's choice of study, that students will rather choose to study from the level of income, which, of course, is an enormously fundamental change, and that will affect equality to study, which would conflict with the official objective of the bill. So I can only warn you, Mr. President, when I read these serious comments, if it's intended to provide the same basic education system in the council at some dog-light. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We can't allow that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u4	A respectable president. Iceland's countries seem to be the world's happiest demands. In the early 1990s, they have, at least based on reports, invite the rulers, both those involved with the possession of Arion Bank and the Lands Bank, the skystained requests, if their recovery reaches the goals they have set. It must be a lot of thought for all of us. But we must also pay particular attention to this kind of payment when the health system, pensioners, and large community groups are taking a hundred and even hundreds of millions in addition. It's ringing all the alarm alarms. If you want to take on the bank bonus, you can. The law can be used to limit proposals in broken areas and companies linked to them. The law can be used to limit human rights for filing payment from the owners of the country's key financial institutions. It is possible to apply, as the British did at the time, an enormous amount of taxation on such payments would not want to go on the legal route so that their petitioning will become more or less public funds to meet the welfare community, health - care expenses, the ideals of the elderly, the poor, the poor children, and others who need to be paid. Will is, a respectable president, everything necessary. It's not enough that our ministers are out of control. Here, before the council clears from this terms period, it will take an even greater amount of money, and all the nonsense will repeat itself over and over again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u5	V.E.G. President. The collapse of what took place in 2008 left virtually no Icelander. People lost their homes, their businesses, their jobs, those who did not lose their jobs for several years. But there was one group who did not lose in the collapse but made a fortune. There were foreign demands. The government of that time in 2010-2013 delivered these Icelandic banks with a single pen dash, and this is expected to be the largest donor gain in Iceland's history combined. [[Up front.]] It may be that some of these have now been recovered through the stability production done under the lead of candidates. However, in order to maximise their profits by the above - mentioned gifts, it is a matter of time before the worn - out equipment has been hired. We don't know what these assets are. Are these companies torn off people? Are These Homes? We don't know what these assets are. But the creditors are expected to collect this money, and for that work, they are required to get offers, which are, like, one year's choice of small companies. I'd like to mention what you can do to wind this off. I just don't want them to have four or five hands. I would suggest that we be quick to make a law that would put taxes on such requests so that we could make sure that these fragments that are coming to Iceland would go, not to four or five persons, but to the nation of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u6	Mr. President. I'd like to be happy to know that the University of Akureyri has received training and research in police school. Sadly, the conference has been rather negative to the decision I am very sorry about. Finally, a conclusion has been made in a case that, unfortunately, has gone far too long in the system and is actually a poem of how late it was completed. We speak here at good times about the possibility of new jobs, i.e. new opportunities, to the rest of the scattered settlements. It's one of them. Whether we talk about psychology, crime, or law, the University of Akureyri offers all the support we need in such studies and has long experience in pursuing university education. It is important to continue to conduct practical studies, such as priorities, firearm training, or the emotional control of police at the scene of the capital, in the dean of education and development, which is new and operates at the governor's office. I've spoken to a lot of police officers, including... The officers of the police club who expressed interest in the study at the University of Akureyri, including the U.S.A. Because it has been a powerful telecommunication, which the school has boasted for many years and more likely that those who work in the scattered regions will be more likely to attend the study at the university there, but they would do if it was in the big capital and less likely they would have to pick up from the distance. The school is small and the feelings of the officers I have discussed have been in the way that students would be better paid at smaller than larger schools. The study is for two years. It can be completed by BA studies in police studies and also educational sites are expected with emphasis on studies in police studies that have, unfortunately, been too soon. There are exciting times ahead, and it is important to build up knowledge on the land. And in this context, it is very good to consider re-educing professional police officers who have been on a limited scale.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u7	V.E.G. President. Last week we talked a few things. Senators are knocking at the holding company. Today, however, we learn that the four employees of the Old Land Bank can each receive a total of hundreds of millions in petitiones over the years to come. Reading this expression is most thought - provoking: Much more is involved. This is not a good report of the work done in these holding partners. This news or rather these decisions in the midst of the controversial tenures do not help us rebuild trust in our society. These decisions, on the other hand, lead to dissatisfaction and division in our new society. That can't be what we want. I'm disappointed in seeing this kind of work. I'd like to ask for those in charge of the state-of-the-art partnership to revise their decision on proposals. To the holding body of Preliminaries to cancel their decision to agree to a meeting of the society today. I'd like to ask the presidents of the National Bank's ownership of the Bank to reconsider their decision to accept the petition in the spring months. I pray to these associates to help us rebuild trust, to show community responsibility, and to build a better community. If not, a respectable president, we need to think about other ways. There must be a further taxation of these companies through the bank tax, but the current government taxed them with a bank tax. These reports show that there seems to be even more taxation room. It would be both responsible and good to go to them. Disturbances due to this request procedure can include: Based on the fact that after a collapse, the new banks came to their homes' debt with a huge discount. The banks have worked hard to collect them fully. At the same time, the banks have gained about 500 billion from collapse, high interest costs, and services that have been paid for have rarely or never been higher. Hv. City of Congress. So let's gather together and figure out how to deal with these important issues. [[The president calls.]] According to the news and the discussion, there seems to be a parapolitic agreement to resolve a solution. Work together to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u8	Mr. President. Iceland is a rich country and should be the best person in the world to live, grow old and have a good life night. Yet, it is not possible to say that this is the situation of all the older ones in this country. Too many older citizens live only on the minimum wage today is 212 you. K. per month. Is there anyone here in this room who can live on over 200 yards. K. a month? No, I don't think so. Clearly, older citizens are of both sexes, and poverty is just as bad whether it is a man or a woman. However, it is difficult to ignore that gender differences in pay will not only affect women's salary when they are young, the pay factor affects all the rights they earn in a job market. Women get lower holiday pay than men and less pensions. Thus, women are more likely to live in poverty in their later years. Many women work low - paying jobs, and others have been assigned part - time to care for children and homes, elderly parents, or other relatives. In addition, we clearly see evidence that women are throwing their heads into the glass roof and that they do not get the same opportunities as those at work and men. It also affects the pay and the pension. If we can justly divide the national cake, we can easily improve the interests of older citizens. We can afford to increase minimum pay reimbursement and from time to time with other country's pay raises. It is dignity toward a people who also provide a decent reward for the elderly and the poor. The union is going to raise their pension, put on flexible retirements, and simplify people to understand and defend their rights so that they can live with dignity in their lives. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u9	A respectable president. The news from financial proposals is pathetic, but unfortunately they are predictable. Four managers of LBI, a holding society with regard to the property of the old Land Bank, may obtain a total of hundreds of millions. In their proposals, each one in the coming years if they can increase the value of the old bank's assets. The former head of the European Union enterprise in the fishing business gets 23 million. K. a fee per year, for being on the lBI board, except for the expected suitaries. The pay means that it operates for the administration to a maximum of 40 days a year. That means he gets 575 points. K. For every day he works for the board, more than half a million a day. DV says that the total supply of money to these four top members of the organization, in the future, may be worth billions. If this is not enough, D.V. last week explained that some 20 employees of the Presidency Committee, who took the role of branch Congress, can secure 1,500 million. K. in petition pay if they succeed in maximizing the value of the unregistered assets. It should be noted that the largest unexploited holding of Copenhagen is an 87% share at Arion Bank, a commercial bank that works largely in the Icelandic market, and was restored by the Icelandic State by Icelandic heart accounts. We have new characters and players on the stage. The purpose is to make as simple as possible. This must be stopped by any means necessary. A former editor of the Morning newspaper commented a few years ago that it was a disgusting society, ◯... It's all disgusting. There's no prince's finger, there's no ideal, there's nothing. It's just opportunism, power fight. He said. We have been in the right direction since the fall of those words, but there is clearly much to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u10	Mr. President. I requested to have a representative of the superintendent of the Ministries and the representative of the European Union of Sheep's Sheep at a meeting on a professional committee this morning to discuss the position of making a fortune to the sheep's farmers a great decrease these days. It's a lot of concern, and you're asking yourself now when we're discussing the livestock contract today if the deal plans there are broken. It allows for more than high prices to rise by 7.5% in the years to come. It was also noted that many slaughterhouses are in a very difficult situation and are uncertain whether even the slaughter houses in the country today will survive even the next year. We know that reduced wages, such as those listed in farms, seem to land primarily in the original industry in the end, where big shops, such as Hagar, exploit billions of dollars and sell products through their products and apparently make a lot of money. Is it normal that there is no swing balance there, and this class has to be constantly taking on pay down and living in this uncertain environment? I think we need to see if there are any ways in which this article can be met, such as meeting it when it comes to the transport balance fund, which is operating on the export branches that are far from markets. The situation is that if more slaughterhouses e.g. Who, then, is to go to the close of the air to get their slaughtering funds to the remote areas that are most distant from slaughterhouses? [[The president calls.]] This is an extremely serious situation in many sheepfolds today, and we need to take a good look at them at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u11	A respectable president. Many people do not have to comment on how the Senate has been doing in the past few weeks. There has been a state crisis at the General Assembly during the past few days and weeks. You don't know where you're really going. Here we have one case after another, one that comes in or may fall asleep on a committee. I hereby advertise by who they are, this important priority of the government. Is it, for example, the LIN bill that now runs on a committee and can be criticized indefinitely? It is an extremely harsh procedure for making a bill of interest stakeholders create a law about themselves, where there was no consultation, at university, at society, and then just looked to them and invited them for a polite visit. Or is it a livestock contract that will be discussed later today? Is it the interest bill and insurance bill, which is exactly nothing? When can we settle this? When will this be over? There's nothing going on here. We're just standing here trying to pretend to celebrate some council. I think it's time to break up a council. It's getting pretty sad, kind of sad. There's no room to attend a committee meeting. It's really crazy to keep doing this. I'll bet you we're gonna get a final list of the cases the government is going to finish and stop all this shit. Everyone has something better to do than pretend to be doing some job that no one is interested in anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u12	President. In the past year, I have somehow reminded me of the leading cause of the collapse in 2008. There are now a lot of things happening that were allowed to happen before a crash. At least we look at the beginning of some kind of real estate vaccination, although the representatives of the Federal Bank do not consider it to be the case. It is in this economy that they are like a weather system, and it is very difficult to predict exactly how these things develop. There may be an incident that puts everything upside down in Iceland, such as. A volcanic eruption, an increase in oil prices, if oil prices rise in the world, raises the loans of all those who have insured loans. As members of Congress, I want us to think only about what we can do to prevent further deterioration from happening. There's a gold rush now, we know it. The madness around the tourist stream reminds me of my childhood when I was living in the village, and the smell of money on the village, since often a good fish was placed in a furnace where all the fish that came ashore could not be won. You may feel a little bit sad that all these tourists who have a lot to give into our society, we have a more generous life now because of the growing stream of tourists, that we don't use it for the future but we build one after another. We don't make it clear that people who seem to be some of the civilized doses of huge pleas from within the bank we're supposed to have. [[The president calls.]] It's our job, our job, to make sure this doesn't happen in our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u13	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, an open meeting was held at night. A financial and business committee with representatives of the European Commission of Money Bank to discuss the money issues, the latest reports and interest decisions, but now, the last happy decision was to lower the management interest. This report and conversation that takes place between the council and the Council Bank on these issues is under law and has been very helpful and necessary. It is essential that such decisions and conditions be handled directly by a national position as the basis for such decisions, and it is equally important to give a financial agency the opportunity to deal with the criticism of money policy, mainly high interest levels, and answer questions about how to apply them. other machines more powerful than that. Yesterday's meeting was no exception, it was very useful. I'm going to draw out what was most significant to me at this meeting. First of all: The nation's positive status and economic success in which all practical people are positive. Second, it is difficult to refute the fact that a conservative money policy has achieved real success. That's a three-year continuous stability period to prove. The question remains: Could the same result have been achieved by a lower interest level, taking into account favorable external conditions? Third, I'm calling the sponsor of the crown and the export work team position. It was particularly about travel services that have grown rapidly with related investments. Fourth, there is a positive development in terms of government law, which, in growing discipline and firmness, should be able to support more money policies than so far. At the latest, I give up the great challenges for the money policy that truly involves the further emissions of capital resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u14	A respectable president. politics and religion are not united. There's something that I would have thought all Western democracys, and even though more people were looking for it, they'd already figured it out. So in Iceland and other parts of the world, there are now many religious differences for various reasons. Such differences may be expected from mankind, who tends to fight very bitterly over his own heart and religion, whether we like it or not, very personal to each other, but that also includes the point: They do not belong in politics. It is not natural for the Icelandic State to have special religions and a special religious organization that the State intends to protect and support. It is not a normal system where equality for law is really respected, not just by Supreme Court decision, but by the value of democratics. This is important. Today, there is an Icelandic community of religious differences that consumes oil with a vocabulary of Icelandic law, such as 5. track No. 35/1960 C.E. of the Christian Fund, which states that rural communities are obliged to give their places to churches. There will be disagreements as to whether they apply to moss. As a result, there will be differences in the interpretation of 62rd. The Constitution, according to the State Council, followed by a disagreement on the interpretation of 65 st. The Constitution on equality, as well as the general equality principle. I find it unacceptable that the horror that can take place as a result of religious differences will receive food from Icelandic law and Icelandic constitution. I find it unacceptable, a respectable president. We just have to separate state and church from the future. We must, not because Christian religion or religion is like that or queer, but because it is a republic. [[The president calls.]] The law here is to rule without regard to religious beliefs. It's democracy, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u15	Mr. President. I don't think the original demands for the Icelandic bank were very happy when they faced what has really happened, to have to cancel between 6 and 7 thousand billion dollars. Because of Iceland's collapse. Most of that account landed in Germany. The lying indiscriminate transfer of candidates to claim that claimors have been given or handed over to banks is beginning to be reduced. They were not handed over banks. They were not given banks. They chose to raise all the money they needed to finance two new banks, and that is not a gift. But it can be said that the foreign demands have finally been given something now when the present government agreed not to pay stable taxes and go out with hundreds of billions of dollars. lower stability donations. It's closer to being called a gift than the others. Other than that, a respectable president, I would mention the proposals, as others have done, and would simply agree that we are to be united in sending a strong message from the Council that we are not going to suffer. We don't want to see Iceland again. That's enough of that. We need to take care of what we can do about this. This is certainly not a financial enterprise that falls directly under the FME guidelines, but one way could be to recommend that they be considered as financial companies and fall under the rules, as old financial companies, though reimbursed. Second, if premiums are to be felt and tolerated, it would be a matter of putting simply general laws in place for business life. Third, and we have everything in our power here, to confiscate this super-bought with taxation. It is a simple procedure to add stress restrictions into income tax laws for buying such items, e.g. above FME thresholds should be used for taxation equipment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u16	Mr. President. I wondered what's going on in our small community. It is crushing spores and growths in tourism; the nation's fish resources yield money as never before, and the bank's stocks pay billions of dollars as a bonus. Why not make a special tax payment, as mentioned earlier? The people say butter crumbling about the economy, and a basking is the economy, but at the same time that the niceer ones in the nation's main sectors do not have money to run preschool and elementary school without shame. Health and health care requirements are longer than acceptable. Daily, we are bombarded with reports of the bad state of the elementary school and, especially, the capital. School directors in the city's elementary school schools express a great deal of concern about school's financial status and demand that their priorities be set for the children in the city, their business is now out of control, and the required school work is not being carried out under the present circumstances. Is this acceptable? Don't you think about something better with your country and your partner? During the past year, 800 children in the waiting period were waiting for an analysis of the disorder and, according to one report, it is not easy to work on these arts. I got tired of reminding myself of the fact that about 6 of you. Children have a permanent shortage of land, not to be reminded of the bad status of a large group of cripples and older citizens who have to get along with hunger. Around 60% of prisoners in Icelandic prisons are ADHD, i.e. hyperactivity including disturbance in attention. It's coming even. in an interview with the Directorates of ADHD in the press this week and it shows that there is a lack of resources for prisoners by this analysis. For one thing, the prisoners are not allowed to take medication to treat the disease while they are in autopsies. What kind of bullshit is that? That's what I was wondering. Mr. President. It's completely disturbing how wrong it is in our good country. And not providing sufficient funds for education and assistance to our children and financial resources to those who are housed in society is the greatest waste possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u17	President. Sometimes it is said that the people of the country do not reflect that we are something far from the people of the country. I don't think it's true, and I'll prove what most people are talking about here today, which is a bonus in the swelling farms. I believe that's a lot of talk in regular coffee rooms too. Granted, the southwestern corner is due to a vote, but hopefully it will be fixed quickly when a new constitution takes effect. But I'm not gonna talk about it right now. I'm going to talk about everybody being shocked, and they say there's nothing you can do with these bonuses. It confirmed the Supreme Court. A secretary of finance last night, but he was advised that taxes can be made. A lot of taxes can be made. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has many experts to control. I would be very happy if he came here in the next few days with a suggestion to have a high tax - a whale-reckage tax, some call it, a Šwindfall tax, in foreign - on the bonuses if that is not the case. I don't think that's all there is to it. We can't hide behind the fact that it's a imported mollusk. If the highest. A minister doesn't have the experts to do this, maybe I'll be ahead of him because I went looking for specialists this morning to check for me how I could put a law on paying huge taxes on these bonuses.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u18	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the employment board on bill to legalize the change of agricultural laws, equipment laws, and customs, as shown in the headline of the committee, in the daily speech of the collective agreements, and their payment at the assembly recommended in springtime. The bill went to what? Work committee to treat and what. Since then, a professional committee has helped to deal with it and has received numerous visitors and comments on the big issue. Generally speaking about agriculture, which is often extensive and hard but usually good and useful, it is sometimes far beyond normal levels of the industry in some sense, i.e. We're dealing with 1% of GDP in the financial expenses, a business that produces mainly food, related to agricultural contracts, which accounts for about 6% of the household expenses. The discussion might suggest that this is a much larger and more extensive industry. Of course, many questions arise when dealing with such big issues as agricultural contracts and agriculture policies. First, let us draw it here to the highest agreement. Agricultural minister brought in the spring council, and we have been discussing this very milestone. For the first time in over a decade, we are planning to change the focus of international farming contracts and agricultural policy. To me it cannot be possible to do nothing at this moment, to get fired on, and to extend one or two or three years in addition to the contracts that have been in force. It's been done too long. The big news is that we've been doing the past few weeks and months, and it's the work of the discussion today that we talk over the project of how we want to stress it. Of course, the collection of meanings is different, depending on where we come from and where political parties are involved, but that is especially what I want to put on at the beginning of my history that the big news is: The biggest change in agricultural policy is probably 25 years behind, and there is nothing left to wait on that journey. Much of the criticism of the contracts came into the council was that they were closed away for a very long time. Then came a discussion. The job committee was very serious, and especially involved, and I will explain further when the talk is extended. As in times past, facts about issues and realities are often lost, but they were not here at all. Never was there to tie or to stone a ten - year - old agricultural policy, as could be understood in a conversation that got under way on spring days, unless it was less. It is only natural to ask what that would mean. I think the most important answer to that is, we're initiating a much higher level of agriculture competition than we've ever been before. It is linked to another council case that we are discussing here later today, which is the rest of the customs contract for the European Union, where significant production of imports, is being implemented most likely for a decade. It is also reasonable to ask whether these agreements are added to the competition, so consumers can trust that this will be a lower price at the store. Yes, they can count on it, especially because of what I mentioned earlier, that we are expanding the vast number of imports that, unchanged, will lead to a great survival for domestic agricultural production. Then there are many other basic questions about how to secure the interests of our farmers. One of the major subjects in the treatment of the Committee was to put their arms around it. Of course, if we, with all the changes we are making in some way severely produce farmers for a long time, we will have to fight and win. I'll admit it, the highest. Mr President, I'm concerned about this, and it's about much of our committee opinion. I think it would be good for us in this discussion today to approach it more closely from the facts that have more often been lost or missed in this much discussion. It's very nice to look, and I've said that before in this talk, how to talk about farming in Iceland compared to many other countries. As we progress in this world, which I have done for a long time, we learn that we are approaching a different era between nations. If we look at a meeting program of major industrialities when their leaders meet, the issue is number one, two, and three in them found food security, food security, and how we are going to respond to the major task of producing more food in a world that is in some sense being overrun by people. It's a big project, but we're getting closer to the discussion more often than just the farmers themselves. It is a task to deal with and to draw out different cards and different aspects of the discussion. It has been reported in a newsletter after the Commission's opinion of the trade committee began to be born that we are making very extensive and drastic suggestions for changing existing market contracts. Here's what I'd like to say: We've been trying to avoid breaking the terms of the contracts that have been signed. On the other hand, we have also sought to use the tools included in those contracts to advance, expand the agricultural discussion, and deal with the task I was tracking down, whether we were closing the sector in a decade of unchangeableness. Not at all. It may well be, and I figure strongly, that many of the people who voted for these contracts in our districts would be shocked when they see this presentation and payment of the Commission on farm agreements, but I ask them to state well what is being done on the table and what we're trying to develop the case to make more peace. More peace has been made between commandment and commandment. Work committee in all of this coverage. I don't think any job in Iceland is now facing better hand-to-hand discussions about their working conditions and terms. Following the 1991 national treaties, a wide discussion of agriculture and agriculture took place in Iceland. That conversation was inevitable, the conversation led to the basic policy of agriculture that we still discuss here, and we are turning into important issues. A large conversation about the interests of milk production, consumers, and the manufacturer was also made in the leading of a milk contract made in 2004. Then, in 2004, the work became a problem with a milk deal. The large groups of workers and the wide cohesion taught us mainly the sector of agriculture in many parts of the world. She is often controversial and in ammunition, but she needs to open her books and create an ever - increasing understanding of her circumstances. The big commandment proposed by the Work Board for the changes in our committee is that we apply the revised regulations of the petition agreements that have been signed by the government's judges and now take three years in a broad national theme of Icelandic agriculture. Whether we use the methods of national meetings or other tools, I will not judge, but we will act here as one of our changes to agrienvironmental development would form the area of cooperation as soon as possible and that we will start that conversation so that when it comes to the revision in 2019, we will have a national interest in Icelandic agriculture, where we want to go with it, how we want it to look, and how we're going to prepare for the future. This does not change the final agreements on the agricultural policy itself and its implementation, although we have built it in broad national circles, in the hands of our farmers and governments. A number of comments to the Committee have rolled over different sides that are too far off in this history. A majority of the employment committees note in one nine-countd detail in the Committee's opinion what this national conversation should be done. First, we note that there is a much closer need for the unique status of the Icelandic agricultural sector, the special status we would like to protect permanently in Icelandic agriculture, and how we can strengthen its competitiveness in quality and purity. Especially is this uniqueity in our healthy animal stocks, in our grass feeding program, in the small use of artificial fertilizers that are unusually limited on the land compared with many other agriculture we compare with, much less drug abuse than in other places, and then banning the use of growth-rich materials or growth hormone. When in 1965, more than half a century ago, we made it a success to exclude it from our agriculture. It was also under the lead of Icelandic farmers in 1985 that it was a step to encourage governments to reduce the use of antibiotics in feed and to eliminate them almost from their food supply in this country, and this results in our having agriculture, which in an international comparison, uses one of the least of the antibiotics for their production. We know that unfortunately, in many countries, due to farmers, some call factory farms, it is necessary to use large amounts of drugs simply to let the farm population grow and grow. That's the way it is, for example. the need in Germany to give two to three broad-spectrum antibiotics to catch them in the size of slaughter. All of this is a special agricultural facility, and we believe that long-term preservation is a matter of building on that special status, thus putting an eye on competitiveness. This is certainly the most competitive advantage of Icelandic agriculture. Therefore, more than a part of the employment committee also calls attention to the timely nature of this point, the time we use until the first review of agricultural contracts, the pros and defects of excluding genetically modified feed products in Icelandic agriculture. I think it's a very personal success, but we'll leave it for a closer analysis of these consultations so that we can take a closer look at that discussion of the depth. The third dot in the pan-European region of the greater part is that one of the major initiatives of the meeting area and preparation for the next review protected climate and environment. We propose a review of agreements in 2019 that the overall agricultural role in climate and environment activities has been proposed to enhance the aspects of the agreements that face environmental issues and to set out the detailed objectives and milestones of future years to work together as farmers and state authorities. The majority agree on the importance of these projects and feel that they need a strong look at the review of the Treaty in 2019 C.E. It's even here. Based on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in agriculture, the start-up of wetlands, the ongoing study, assessment and monitoring systems with the state and development of GDPs to include to ensure sustainable application of land, farmers' forestry, working with farmers, as directed by Farmers, and farming environmental advice, e.g. the binding of carbon and less emissions, as well as the energy efficiency of agriculture. We'll need an inch pack to give advice to farmers if we get there, for example. to climate and what we can bind and how we can reduce emissions in Icelandic agriculture. We need basic knowledge and basic guidance tools so that we can work on these projects to our special Icelandic agriculture in this regard. We have many clues and many foreign observations and results that we need to review and check here at home. We have a lot of evidence that, for example... Because of the feeding of the cattle with grass, which is predominantly in this country, greenhouse gas emissions from the habitat are much less than from the same livestock that is being practiced in other countries, with high production of grains. The fourth number of each part contributes to the next revision is making a real effort to provide information to consumers on farm products. In our work we have stepped deep into the need to inform consumers about what is on the shelf, how it is produced, and under what circumstances. This is one of the red strands that we can say was in a number of references to the Committee, information sources to consumers and consumer rights to find out how the product is produced. We've made laws and regulations in this country. We have many tools and tools to achieve this goal. At our committee party, we come to terms such as can be achieved by the use of laws that have already been approved and the setting of regulations on the basis of them. We strongly recommend that this be done the first. Fifth, we also agree that we want the European Union's declaration of origin markings to be accelerated to ensure the traceability of domestic products. We've been informed that that this case is coastal on the Norwegian people today, after our own awareness primarily because the Norwegians want to go beyond the directive. I think that's a sobering viewpoint the Norwegians offer in that regard. They simply say that it will not be allowed to the extent authorised by the directive to use raw materials for food production which are not specifically mentioned or taken from any other market but are stated in the meaning of the product. I'll take an example that may be removed from us, which is authorized to use a substantial amount of wine from Chile into European red wines, yet they're born as European wine. [[Up front.]] It also has to be conceived in terms of the birth marks that the source markings for beef have already come into force on the basis of this directive and have been introduced here in a country that may have been primarily a reaction to a horse flesh-slamp which has been sometimes called as the result of wearing horse meat as beef. The source label for beef has already been introduced. sixth, more than a part of the employment committee gives specific suggestions that during the analysis work now needs to be discussed with other employment roads. Iceland falls under the pure image of the northern part of the world and it's important to pass an opinion. Clean energy, healthy and fresh food and clear liquids are factors that are woven into market exports and require consistent management. The growth and maintenance of tourism has created new opportunities in many parts of the country, but it is at the same time important for tourism to maintain a cultural climate and a pattern in the country that the agriculture can most secure. In reviewing agrienvironmental policies, particular attention should be paid to agrienvironmental activities. A respectable president. The focus of a major part of the employment committee in this regard is that there is no single profession that needs to be taken into account. Businesses have a backdrop on their backs and backs. That is why it is important for us to do our diagnostic work and the national agreement on agriculture now on hand, we realize that we are not an island in Icelandic agriculture rather than any other profession could be an island. We'll discuss competitive matters and the working environment. The debate on competitive, dairy, and competitive matters is often loud and frequent. I expect that she will continue to do so in this discussion, as she often did in the past. When we look at a regular work on Icelandic agricultural products and competitive legislation and compare with other countries, it is now very poor to see in our laws about how we are behind the Icelandic agriculture in comparison with many other countries. We've created here and we've been working on competitive legislation that originated in the large European economy and we're using our daily legislation here. [[Up front.]] Of course, the competitive laws apply to the economy called the European Economic Area, but what I was going to show is also a large and large marketing directive. The Marketing Agricultural Directive in the European Union is a large and heavy code of law that always replaces the competitive environment. It is important to remember that we have extremely poor resources in our livestock to keep track of the agricultural production and interest of agricultural production here in view of many other countries. This may be both an option and a defect. As to whether the report site or the revision work goes forward to 2018, we will change the famed exception of the milk industry from certain factors to cooperate only: This cooperation is much bigger than any cooperation in the dairy industry. That release is actually the vertebral column in a regional policy, a vertebrae in that we can say to farmers: You have the freedom to live where you want to live wherever you want to, but you have a position to match your production profile, in this case of milk production, and we're willing to place a milk company to live under that obligation. In that world, I'm going to guess that the authority to cooperate can also give birth to anything other than to show off. That's the way it is, for example. are now being attacked, on the basis of this work and cooperation source, a large project for milk plants waste and use in mosus derived from the manufacture and is a large environmental issue. Our suggestion for the revision is to deal with competitiveness and the work environment of the products in general. In a meeting with a man. This morning's employment committee represented the slaughter holder and a representative of the sheepfolds in which we discussed the significant decrease in farms we see today, probably a 15925% salary decrease in Icelandic sheep farms. Naturally, we must ask: What is it that is not working in our working environment? What is it that we need so that we can respond to such a situation today? Are there any tools and tools that we've put away that make this position? In 2007 a practical agreement was set aside to require an Icelandic government, an important tool for exporting duties at that time. In effect, the decision that was then taken is now going to be of great burden to us with the reality that we find in Icelandic sheepfolds, where the whole community is on a smoldering journey, increasing its power of riches, but they are living in worse terms. In the work environment, of course, there are a number of factors that we need at any given time to deal with competitive legislation and natural competitiveness. One of the focus points in our changing proposals is that we especially want to put the interests of those who are in the process of producing from the raw milk of products in a local market, often called smaller production initiatives. The eighth number of projects that we hide in the collaboration committee is the result of farmers. We will draw attention to the need to detect the cost of assembly and production costs in Iceland much more than we have done. I think a lot of interesting things can come out of that diagnostic work. In particular, I'm going to mention that there are many indications that farms have not followed the general trend in the country. A detailed comparison of national and imported production requirements and an impact on production costs must be made. Mr. President. To us, it must be fundamental to the new agricultural policy and new agricultural contracts, or whatever we call the setting we take, that we are moving forward to the increased demands of domestic production and the costs of our production in our small country, which are in very special circumstances, at least in many ways. It is also worthy to wonder, in this period, whether farming and farming products can actually be maintained on their own. These are the main points that more than a part of the employment committee suggests to open up a discussion together with a number of other factors that he will no doubt consider and understand. We feel very important that there will be a rapid progress in providing space for the national resources we are building up and that agrienvironmental ministers are going there and that this great work will be created necessary space as well as necessary financial resources. It is obvious that considering the huge task we have framed in our committee and other factors that undoubtedly arise in that conversation, we will have to make a lot of money so that we can have a powerful, good, and careful preparation to make the changes that can result. Mr. President. It is inevitable that toll agreements also mix in a large part on the market agreements. We have spent a considerable amount of time analysing it, and we are here offering suggestions on how to meet the increase in competition and therefore try to strengthen the competitiveness of national production against the increase in import. What I really want to do is that we still don't create the agriculture that tools and equipment that he can rebuild his manufacturing capacity. We lose every year a share in the market, at least in the pig and chicken production, but we haven't created them any real opportunities to do something with growing markets, unfortunately. Of course, there are no patent solutions, but there is certainly one of the challenges we have to face. In making adjustments, we have a landmark proposal that, for example, we should make adjustments. the special-marked cheese that was negotiated into a tax agreement will be brought in without tenders, but divided by a coin toss, which is more closely attributed to our report. We believe that the 230-ton shell with a specialized cheese is that we have the highest capacity to make it a quality of life, we can say, increase the product selection in stores, and that the benefits of the change are rapid and successful to consumers, but at the same time try not to allow it to become a monotonous import in a single form of cheese that will block the market on day one from its arrival. I think it is inevitable, too, that in the context of customs contracts and changes in the domestic agreements and in this plagion case, we also use a lot of agricultural schemes in our country. We are particularly concerned with their interests, using milk powder, and we draw attention to the reduction in some 20% of food - producing milk supply by the price - price market, the nature of the case. We strongly suggest that the price of milk powder is at any given time in a particular relationship with global prices. For a short time, international market prices were much higher than milk powder prices were recorded in Iceland. This is one of the important measures we believe are needed to implement, to meet a new customs agreement, to ensure that the Icelandic food industry can enjoy Icelandic materials. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. The committee opinion includes changes in our proposals, which I don't have time to trace further but look forward to participating in the discussion on this major subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u19	A respectable president. This calls for much attention in the public talk. A senator and in the opinion of a greater part of the employment committee that people are now planning to contribute to national agriculture, to policy-making in the article after a ten - year contract has been made. Well, maybe. A senator assured the U.S. Senate that it will be a mere formal agreement? However, the contract remains on the part of the majority of it until the end of the ten - year period. What position does the State have to reevaluate expenses and methods according to the agreement in the future pseudoconsistencies? Well, maybe. A senator assured a body of Congress that it will be possible for the State to compromise the terms of the agreement without improvement? It is also in a unique position on the part of the government to submit a contract in which no analysis of the terms of the agreement has been conducted and that it is the Council to try to create the goal of a ten - year contract in a government that is in the last record, in the final stages, in the breaths, in the Lady, in order to attempt to drool over the target line. And it should really be the ambitions of the administrative part that sits in this proposed government and gives it support at the General Assembly, trying to tie up the hands of three next Parliaments with expenses that are preferably equal to Icesave, the worst version of Icesave treaties, 200 billion if all is counted, toll protection and direct spending for the next ten years. Well, maybe. A senator promised that there will be a renegotiation? Can he promise that a contract is being concluded for three years and not ten?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u20	Mr. President. Yeah, I can promise you what. Because the council has the necessary authority to record at any given time the emphasis they themselves want to put in agreements and dealings with farmers. This was made clear at a meeting. Work committees preparing for this matter. We also have the history to refer to that subject, for the government is the driving force. At the same time, a senator walked into the market agreements and reduced contributions to them, and afterward it was negotiated when other government changes had become, and the senator actually supported the government as well. On the other hand, what I missed from the senator in his excellent answer was the vision he had in this regard and what he was going to suggest. Will he suggest what he usually did in the former government, to extend the old contracts over and over and over, never to deal with change, and never dare to deal with what really needs to be done, to break out of it as well. This fall results in a 25% drop in Icelandic sheep farms.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u21	A respectable president. It's easy to say what I want to do. I'd like to handle the management system in this article, extra market freedom. I told the government when we were working on this contract, that if it took a 10-year contract to get rid of the government and overmanagement system we're living with, I'd be ready to do it. The problem is, there's nothing to deal with here. The production control isn't finished. And humans remain unchanged. That's why I want to ask you why, too. A senator, for he lied in his earlier speech that it was necessary to keep the exception from competitive law for the milk industry. It was reported from the Committee to Contestance that there was nothing in the obligation to draw milk at the same price throughout the country that required an exception to competitive laws. Why is the greater part maintaining that defect, contrary to what was intended for that exception in 2004, it was to be temporary, in order to facilitate compression in the article? [[The president calls.]] Why is this being maintained? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u22	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years were two times in the process of extending the old agricultural contracts, and it is only right to say that I shared with him. As a result, I can also testify that it was very difficult to have a conversation about making changes that were already needed. That's the changes we're about to make here. We're not saying that the milk industry has to go on forever. I agree with what you're saying. The senator said that it was arranged to achieve certain goals. But the reality is that this exception is worth hundreds of millions. For example, we may begin to draw closer to our discussion of how we will resolve the matter or how we will change it in order to achieve the same goal. It may also mean that we need to set up other taxpayers and other means of coping with them. If we just take the exact position that it is today, that Arna's fine milk processing company in Bolunga, who hopefully will soon make use of all the milk produced on the West, they have the right to let the big marketing party, the Lacties, drive milk to them all over the country without especially paying for it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u23	V.E.G. President. I'm going to take advantage of the right to respond. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, front guide of the case on behalf of the greater part. I come to other matters when I bring my committee next. What I want at first to ask why. A senator in terms of competitiveness and the exception of competitive milk production laws in the country. I'm asking because the rest of the deal, e.g. The sheep contract, as shown at a meeting this morning and the production of the Eagle in Bolungarvík and Kópavogi, is subject to competitive laws. The same could be said of a gardener that I know best. This is where I name sheep farmers, two dairy companies, Eagle and Cuckoo, and veggie producers, all of them under competitive law. Is it not, then, the exception of a time error today, and would it not have been better if we took the exception and cut down all the branches under competitive law? My question to why. A senator is this: Why are sheep farmers, Arna, Chu, and veggie producers subject to competitive songs, but milk producers, MS and fortunemakers, are not?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u24	Mr. President. In all principle, agriculture, agriculture, distribution, and competitive legislation are, although we have had this special provision for the switch-and-replace operation in the dairy industry that we have been traced here. There are also many more aspects. We can review the history of 2002, when the official price of holographic products on dairy products had been removed, and then the decision was canceled. It wasn't to claim an Icelandic farmer. It was the requirement of the country's small sales, where this point, the same price for this important category of products at the Icelandic grocery store, made it possible for smaller people on the market to rely on the same price. I don't think that giving up competition for the milk industry is going to be unnecessary. I believe that up to that time, we need to raise a great deal of rock and see how we will conduct competitive legislation, what competitive goals we want to achieve. I have even. An article in the paper on the lack of sales and practices of a small sales market. I'd also like to remind you that what the Contestance Commission has said, e.g. in his January 2012 report on the grocery market, by permission of the president: ▪ Advertisers'shopping prices from suppliers of common dairy products show that there is very little difference between commerce and shopping, and this is the only category in which less shops have similar markets to the larger markets. We can't just look at one side of this dieve. This is much bigger than is often mentioned in the discussion. It turns even that we maintain a more active competition in a small sales market. Let us not forget that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u25	V.E.G. President. I really think it's a little bit of a big deal. A senator says, in view of the urgency of the occasion. A senator is a member of the Independence Party, who has carried for himself the desire of business freedom and freedom in business, etc., that milk and milk production are the exception of competitive law. That's why I'm asking. Again and ask him to give a clear answer regarding what I thought was presented here: Perhaps it was necessary to give up while making a decision, but is it necessary now in 2016? I say no, and I ask why. Because I have had that viewpoint and ask a visitor at a committee meeting: Is it not for the benefit of the local community and the Galacoli and others simply to step forward and say, "Yes, we now wish this release and we'll just be under competitive laws like the other branch of agriculture?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u26	Mr. President. Yes, I believe she has and has to stand for a while. I think it's a sign that the Senator has arrived at a certain flight from his case when he starts talking about how in the world this may come from a member of the Independence Party, the viewpoint I'm doing here. Farming, no matter where we go into agriculture, is not put on the meter of free trade. I want to point 'em, too. Senator at... [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I traced with the Commission's opinion that the EU agriculture market directive is full of such measures that we can say are related to this release, just because of this forward call, I would like to make this statement. I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that there's a double situation. A member of the government was changed, and this release was not attempted, so let us examine both words and interests in this conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u27	A respectable president. National society on agriculture, said so. A senator, but is it not strange to want to validate the contract first and then ask for opinion, then accept the conversation? This is what we in the bright future have pointed to, and not just now. We prayed about it, and in 2014 we called on it, repeatedly, that these agreements would be made immediately in conversation and agreement on the agreement, but it was decided not to do so. Now, the administrative body wants to do this all at once but use proben after the contract is legalized. I'm afraid of this and I'm suspicious. All I want to do is come back to a farm because it was all about how the more part is worried about her. There's supposed to be a review of progress. I'll tell you what she's like. At the current level of sales, or the change in the level of the crescent, the rise in gangs is demeaning to farmers. Power stations are now reporting, for example. A 10% lower price to a sheep's prayer. This contract responds in this way when it comes to raising payment. It'll lead to more production, it's just very simple economics, prices are dropping with increasing supply, and this is how farmers get off. It will continue to be less and less effective with the approval of this agreement. And I would like to ask, " Why do more of the employment committees not focus on improving the interests of farmers and making them better? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think it's very important, as I traced into my story, that we now begin the road to these big changes. That's why we're struck this ten-year-old frame, that's why we're put on a big transition, and I think that the national interest we're going to want to put on laws and implement is important as part of the transition process that needs to be carried out. I respect the opinion of a man. A senator as to whether this was to come first or after, but the reality is that the alternative is to do nothing, continue with the old agreement, and still postpone the process of dealing with this discussion while we wait for another ship. I agree with what. A senator on the development of farmers, who knows that like many others, he has an accurate knowledge of this and of anxiety. I think it's so important that when the reality has become that - for a long time, the price on beef to farmers is lower and similar to that in other countries, now the price of lamb for farmers is much lower than in other countries - that we look at the whole worth - the entire career of the product from a farmer to consumer, and we see where the problem is. Where will the price come from? I don't think until we get through that discussion, we can deal with it. I think we can say with a good conscience that almost every branch at the manufacturer's stage is completely competitive despite everything, despite the small, despite the ease of the country in the world, but when you go through the process, you're driving off somewhere. [[Up front.]] There may be many reasons for what we need to find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u29	A respectable president. With all due respect, it's a point that's had to be examined for a long time. I know why. A senator has been referring to these things for a very long time. What will come out of a national agreement on this particular matter that will somehow change his vision? We all know the circumstances here; meat mountains, overproduction, reduced prices to farmers. We all know that story. We know exactly what's going on. These contracts offer added remuneration, which will translate overproduction, which will translate into a reduced price to farmers. How can more than one part of a professional body offer this up to farmers, once again offering worse benefits to farmers?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u30	Mr. President. We've been through a lot of menopause courses like cogs. A senator runs. We've been through overproduction, we've been through a reduction in farms. We've also gone through want. When a contract began to be prepared for the agreements we are considering today, for example, the search began. for lack of milk. It's not like that any more. I'm not so worried that the changes brought in in the livestock contracts we're here to confirm will lead to overproduction or significant increase in sheep like sheep. A senator's worried about her, and she's been tracking clearly. I think, for example. that the prices currently being offered for this production are not directly encouraging farmers to expand their farms or contribute to more cost of production. What comes out of the conversation I've never seen before? I think it's very important that the council, the high Council, and a professional committee, cannot be putting down some lines on what to come out of it. I have certain ideas about what should come out and how to handle them. Sadly, the reality is that for a long time, we have been missing some factors in the agricultural industry, and we need to work on that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u31	V.E.G. President. I move here at the beginning of my committee opinion, which appoints a 1st smaller part of the employment committee, to be a bill for the change in agricultural laws, equipment laws, and customs laws (final contracts and equipment contracts). For the first thing, I mention that my share thinks it's right to point to the state in which the council is put in on the basis of the implementation and confirmation of agricultural agreements. The agreement is made between a government minister and the local community without any entrance to the Generals for a preparatory and negotiation period. The situation is as usual, i.e. The council stands before the word, and it can hardly change anything, since it is claimed that the contract will not continue and that it will have to be paid for other votes among farmers. My first minor section considers this unacceptable position for the Generals and the Generals, and believes that the Ministers properly contribute to a contract objective in the form of a synonym that the Council can discuss and make adjustments if so. The objectives of a contract that would have been discussed at the General Assembly would be so fundamental to the discussions of the state with farmers in making a domestic agreement so approved by the General Assembly after such a process. There have been many comments and criticisms from sources and visitors in the context of the above mentioned statements. However, the 1st memory item suggests the following modifications: First, it is suggested that the secretary nominate the representative of the less industrial companies of dairy products on the price-sustaining Committee and will then appoint one representative, but according to the current law of the nominees of the latter two representatives. The happy development has been that competition in this article has increased, and smaller people have taken a course, with the adjustment proposed to try to trust their status. There is a remarkable initiative both in Bolungarvík, formerly Milk, and now in this regard by the company of Núsar. This is where I go beyond the largest part of my life which suggests that these smaller parties will be assigned to an interviewee on the price market. I suggest that this be divided, and I think there might be a good way to make peace with them, to discuss them in there. Second, the 1st small section provides a clear definition of the length of the contract for three years and is proposed to make adjustments to several aspects of the agreement. The length of the contracts to ten years has been highly critical and is about two terms terms. In this regard, I'd like to mention that after my request, a professor at the University of Iceland who is an expert in negotiations was called and this proposal made me feel necessary to move from there. It should be noted that the fine representative who appeared to the committee also pointed out that there is great clarity and improvement if the parties agree, i.e. For example, representatives of the government and prayer killings convened on a book that would follow in the case here that a three - year contract could be made that can be recorded from both parties, but it is not in itself clear enough today. I've been there asking if this book will come. The majority of the committees were referred to as being working for 3rd. I think it's very important that we show up. Third, it is suggested that the milk industry be expelled from the competitive environment as well as 3 mg. 13th par. The law of the law states that in spite of the principle of competition, prices between productions in the dairy industry are permitted. It is also added to Article 13. The law on the obligation of the products to sell milk to other sources at price consistent with 1 mg. 13th par. The law. The majority of the proposals made by the Contestant sent the committee by a memo dated August 23, 2016, which had been requested by the Committee for Monitoring in this case. I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that this is the kind of thing I'm doing here as my proposal. Many words can be said about this. There's been a lot of discussions even. On the committee and also on my request, representatives from multiple sclerosis came to the meeting to discuss these matters. What happened was that not many people had to come in. Almost the same person is in the management of multiple sclerosis and inexpensiveness. True, there are seven human governments, while five humans rule in MS, but much is set up for the same people. Then it was written in that way, which may have been a mistake and corrected, I want to make it clear, that the Manager Gumhumlu was registered as MS's employee. The way this is done shows that today's society, today, has no way of doing it this way. It was shown, for example, that MS is renting pendant cars and machines to collect milk, while gills are a holding organization full of property and renting MS. This is not a form that should exist in 2016. I quote what I said earlier in a short answer to what I said. paritaprevir Haraldur son of Benediktsson that it may well be, and I'm quite agree that the exception has been necessary until now, but I'm absolutely on the verge that the exception should be canceled and reiterated what I said earlier that I thought it would have been better if the proposal had come from both the Bavors and those companies. Fourth, a 3 mg change is proposed. 65. g. The law on the distribution of tollovates to be responsible for the distribution of tollovita if it receives more import applications than the tollcanols. However, it is also stated that each candidate or linked to a person can receive a maximum of 15% of the total amount. If I have time, a respectable president, when I am through this committee opinion, I will offer further support in this matter. Fifth, the 1st small section suggests that the bill is added to the provision for the removal of government payments to those who have repeatedly violated animal health laws. Part 1 shows that in the bill that became the animal welfare law, i.e. Case 283 at the 141th legislature, this was a law order, which was suspended in the case of the then employment committee. In the opinion of the Commission on deck. 1216 showed the following, by permission of the president: However, the evidence shows that the existence of measures is normal and in line with the requirements that can be considered reasonable in making government data available to treat treaties that carry out public funds. Therefore, the Commission directs the request to the Directorate-Progression Ministry to make a special opinion whether it is not right to create room for the recording of the measures for future reasons, e.g. a review of agricultural and agricultural shapes and a renewal of contracts on the basis of them. However, it appears that these factors have not been discussed with existing domestic agreements, despite the recommendations made by the Committee. So this proposal is now moved. The first part of my life sent to the Ministry of prose and innovation after the assembly was met in September some questions and asked for their answers and are published in a publication of some tables for information and information. A lower share of sadness and criticism is that the Ministry has not been able to answer questions about the total state's income from imported agricultural products, and has confidence that there is the answer for a discussion in the Committee between 2 and 3. The point, but it has already been said that the matter will be called into question. Why did I ask for those answers? Because I would like to know which toll income is of the import of agricultural goods to compare it with the concentrations provided, and I now mention and come to it later, e.g. To compare the import of pork to the 440 million delivered in this ten-year contract, which occurs in the first five years, to compare which toll income is opposed to what I believe the state has to offer to meet the pig and chicken farmers' rules we pick up from the European Union and the European Union will strengthen farmers in their countries to record this. I believe that when we're going to compare ourselves with other countries, including... Importing agricultural products from EU and non-EU countries, we need to be able to say that we are doing this as if the large trading company in Brussels. Here I come to a chapter called Bones in Milk and Sheep. It shows that the table can see the switch of bone payment in milk and sheep culture by rural society and country ideals in 2015 as well as the population of each rural society. The table can include: see how important agriculture is to a variety of less populated areas of the country, which have been classified according to the definition of theisation of the Agency. It should also be noted that according to the bill, building agency is involved in specifying some based support. I call attention to the fact that this is a follow-up of my committee that can be seen on the Generals website, but there was a small problem in taking these documents that came from the Ministry and putting them on this committee opinion. I assume that in the electronic world people can see this well. I call attention to the tablet because it is very interesting to compare bone payment in milk and sheep and to compare it with the population, and then to look at it from what is written here, where people think to live. With regard to sheep farmers, to take special action for those who live far from urban areas and thus find it harder to get another job. It also shows that it seems that the sheep farmers cannot survive their farms and that most of them have to go to work elsewhere. The section on the petition provided in the accompanying table answers the Ministry's questions about the return price to the sheep farmers during the past ten years. It shows that the return price is 597 K. In 2015 for dilka and 174K. For grown-ups. Clearly, these payments are not tall and clear. The poor supply of sheep farmers and the need for most farmers to do other work. It is also important to bear in mind, along with the exchange of bone payment by rural communities, that in some areas sheep farmers have a long way to go looking for another job. This must be taken into account, as discussed by the Agency's first recommendations, i.e. by strength distance. This is really an appeal for what I just said. Also, a few slaughter crews have recently reported as many as 101⁄215% reduction in farm prices, which will make their survival worse, and have criticized sheep farmers of that price. At the time of this committee's review, the time had not been reached by the MAH's command to review the presented prices and why it is necessary in their opinion. Signed for a considerable amount of time ago, they wanted to know why this is necessary. 1st smaller things wonder if there's a bad outcome from an export card in there. In the package leaflet for this observation, there is a table entitled Qualification for Farming. I want to know that at the latter part of the meeting of the employment committee this morning, a representative of the slaughter holder, Steinþór Skúlason, brought us a very good fistula on this matter and opened our vision in this regard. Afterward, representatives from the National Association of Sheepcrows and chairman of the town council came and explained their side. In fact, after the meeting I became convinced that there are things that we would call at other contracts even a failure for this part of the contract, i.e. The deal with sheep farmers. I want to say, because I don't think I'm going to go back to the General on a domestic agreement, that I think over the next few years, there'll be things coming up this year and the next year that went on a much worse road in terms of sheep farmers. The table on sheep production provides an overview of the number of slaughter animals over the last ten years. That's where even the two of them come from. until about 600,000 slaughter animals last year. in 2015. In 2015, tons of manufacture were estimated to be 10,185 tons, and within the country it was sold at 6,462 tons. Moreover, it is reported that 2,947 tons were exported last year. Interestingly, since 2009 there are about 58,000 animals or about 1,344 tons. It's put out here, including... To draw out that what I'm afraid of is that the production of lamb is increasing and the problem is increasing, as it was observed in the wind. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir earlier. True, it was at the meeting of the representative of the Sheep's Sheep Association that there may be a case of slaughtering many adult sheep and being less intent, but it has not given me the time to look and go through. In 2014 and 2015, it is stated that one of my questions to the Ministry was about the export of lamb and sheep to which countries and what prices have been paid for the export. In response to the Ministry it appears very useful and thorough replacement of the export, i.e. on meat items, to which land product was brought and what price was given. Briefly, in 2015 the following finding was: A total of 2,572 tons of fob price was exported, i.e. The seller pays for transport costs. For the product of the then - known Icelandic crown gang, 1.9 billion were obtained. equal to 761 k. for each kg average. To make it clear, this is on average. Of course, there is a big difference between selling a lamb's thigh or its spine or its beats. The table lists the exported volumes and the country's average values. This is a very interesting table in the discussion of what has been said to be essential for the sheep contracts, i.e. that export is increasing and we're about to get more prices for exported lamb, but as I've said, I seriously doubt it. It has been observed that the estimated export of this year is some 31,000 tons. It should be noted that in view of the price of foreign currency, the recent trust of the crown may be estimated to be about 1.6 billion. Get used for the same amount. It has also been observed in the treatment of the case of the Committee that information has begun to be transmitted through the demands of foreign buyers for a lower price. If you do, you will be less able to fit a exported sheep product. Based on total support to the sheep's agreement, there are about 5 billion dollars. A year before the manufacture of 10,000 tons, it may be estimated that subsidies or exports, whatever the word you want to use, with the 31,000 tons of lamb and sheep, are about 1.5 billion dollars. Therefore, the export of this excess amount of land would bring nothing to the national population, i.e. One thousand thousand thousand thousand billion dollars. of selling goods and about 1.5 billion dollars. In payment from the state funds. Now, in particular, a section of the agreement has been discussed in my opinion, and a smaller portion of the deal is stated and stated that the sheep's financial status is very poor and must be taken into account, and that, despite all of it, the Icelandic lamb and sheep are relatively cheap, even though the divided opinions are dependent on the portions of the meat. Of course, the exchange of prices that consumers pay for our wonderful and wholesome lamb can always be handled. Further reductions in farm prices are another concern that will increase financial division. Sheepfolds, on the other hand, are to be thanked for their wholesome, excellent products. In 2014 and 2015, for the import of pork in this tablet, the import of pork is divided by meat parts and calculated from the Ministry to the average. This table is of interest to many parts of the body and results in a wide range of data, such as that in 2015, 433 tons of pig pages were imported and paid for 209 million. K. The calculated cf average value for these pig pages is 482 k/kg. Of course, no record of what a cif price is, i.e. In addition, costs of transportation and insurance are added. Unfortunately, the Ministry, as I've said before, has not yet been able to answer the question of who is collected from all this pork, but a request for an answer has been made and hopefully the answers are received for 3rd. As a matter of fact, since Denmark, anti-Swine sites recently cost 1,698 k./kg and at the same time in the same store of 1,598 k./kg. As a result, we can conclude that customs are very high on imported swine pages, and there are no others, including the price of difference to consumers. For hair tolls. This draws attention to the fact that Iceland and I have adopted the EU agricultural policy, which strengthens adaptation in those regulations, but only 440 million are available in the Member States. K. The pigs'investments during the contract, as I say, are four times 98 million and the rest in the fifth year up to 440 million. The Ministry's comments contain more tables, interesting tables, drawn here to try to get more discussions about the government's customs, however, what needs to be brought in because of the lack of meat, such as beef, in an effort to find out what the state is getting. But as I've repeated many times, the Toll Hill information still remains. A respectable president. This committee article presents a modification model of 1st smaller objects as well as a variety of data that have been traced. Further viewpoints on the matter will be presented in the discussion as well as in the case of 3rd. It is. This is done at the Council of September 30, 2016, which is today. Kristján L. Möller commands my share. A respectable president. In addition to what I said at the outset, I'd like to say that the committee sent the case to 74 agents and requested their comments. Fifty people gave us reviews. It was said that in many reviews, the delay given in spring was highly criticized to return the reports to the committee, which was seven days. I have explained the changes I think can be made in view of the hopeless situation in which we general members were assigned, depending on what I traced at the beginning. I would like to say, however, that the work on the Committee has been very good, and I want to thank you for that, like most of the things we do on a professional committee. What an advantage it has been to have a former farmer, Haraldur Benediktsson, a member of the committee, and as an authority in the case, in fact, one can look up in it as an encyclopedia in this regard! I'll tell you at the end that I think it's very good for the Generals that Haraldur Benediktsson son of Benedict will remain there in the next season, whenever it begins, and then also a more attractive commercial agricultural product, Össur Skarphéðinnsson, which makes quite a part of the consumption of all these agricultural equipment, as you can see in his growth. [[Hear, hear. What about you?]] [[Hear, hear.]] [[Up front.]] In the suggestion of the greater part, there are new proposals that I thought I would make, such as increasing my consultations on the construction of the contract by increasing the group, the representative of the employee organisation, consumer organizations, and others who are put in it. At the same time, I was all for the fact that the so - called originated cheeses fell out of this tollabx State. You don't have to use high customs on cheeses that aren't produced in Iceland, and you don't do anything but make those cheeses dizzy in Iceland to compare with what's going on and what happens in countries that sell and we compare ourselves to. These are the two suggestions that I really enjoy best in these matters. But I also said when the matter was taken out of the majority of the committee, which may have been possible. ... soI'dthoughtmywalk in terms of taking part in accepting this, i.e. If we could not agree to take the bill of delinquency away from competitive law, such as I did in the past and in a short answer to the leading authority of the case. But it wasn't. Therefore, this proposal is presented here, which is a proposal from the Contestance Institute, according to the request of the Committee. As I said before, I'll make my suggestion. As for the tollotan auction on the special-marked cheeses, I thought that was true of all that's being brought in. A respectable president. I have made clear my adjustments and have made quite a point of relating the situation of sheep farmers and sheep farmers in the country. I haven't been to the cattle farm much, the milk production. There was a plan, and I remember that the head of the local community arrived at a council meeting on January 11 of the past and distributed to us some of the data that was one of the main objectives of the negotiations, i.e. to eliminate production of milk production. We know how it turned out. That, along with perhaps other factors, changed. I also recall that at a petitioner's meeting, then president of the local community, Haraldur Benediktsson, came once, which he should do more often, during a council meeting of the Conspiracy, and showed us a screenshot showing differences in the status of Icelandic peasants and Scandinavian farmers, he compared financial status and bank accounts. It stood out of two ways as far as Icelandic farmers are concerned. What was that? First of all, buy a dinner. Secondly, financial expenses. I think the plans for the party were the ones that the National Society specifically planned to discuss at its time in terms of eliminating the production management, which did not occur as a result of a conflict among farmers, which also went a little after, I thought, where they lived in the country. However, there will be yet another vote in 2019 and will be part of what will be done in these areas later. A respectable president. As I said before, we've been trying to get through this whole business through with a professional committee. I reiterate to what I said at the outset that it is almost pointless because there are many good comments, many practical suggestions for reforming and other such, there is no place to be put in here because of the process of working under contracts, i.e. One, two, or three ministers discuss the matter on behalf of the State, and the local community settles down, and the Allied council stands for a thing and, in fact, can make no changes, either have to agree or refuse, and then the whole situation goes up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u32	Madam President. I agree with almost everything. A senator said earlier. The evidence that he objected to the agreement could be agreed on in the management of the majority of the committees, in my opinion, are absolutely correct. Hv. A senator made the subject of my personal efforts to eliminate the problems of agriculture on what was once called lice, when one of our predecessors, Lúðvík Jósepsson, said that the best way to cope with overproduction was to eat himself through the meat mountains. I'm not going to discuss it any more. I care about sheep farmers in Iceland. I believe if men are on the other side spending money on paying off agricultural production, they will have to use this equipment to make the most verdant settlements secure. I immediately explained to the earlier winter discussion of the livestock agreement that there were areas of some heat that are highly dependent on sheep farming, e.g. A year in which large flocks of sheep are of great importance to keep the great places built, they basically lost payment on this to a relative extent that of many non-involved habitats. I've been trying to explain whether this has been changed by the Committee and usually by whether it's true. I'd like to ask you what. A senator interested in this, a member of the Committee, is this correct? Is it so that sheep farmers in different graffiti areas carry a relative cut from the table as much as other farmers in less stable areas? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u33	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator, a friend of mine, Aissier Össur's Skarphéðinsson, for this answer without my entering the hatches or other matters. The main question is why. A senator to me was about the sheep farmers and the concerns I expressed in my talk about the survival of sheep farmers and sheep. A senator agrees. Then he's right here about the weakest settlements in the country. So it was that if I remember correctly, the Commission came to the Committee to get farmers from the Beaches, from the Devils, and from Sheikh County. I'm sorry, I don't have that kind of thing next to me. They had had had the effect of this contract for themselves and their territory, if all of this works. They expressed a lot of concern and described calculations, professionally and professionally, about a great decrease in their sights in these weakest places. There's one of the problems with this contract plus again that we can cross into the pitlands and one of those that use a lot of sheep on a soda belt and other areas that are very good for sheep bait, where there may be a shrinking or a shrinking. Of course, it mixes too. But that's where they missed a lot of anxiety. However, I would like to say, as I said in my committee's list, that it is the role of a graffiti to go through this and implement rules and resources to meet the weakest, and to strengthen them particularly beyond those that are stronger.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u34	Madam President. That true answer. paritaprevir Kristján Möller shows what kind of people are starting with this weakness. The answer won't make me understand any better. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, but this contract has been stepped into by farmers and the highest. Governments without knowing what the consequences would be. It is controversial among many, whether or not to provide funds to support agricultural production in Iceland. I believe, however, that there will be no stopping it, and I believe that if you do it on the other hand, you have to have certain goals to guide. First of all, people need to think about the land and make sure that such support is particularly pointed, since it is not possible to lead to decay, such as in sensitive areas near a Drill. Secondly, such support should be directed in an area, such as I mentioned, e.g. In the West, and in Hunsavours, where there is no danger, and in the settlements, where they need strong and powerful sheep. According to this response from the man I trusted most in these matters, I would have concluded that the beginning of this case was in such a way that no one knew what they were doing. It may well be that now, like a whale. A pilot and, actually, a protégé. paritaprevir Kristján Möller says that it should be considered at a future time. Why, though, was this not examined first? I know I shouldn't be ashamed of it. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller has tried to use himself in a positive way, but that is the greater part that must have to live up to the responsibility to explain how man goes this way, in a way that leads to the worst farmers coming out worst.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u35	V.E.G. President. Whatever it is. A senator makes a comment in his later answer to me correctly is that it needs to blend into an area where sheep and other areas of sheep are better used. I'll take as an example the soda belt, as we've seen many times, and the reviews of various sources I respect, who sent us reviews in this regard. It is the same as many other things; it is not to be taken into consideration. I say, for my part, and I repeat what I said before, I don't know what comes out of the building agency's suggestions, but we've seen the first things and they're, so you can say, hopefully, there's a building agency there on the right track, i.e. taking distance samples from urban areas, where farmers can find work and strengthen them more if they have to go long distances or even have no work to do. It also appeared at one farm meeting I attended, the Eyjafjörður farmers found in Hiden, just north of Akureyri, which was a very important meeting where I felt that farmers were half-handed and that they did not discuss the matter honestly. However, this happened after a meeting, in the lobby of a gang town, in my conversations with several farmers, and as a result of telephone conversations with a number of farmers who have described their concerns. There are many sheep farmers and even. in these sick areas that I mentioned earlier, but other diseased areas are also, as they are clearly very unhappy with this contract and what it says and are concerned about how this will be implemented for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u36	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller for his committee opinion and debate, which, by no means, reflects just his good mind and work on this important matter. What I would like to say in return to his talk is perhaps to adopt the desire for the specific community support and what he discussed. in his story about him. Of course, a new form of support in itself is being developed, so the ones he worries about are calmed down. The other thing I would like to mention about decommissioning the production management system and the debate that has been caused by it, because in his background it was found that some way in which a person has been initiated, decommissioned the production management is a big matter in that it can also result in a great waste. There we have in itself only taken a very powerful course in the European Union after the release of the production management programme last year. In contrast, in the news at home, the European Union does not eliminate the production management in any way other than transfer it to the manufacturers of the cohesion organisations, and by the news and news sources that I have good access to, the European manufacturers are now taking up their own law code, so the creation control continues. I believe that manufacturing control will need to remain. I'm also saying that the changes made in support form in the topic contracts that we discuss are aggravated to separate the supporting forms and the production management. So I'd like to have some. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller to discuss his mind on manufacturing management and its decommission.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u37	V.E.G. President. Only on the production control at the moment. The chairman of the case makes a subject and asks me about it. I can say that I've been swinging a bit in and out of it since the arrival and after a discussion about the matter. In this regard, too, it was said that Laxamsalaan, and it was found in the accounts of the Radial Sales in Destructor, that in 2015 she wished for more milk to be produced by farmers and offered to buy it all together. That happened in the second part of 2015. The chart of these two associates shows that this is part of a loss on the one hand, caused by increased loads of milk. However, it has been observed and discussed, and it has also been observed at the end of which I was surprised to see that for the excess in milk, Lactsamals pay less than 20 cents per liter than other milk. I think that came later, after that encouragement. But the manufacturing process, yes, no doubt it needs to remain something, but there is another aspect of the die that I quoted here, in the excellent presentation of the Haraldur son of Benediktsson, then the president of the Bavour Association, at a meeting of the Syndicate, where the breakfast handle was the most inconsistencies in accounting and billmaking of farmers in Iceland and Scandinavia. Then there's a question that can be expressed, though I don't have the answer to put out, to the why. Councilman: How do we stop what the Bavors'organization was going to start with? Perhaps, a respectable president, I have some time later in return to discuss what was discussed earlier, which I considered to be the main condition of sheep breeding, i.e. about the regional support. I'll try to find out later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u38	Madam President. Again, I call attention to what I said in the beginning in response to what I said. This approval is being carried out by a member of the Parliament. The task, to reduce the expenses of the farms because of that factor, is in itself only built into the contract. Hv. A member of his committee body came to another point, with special interest in sheep'flocks and the affairs of sheep farmers. What I would like to hear is: He made up the publicity of exports and the low value of sheep products and the high productions. We have many opinions, but we have created the industry this frame, have told her: "You are supposed to make the most of the domestic market, then you are to take what is more widely available in a foreign market, and it is to give you this and it is to become the global market price. The reality is that at the turn of the 2007 sheep contracts, a respected president of the United States, Icelandic farmers were given world market prices on sheep products. It is swinging, and it reflects, in part, the great difficulty they are in right now. But to cope with that as a matter of course. A senator in his committee party must return to the eating process, the production of sheep, the production of sheep, if the senator would like to declare it as a counterargument to what he was criticizing in his committee party and his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u39	V.E.G. President. The fact is, during the recent domestic contracts, overproduction has failed to achieve the target of some late development. It shows the tables from the Ministry I've been quoting in here and are published as part of my committee document. It's been growing. And what I'm afraid of is that it's growing. My research and concerns of farmers include The fact that many cow farmers, dairy producers, who have few cows in foose and not a lot of food may even think about making a move to sell that salaries now before the state starts buying at the next year, if it sells them at an acceptable price for which farmers need, some may be newly bought or known to a god; that they will move from milk production and increase in sheep farms. Therefore, my projection is that the figures we are currently working on are producing quantities and domestic consumption and exports, that the amount will increase, and the internal consumption will not increase to any extent, though hopefully, but that the need for exports continues to increase and prices that we receive from exported sheep products, even as I am making a subject of my committee's party. But only at the end of what was presented here for regional support to be implemented, it is in 2017 99 million, 2018 145 million, and the same 2019 as then equal to this 10-year contract period. This is the amount of money set in there, which a building agency is designed to use for the noble goals that I and I have. paritaprevir Össur's son's Skarphéðinsson spoke of, because his questions to me in a short answer were about what needs to be used to strengthen sheep making in the weakest areas of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u40	Madam President. We'll talk about hardware contracts and farm contracts. I'm here recommending my Section 2. And I'm going to move it and then just to swaddle these cases in general. Another lower part feels that if the bill becomes legal, there will be some changes in the European Agrienvironment. The bill includes the legal adjustment to implement the provision of agricultural contracts signed in February 2016 and is a contract for the working conditions of milk production, the contract for sheep farming, the contract for the job conditions of the manufacturers of the agricultural products, and the general labour conditions of the agricultural industry. It is also linked with an unbreakable proposal for the resolution of the contract of Iceland and the European Union, i.e. The toll agreement, as well as the position of the left green to this in a special committee sheet, which includes several important factors being criticized, is specifically identified by a psychiatrist's warning that spread of germs and antibiotics resistant bacteria are among the major health problems of the day. Such infectious agents include with fresh food and is considered at risk of their increasing import to this country leading to increased problems of this kind. Another lower part of the country considers it important that food production for domestic consumption is carried out on this country as much as the circumstances allow and that public funds may be protected to support this sustainable goal. Official support for agrienvironment schemes has a long history here and is an important part of the agricultural work programme. The introduction of food production involves the interests of all the people of the country, and it is therefore crucial that farming agreements be successfully prepared so that a broad agreement can be reached on this important part of the Icelandic economy. Just because of the variety of the effects of domestic agreements, they are always difficult to make. The market agreements influence urban development, rural and urban activities, agricultural production and prices, food security, sustainable society, loyalty and public health, to name something. Thus, market agreements are much more than agreements between public and farmers, as some claim, and it can rightly be said that their influence is common in the community. In the end of 2016 and 2017, open farming contracts will run their course. So, in February, new agricultural contracts and equipment contracts between the Icelandic government and Iceland's Farmer Association were signed after the negotiations and were later approved by the contracts. They were made in advance of the necessary legal rights of the Generals, one of which is authorized to make such debt. Government officials took care of the market agreements made with farmers on their own, without working together on that task in a government official. Limited if any consultation seems to have also been made with other relevant parties, and is critical, as well as to the fact that the current agreements are soon to be expired when new ones are due. There is, of course, an important preconceived nature for all jobs, but this is quite appropriate in the case of agricultural production based on a long manufacturing chain. Where consultation and cooperation were lacking, the government is responsible for the terms of the government's agreements and the implementation of the case from beginning to end. A number of reports have been received to the General for the matter, and much has been discussed in public. As expected, opinions have been divided, but criticism has been made of the length of the contracts made up of ten years old, and contributions to agriculture have been made as well as a plan to cancel production management into milk production. Then the deal of sheep has met with considerable opposition, especially in the traditional sheepfolds and in which sheep farms are a major work. Many fear that they can move from these regions to other regions because of the impact of the contract as well as that growth in production can produce overproduction of lamb and other sheep products on the market. It has also been described as a concern that consumer interests are served and not considered sufficiently on environmental issues in the Icelandic or international context. In particular, these include climate impacts, sustainable land use, and other challenges. Several other aspects of the contract have come under criticism, such as the lack of competitiveness in caring for dairy products. Not all lovers will be traced here, but some have been proposed to be missing so that the market agreements serve the objectives of sustainable agriculture and domestic food production for the community based on environmental opinions, animal success and loyalty practices. In this context, the Treaty should state between the manufacturer and consumers and an efficient and trustworthy source of information. The left movement ◯ green tenders highlight sustainable land use in their agricultural policy and consider it important that the public's contributions support such goals. Self - destructive thinking, in fact, hides. In the absence of renewable resource use, it is lost or disappeared. The usefulness of renewable resources is therefore important to set baits to avoid harming the Member States so that the resource of this resource goes right into the courtyard. The agricultural agreements on the use and protection of vegetation would need to be more clear, and it is important to plan for land healing and to map crops in terms of its use capacity to succeed and become new in government agricultural policy. Where there is a need to ensure that the use of natural resources will be sustainable, whether products are consumed within the country or in the foreign market. It should be noted that with the rights of the existing contract, the objective of the 1991 agricultural agreements is permanently removed and should be aimed at supporting agricultural production in domestic agricultural consumption. A direct link between farmers and domestic consumers developed to the common interests of these groups by maintaining domestic agricultural products that now travel the courtyards, with a large part of the preparatory agreement that attracts sheep. It is important that clear agrienvironmental policy be met and carried out, including by submission of public agricultural contributions to follow-up goals in this field. Farming is very important in the context of environmental and climate issues. The article has significant environmental and climate impacts, some of which are negative but also have more and more effective potential for positive action in this field than many other sectores. The production of agrienvironmental products near consumers reduces pollution and other environmental pressures from transport and vegetation contributes to carbon binding. Of course, the use of renewable and environmental energy in agriculture is very important and must be done by all means. Farm agreements with the above targets should be more and more specific than they are, although they are certainly a major challenge to the management of the case on a job committee. However, a smaller portion of this section gives good reason to do better and suggests that a team of consultations will be established to assess the environmental impact of the agricultural agreements according to the environmental assessment methodology and the results of the evaluation will be updated at the review of the Treaty in 2019. A lower proportion is glad that organic agrienvironment schemes are increasing and that they will be strengthened for the adaptation of organic production. Although the use of various more dangerous chemicals that are commonly used in agriculture has been at a minimum here, the trend here is likely to be similar to that in many Western countries, thus increasing the demand for organic products by consumers. It must therefore be competitive for the European agriculture to follow this trend, and important for the sake of, and also for the environment and loyalty of making a good living in this field of growth in this country. Thirty-four. A bill that became an animal's health law, No. 55/2013, was originally ordered to cancel public funds for agriculture to those who sinned in the regulations and regulations of the law, as well as in other specific treatments. However, this law fell under the changes made by the employment committee, including the Management Board. On the basis that this consumption process is not supported by current agricultural and agricultural treaties, the Commission pointed out that, as the president says, it is not appropriate to create space for the uptake of the waste on subsequent occasions, e.g. to re-evaluate equipment and agricultural shapes and to re-create agreements on the basis of these measures. Under this point, 2 memory takes effect and shows the difference. in order that the action that would allow the application of such a pressure may include poor treatment of animals also known as zoonism. The less relevant points agree with the current employment board, which considered the management to be normal, and in line with the requirements that can be considered reasonable to be the standard for government data to treat treats that involve the provision of public funds. Another lower point points out that now there is an opportunity to introduce this principle of pressure and to feel that the monarchy is going to use it. Thus, 2nd smaller objects contribute to the adjustment proposed by that material. It was evident that by the mid - August, when the Council met that there was no greater share for approved domestic agreements, they were actually the government's way of conducting such a long - term commitment at the end of the council. Thus, the employment board was in a difficult position at the beginning of a late conference with such urgent and important issues in turmoil and a very short period of time. A lower portion of the section feels that positive efforts have been made in the work of the employment committee in correcting the situation and tailoring it to a number of neglects, with less than 2 less items involved in that work. However, many important aspects of the content and implementation of the agreements are still to be addressed so that they can serve well as tools to shape and support agrienvironmental policy that will take into account the interests of farmers, consumers and environments and look for ways to integrate them for benefits to the community of the whole and nature of the country. In view of this, 2 smaller things do not seem to be able to support the situation, and they will sit behind its payment, yet they support more of the workaholics that are available to improve. Under the heading, the writer writes the following: Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir. In a follow-up with the Commission opinion, agrienvironmental policy is the left movement ▪ A green offer that I encourage all to study. I'm also going to explain to you the changes in the proposal that comes with a committee study from a smaller part of the employment committee. First of all: ◯ At 12. Add a new paragraph, as follows: It is permitted to cancel payment on those who have grossly or repeatedly opposed the animal's legal requirements, No. 55/2013, with subsequent changes And second of all: We're on the 12th. It's a log. on deck. 1592 will add a new paragraph, as follows: At the same time as the order of the consultation group, the minister shall appoint a group to assess the environmental impact of the domestic agreement by environmental assessment methodology, cr. Law No. 105/2006. The task force provides a minister of the environment report to be no later than 2019, which includes the key to the review of the labour agreements. This is how the Committee's opinion reads 2. smaller things. I'd like to add that I feel that since a meeting in August, I've been tried to correct the situation on a professional committee. Of course, it has to be said that, as it is said, the initial failure to call others, the lack of extensive consultations on the preparation of a stock agreement, and the highest. Aggressor has not used the opportunity to call others to the table to try to make a greater agreement on national market agreements, both government opposition and other bodies. I think it's important to do so, because although this is a contract between this article and the State, of course they have far - reaching effects. I believe that the whole case is a good thing to continue to be as positive to the state of agriculture as it is and that the general population in the country sees that it returns in so many ways to consumers and matters about e.g. environments that we are as sustainable as we can be in the food production here. This is important for food security and for the country's habitation. You could say that agricultural contracts are one of the biggest rural operations in real life because it all hangs out. The rural areas are important to towns and villages. All of this is one chain all over the country. It also spreads into larger communities if it works in rural areas. Many communities, say just like this to us, Civilnes, and other locations, the sheep of the year, could be named Seleucus, and we can go elsewhere, serve the agricultural sector, and in these areas there is an enormous amount of work that would not be compared to sight if agricultural equipment were to be added to us, and we can make a success of it. This is part of our social and social efforts to be content and to cultivate our own gardens and look a little bit for short-term interests, to be healed in importing as much of the cheap agricultural products abroad as possible, and to lose our hands of self-sustaining food production. It is not easy to rely on the level of change between imported foods, quality, additives, and drug use, and the like. All of this is important, that we produce in this land a clean and good product, and it is short between production and consumer. I think Icelandic consumers are always seeing better and better that it is important to have a powerful agricultural product in the country. But they also want something to say, and support takes them where they should return. We have, for example. heard these days of great concern that sheep are greatly reduced in their products. It's a chain, of course. There are Marketing Authorisation Holders that report a reduction in yield. Farmers and products deal with the big shops and shopping chains for agricultural products from farms such as lamb. It is always a question of how the prices of the product are from a farmer to close the minute sales point, where the profits are made, and who is stuck with negative prices when there is a recession. It is not normal, of course, that it will always be on top of its source if the cost of operating is increased or the natural cost is rising, only in harmony with what is normal, it happens in a regular way. It is not normal that it is merely the original producer who takes the reduction when the big profits in the big shopping chain, such as these have been called, Höms, and more shopping chains, that provide billions of profits. It must be a matter of concern to consumers whether it is not normal that in the end the retailer gives them more profit to the founders, puts them in their pockets, or goes to consumers. This I think is something that needs to be examined and challenged, how the price of the product is formed, and how there is a switch between middlehands, each gets its share, and that the farmer does not always stand up to be cut down on Trog, and in reality has very little management security or a small guarantee of living once as a minimum wage in the country. There has to be some foundation to build on, but in this relationship there seems to be no bottom line in that subject. While some reference price is given on the grounds of farmers, the reduction in yields is at a rate of 10 to 12 percent, which means a 25% decrease in pay as shown in the case of an authority. I'm all for making a cross deal with farmers. I believe they have to live with a measure of long-term safety. Many of the framework agreements presented here are good, really steps in the right direction, and many good things. But there are also many factors that must use this time to review in three years so that sheep cannot be treated badly, e.g. in peripheral areas where people struggle to continue their business and need a vision of the future and a guarantee that money will be placed in winter, as it is said in rural areas. I hope that the board of consultations to give the order to have a good overall vision, not some narrow straw view of what can be achieved as much as those people who produce this product do not have to live as all of us, but see the article in national context. Lands are looked for and how support is most effective, including in the land to consumers, and what opportunity this article has and considered the impact of the agricultural contract on the country's housing conditions and long-term effects. All of this must be underlying. The results and effects of the livestock contract need to be seen for this long period of time on these articles in the country, on inhabitants, on consumers, and on how we make the best use of the funds they are talking about. In this context, customs agreements have also been referred to. It's a major factor in the livestock contract. There is great concern about its impact on national production on e.g. white meat and the risk of being poured across the market temporarily, inexpensive products that no one knows the source of the cost of domestic production. People have often talked about bringing in only the white meat produced in this country but apart from creating a number of jobs and caring for jobs in the country, it's a lot of environmental pleasure to produce this product in close contact with consumers than to transfer it to world seas. As we all know, we're being brought here by a chicken trick from Thailand and Vietnam, and there's a god knows where from. Of course, it all costs and pollutes, such transfers of the world. But I am glad that a professional health committee has been very involved in trying to fix this matter. Perhaps the minister who set out on this journey without any consultation is being reproached. This is a specific offense against him. But I believe that the Committee has done a very upbuilding job trying to fix this without renovating the entire contract, but at the end of the three years, farmers had the full chance of paying votes again. It will show whether there are any suggestions for changing the current contract. Whether there is a suggestion for change or what will be, I view it as saying: The contract goes back to a vote for review of 2019. I think there's something we have on all sides and with a variety of criticisms on this subject that we can enjoy. Then, at the end, I'm going to be a special subject to the executive of the greater part of the committee that I believe was well on this matter. [[Up front.]] and found others to be role models of such work. Of course, from where they are, men should put forth earnest effort to make good contact with members of other members of the council in such an important matter. While humans may not always agree, it is worthwhile to go out of our way and work to reach a good conclusion, since there is little progress if they are just going to rule alone and do not communicate. So I'd like to finally say this and thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u41	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's talk, and he can agree with it that, of course, it is very strange to start the contract policy once it is completed. I'd like to ask, though. A member of the Parliament only into its word and its left movement's direction of green farming initiatives. I was a little surprised to hear that. A senator spoke with regret about the manufacturing system and that production was attributed to domestic consumption. We live under the conditions now that the number of tourists is creating new opportunities for domestic agricultural production and it is very important to open this article and increase the market and allow producers to produce what they can, also to react to the failure of many areas where farmers could add to their production and competition. See what? A senator is really the one who harms farmers in their quality and production? I must ask, too, because of that. A senator did not mention this in his own case, about the use of the Galaxon's agreement from competitive law. Fucker's brother. A senator has described the violent actions of the Lacties against rivals as a particularly positive result of social ventures. This is the message the left movement is sending to the milk ager, such as the Eagle of Bolungarvík. A senator? Is it really so that the left movement, the left motion, would like to stick to the overmanagement system that does not guarantee adequate survival and consumers high costs and is not prepared to think of anything that can open or loosen this system?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u42	Madam President. There's a lot to say about manufacturing, and sometimes it can and sometimes it can't. At times, having some limitations will help those in this article. I think unregulated overproduction can often come to the head of both consumers and manufacturers. I know as much as in Europe did an overproduction that resulted in a collapse of prices. I think many European farmers are not too happy and do not survive from the low bottom prices they get for their productions. There is little future in having it that way, even if the price goes down and everyone jumps their height because they can buy cheap products, which reimburse many, and fewer people will be left behind. What does that mean? When fewer are left, it means more than not to keep up, then it comes back, and its product becomes even more expensive. So I think it's quite normal to be careful about encouraging people to produce and produce without having a vision of where it ends. It can mean that there will be a complete price and that a farmer has no chance of moving on. I would like that to be equal. I would've thought what. A senator would be an equationman and a result of an equation about farms, that farmers could get the same price for milk as consumers would get the same price for the milk anywhere in the country. I think it's good for one another, and it's kind of transporting, like the other. At one time at the General Assembly, a senator spoke about the matter. Regarding the eagle in my district, her representatives came to our house and said that they would never go into the collecting of milk themselves and were pleased to buy the milk from another company but would have her at a fair price, which I heartily accept. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u43	A respectable president. It was made clear on the job board that there is no essential prerequisite for a global collection of milk at the same time and distribution of milk across the country if the Radamsala is not taken out of competition. It was made clear that they do not need that kind of appointment. However, it is a front for this company in violent acts against rivals, small rivals. It is amazing to hear this status in which people wave over and over again a variety of different superstitions, saying that it requires the necessary release of competitive law so that basic duties can be placed on the Galactics and be rewarded for doing so. There's nothing to call for an exception from a competitive law in it. However, it is very strange to see those interpretations from members of the left movement, not necessarily since then. A senator but from her party brothers, that such violent operations are particularly positive inputs and segments of social management. [[The president calls.]] There's a bad name for a social business.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u44	Mr. President. In case of a moment. A senator can show that there is no need for extravasation from competitive laws so that milk can be collected and distributed at the same price far and wide around the country, it is fine if it appears. I'd like to have absolute guarantee that it is that way, but I don't want to make a decision every time. I am so tired that anything that turns to the country has to be picked up by instruments and tools and is about to go on my knees to get it. I think it's normal for us in this large country to have an equation system. If it is considered legal that this release from competitive law is not needed, I will not stand by it and fight for it. However, there is also a need to be expressed in agreement that it will do otherwise, and it will not be an intentional plan for MS. MS went far, far ahead. Of course, they were punished. They're supposed to say that others in production enjoy a strong market and that they can get milk at normal price, but I understand that they're taking steps in the direction of the proposed changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u45	Madam President. Thank you. Magnúsdóttir As well as for her testimony about fine work and cooperation on a professional committee that she has least, with all due respect to everyone sitting there, she put her weights on the scales, so to speak. It is quite safe to say, Madam President, that the work of the Parliament and how to work on committees and how to work objectively. I'll notice that two dogs. I don't know. I don't know what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Jr., has testified that the matter of Congress has made quite a move on the work of the committee and has made positive changes. What I wanted to pick up with the senator is her proposal to eliminate support for violations of the welfare of animals. Now I'm going to say that I'm never going to justify such a offense, but I'd like to reiterate it and that we'll discuss this proposal hopefully between 2 and 3. But doesn't the senator think it's important that we try that discussion? In the current law, food management agencies have a wide range of resources for delinquency, administrative fines and to the administrative scale which are actually very adequate to handle such offenses or such cases. In addition, there are only a few branches that have such support. Also, the question is, could not there be any discrepancies between habitats if one habitat could be removed by action that is to be taken in the suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u46	Madam President. Yeah, if I get to it right away. A senator concluded on our left green proposal that if there is a violation of animal welfare or animal care law, the producers of state support can be removed. As a work on the animal welfare law, this was mentioned in the discussion that it had to be called upon to deal with farm agreements, they needed to be replaced. Of course, this is not just another industry. Rather, it is a trade that has part of the government's support. The Kingdom must also be responsible for where and how the payments are going and should not, of course, feel that they are in the hands of someone who breaks the law, in this case the animal's welfare laws. I am well aware that the Food Organization can use governmental fines and has a warrant for action that can be used in those areas. But I think we're supposed to go further and make it stronger that in this contract that we don't want to tolerate animal abuse. Sad to say, it may often be spiritual illness, as well as other factors that are going on. Of course, it is necessary to help the person through it. But in this connection, I'm not talking about how it should be taken to the point where animals don't get food or something like it. I believe that it should, of course, be the most humane way of doing all this in the case of both the operator and the animals he thinks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u47	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I was impressed by her statement that it was difficult to do so. Great suffering has very rich authority to handle such issues. I have a suggestion. The senator's interest, and we'll take a closer look. I'm going to draw back to the fact that this could create a mismanagement between farmers and between animal owners, where some habitats will not be supported while others have the support involved. But we'll go over it later. In a board of committees, that's what's happening. A senator, by permission of the president, was introduced: It should be noted that with the existing agreements, the aims of the 1991 agricultural agreements are permanently removed and should be aimed at promoting agrienvironment schemes for domestic agricultural products. So I ask. A member of Parliament: The reality is that since the early year 2000, the production of the sheep's flocks had actually been changed. I think we have to talk a little bit clearly in this regard. Is the senator proclaiming that in order to cope with the work being carried out in the committee opinion, a re-employment of the production management of sheep sheep's flocks is needed? [[The president calls.]] I think there must be a much clearer place than such a vague expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u48	Madam President. Of course, these are main concerns about being too supportive of products that are being sold abroad. It may be appropriate to recall that in 1991 livestock treaties, supported by the national accord, support was directed toward the domestic production and, in effect, replaced by exports. It has now been observed that there is a large part of the less than 5 billion that are supported by the production of one third of the sheep'flocks that goes abroad. About 30% goes to export, so it tells itself that it's spreading over there. I think this is something we need to consider in this context, and it's totally normal. [[The president calls.]] Even if I'm not offering a manufacturing regime, we still need to look at it and take it into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her commission and for her cooperation on a professional committee. Like what? A senator said that there is a very special spirit in a professional committee, where all the young lie down to find a solution to the situation. Also, I can say the word "what." A senator to the front man on the case, huh? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, has done very well in this, and has been fine with him in his work and the patience he displayed. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir was very special. Hence, it must have been a real disappointment. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson at the moment. paritaprevir Next, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir jumped off the wagon when it was due to be signed. No, I'm not in. So I have to say, it must have been a real disappointment. A senator just like me. I know why. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir wants the agriculture. I'd like to ask her, because she hasn't really missed this amount. While this agricultural contract is taken or opposed, few talk about whether they feel that these levels are too high or too low. This year's expenditure is about 12.8 billion and goes to 13.7 billion next year, 2017, with an end to 13.6 billion. Got it. A senator's work is too much for farmers to do, or does she feel that this is too low? Or does she just agree on this amount, that it's the least amount, and that it's okay with her? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u50	Madam President. It's nice to listen to the figures that some special patience was needed in cooperation with me. I think that's what we're talking about. The head of the committee does not agree with him in that regard. Even if we are not of the same category, we are both very patient and able to discuss matters. That's not what came with the conversation that I was going to join the Independence Party. But I think that's right, and that's what the candidates don't know, to consult. It may be what the Independence Party is doing right now, dragging the advance party up on the ears of this job and having partners that should have been done before the contract was signed. But okay. I have not criticized the amount of money there is. I think it is more important that they use the article as such, not involved, and do not come to overhags. I want this support to end up in consumer pockets and end up with farmers and this territory so that it can grow and thrive. That's my opinion on the matter. I've not been criticizing that amount, but it's about where they land, how they work, and that it's good for all of us as a community. That's my view of that amount. I don't think there's anything wrong with supporting the Icelandic agriculture if it returns to us all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer is happy that she does not feel too busy. But another thing, although it wasn't directly discussed, the customs agreements, I want to hear her opinion of the change and the increase in customs in agricultural products, these are high numbers, and whether they're not afraid of them. Bull's meat, it's 100 tons of salmon today, it goes in the next four years to 700 tons, pork from 200 tons to 700 tons, birds from 200 tons to 856 tons. [[Take it up to 1056, bring it in.]] Yeah, okay, 1056 tons. I want her to feel comfortable with this increase, and because she's well - equipped for the agricultural business, whether or not she's afraid of this import for the farm. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u52	Madam President. Yeah, I'm just really worried about this huge import on that product, and I'm very at odds with the existing customs deal. It's the highest. A government for what? A senator supports that contract, and his minister. I'm very critical of the customs contract as it looks, and I don't think it's a benefit either for agriculture or necessarily consumers. More often than not, though the import is increasing and tolls are not necessarily for consumers. History has shown that there's money between ships and docks and land in the pocket of the department store more often than not. So I agree wholeheartedly, and it would have been good if it were. A senator and his party would have tried to stop the preparation of this tax agreement at the time of his death.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u53	Madam President. This is where I come up to explain our appreciation for these livestock contracts and the laws needed to alter the agreements between former Ministers, Sea Eliminar and Agriculture Ministers, and farm farmers - we prefer to suggest that these contracts be dismissed, and that extensive consultations will be conducted before we legalize any changes in the agricultural system. It's starting backwards, and I find that the more part wants to first legalize a new deal with everything that goes with it and then ask for an opinion. I think that's a very strange procedure. On February 19, 2016, the bill for change in agricultural legislation is proposed to legalize the changes to the law. With recently made agricultural contracts, it is not created the fixation and foreseeability necessary for an equally important profession. The aim of the contracts is also in many ways unclear, for at the same time as the global agricultural sector is being promoted by increasing production and diversity of products are being added to the market-based status of the market and the implementation of exporting of agrienvironmental products. This is done in spite of the signs that we now see very visible, that sheep farmers are like sheep. getting a shrink, there's a price reduction to farmers of 10 to 12 percent because we're having trouble selling out and because we're getting stronger. But the same arrangement is to be maintained here and to be added. This aims to spend a lot of money on a wide range of aspects of this area and to support a long - term arrangement without consultation with key stakeholders in the community. That's what we think in a short future, with absolutely unacceptable. Fifty reviews were received from various stakeholders. It is evident that most of the big stakeholders involved were not consulted. A number of comments present significant concerns about the lack of consultation and maintenance of long - term agricultural policies that are not covered by consumers, taxpayers, employees, employers, and other stakeholders. Section 3 estimates that new contracts should be replaced and replaced by current contracts. The scheme should not be postponed. That's what needs to happen before legalization. A smaller 3rd share of this suggests that the current contract will be extended and that once new contracts are started in agreement and cooperation with all stakeholders and a clear political view of the future of Icelandic agriculture. Then I'll only discuss the awards Committee, because it's still with people. I'm going to go through how it's been doing. In the mid - 2015 work, the law - enforcement body was assigned to the prices committee, which had already reported on the Commission. Its leaders were that, in the light of changing attitudes and circumstances, including because there has been a greater demand for dairy products than beds within approved dairy cows and that cow farmers have expressed the willingness to disappear from public prices on dairy products, it would be clear that any planning milk production, including the use of prices, would have to be revised. This will be a problem, and we want to stay on board, for in the new market agreements it is suggested that we continue to maintain the old form of having the prices committee, e.g. in milk production. The competitiveness department is taking so deep in the years to argue in its review that the bill needs a thorough review in order to ensure public interest. Of course, those are a little heavy and strong words, and we need to understand what they mean. The SEC says that these agricultural treats do not guarantee public interest. In other words, this is an agreement on special interests. This will not be short for the future at all. That's why we want to dismiss the case. This includes: that the bill contains regulations contrary to the principle of competitive law, regulations that are without condemnation in other legislation, and penalties under other circumstances. Is there a problem? 3 mg. 13th par. and 71nd pars. the current legislation requiring consultation and agreement between products and changes in the above 13 paragraph. which establishes a consultation on prices, which, in all cases, was considered illegal by competitive law. The majority of the Committee does not suggest any adjustment or adjustment in this situation for the benefit of the general public. A bright future does not seem acceptable to the Council to approve the bill in the current form. The goal of competition is to protect the interests of the common people. The law is designed to counteract excessive obstacles and restrictions on professional freedoms, to counteract harmful competition and competitive behavior, and to facilitate the access to new market rivals. The bill violates all of these principles in which the sources of cooperation, consultation, and cooperation with the Marketing Council would be legalized and worthy of agreement. It also covers the quantity of the market company products authorised to sell its own companies and thus prevent competition. Even if the changes made in the greater part aim to increase the roof from the previous proposals to this bill, the legal rules allowing harmful competition and compression on this market are still valid. This, of course, is unacceptable. Farming needs to be conceived and maintained in a competitive market. A work programme that is paid by public funds will need to agree with stakeholders and be based on social views that take into account all stakeholders. A bright future suggests that with a review of the case and a new domestic agreement, there is an opportunity to ensure farmers the maximum price for their products, that goods and prices to consumers will be assured and that such agreements and their implementations can be settled so that the principle of competition also be followed. Recent reports of one - sided decision made by the MAH to reduce the price of sheep farmers by 10-12% have been surprised and the farmers have criticized their hard intentions, i.e. Marketing Authorisation Holder, we're considering past problems with the past, cost and pay raise to farmers. A smaller third part of the work committee considers that by reviewing the domestic agreements, the interests of all concerned are being cared for, and particularly in farmers. Then I'll just take what has been said in their speeches. senators who before me spoke. In this regard, the support of sheep farmers was being discussed, as I have been doing. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller spoke a lot about regional support to sheep farmers, who are expected to make arrangements to meet the weakest settlements and give them increased support. The ideas are on the way to the farther away they are from the market, the more supported they will be. The argument for what I really appreciate is that because people live so far away from a shop, it's hard for them to get another job, so they need more support. It's all right. I don't object to it. But I find it very remarkable, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are creating a setting and taking as a share that sheep farmers must do other work in order to make ends meet. I come from sheep's farm. There was no large sheep farm. There were then about 350 sheep. It wasn't 10% work to do. Of course, my parents could not have that farm alone, people working with others. I think we need to stick around for a second. I think we need to support agriculture in the country, let's get it straight. But it does not matter how it is done. If the situation is that sheep farmers must always be working on something else to make ends meet, are we not in the wrong direction? Don't we need to take a closer look? This is not acceptable for people. It is like a student who has to work with a student. Of course, people do. But it would be best if they were to spend all their time and energy doing the study. And it would be best for sheep to run their flocks well enough and not have to be trying to make ends meet. I wanted this to happen because it's taken for granted. Only organic products. The demand for organic products has multiplied in recent years. True, the bill involves increased support for organic farming, but the incentive for such growth is not sufficient at all. No policy for organic farming has been established, and it is sadly not. Such policy needs to be targeted, and the support of organic farming has to be multiplied to keep us in line with other northern countries in this respect. The bill does not make any effort to assess the extent to which the Icelandic product is environmentally compatible compared with comparable productions abroad. It's a lot of talk, but there's no measurement here. For this reason, measurement of carbon footprints is required to evaluate whether and by what means commercial support will contribute to environmental production. The bill includes continuing support for the export of agrienvironmental products, which is supplied with the public taxpayer's taxpayer in form of bone rent or relocating. In other words, there's going to be an extra stock payment. As we have seen, a industry paid by public funds must be based on social views and economic benefits. It is not acceptable for European taxpayers to produce agricultural products that are sold abroad. To build a market abroad using Icelandic agricultural products, the industry must be on its own. I simply think we're on the wrong track there. We say to sheep farmers, and this deal says, "We'll raise the payment, and you can produce more so we can sell out more. But what is reality? Selling out won't go well. Product prices are lowered to a farm that continues to produce more so that the reciprocal effects continue to decline. It is the most simple, simple version of the available economic formula. I can't figure out which economic books the Director has read. The bill does not take into account the condition of the country, and there is high support in areas where land quality can be relaxed. In addition, an increase in the number of stocks can encourage an increase in sheep without considering that the situation in the provinces and parts of the country may be fragile. It cannot be seen that with the contracts, an attempt is made to reduce the use of affected land or wasteland. A greater proportion of the employment board cites a framework of the agricultural general working conditions and predicts the assessment and monitoring of the state of plant resources. It is true that this is merely a topic for assessment of plant resources by compiling studies on the subject and applying further research. No attempt is made to explain the plans to protect and protect land and to promote sustainability. Official financial support for a whole sector must be based on sustainable land use, where vegetation and soil erosion is one of the most serious environmental problems in Iceland. A bright future would like to increase the emphasis on agricultural support, especially to follow the government's global climate management programme and commitments. This will increase the variety of Icelandic agriculture rather than focus on specific habitats, as the agreement shows. In other words, let us strengthen people to do what they want to do in agriculture. I don't feel that these four contracts have control over this -- yes, there's a frame deal that defines a goat and something like that, but how are we here and people in the Ministry, with all due respect, to have complete ideas about what farmers want to do? The bill does not anticipate a review of official support for agricultural production if farmers are to be exposed to repeated treatments of animals. A bill on the treatment of animals submitted to the 141th legislation proposed that if we violated the law, we would be a food management center, which has a controlled animal role allowing public funds to be turned into agriculture for repeated violations and to avoid being reproved. That law was canceled from the law, including Because of the opposition of Iceland's Farm Group to the directive. The main evidence was that such a suggestion was contrary to goods and equipment laws. A smaller portion of the 3rd feels that such reasoning is not a barrier to taking up this kind of law, which means that it has to be taken up only by other laws. It is reasonable and reasonable to give public financial support to acceptable treatment of animals. Although more than a part of the employment committee assumes that a small change in the management of customs is expected which aims to be less than expected, if I recall correctly an increase of about 150% but is now assumed to be a 70% increase, these changes in agricultural shape will still lead to a toll increase in cheeses. In less than 3 less ways, consumer interests are still preconceived, and this is unacceptable. A bright future has provided the bill that tollovators will not be offered, as the costs for the exports go to the prices, as we always see. A third smaller section considers changes to be made in the majority of the committees of the summer for improvement and suggests that consumers are required to receive clear and accurate information on the origins of the food offered for sale and to enforce sole ban on misdirection of consumers with false or inexplicable meanings and advertisements. It is very important to speed up the implementation of Regulation on source label No. 1337/2013, the rules for the implementation of European Parliament regulations and the Council No. 1169/2011. It is a pleasure to agree with many arguments in the Bjart's disclosure proposal, and it is given into consideration in many conflicting debates, which are still negative. In terms of Section 3, changes in the majority of objects are entirely insufficient and should therefore be dismissed. The matter is still maligned, and much of the quality of the one to be improved is missing only through a comprehensive review and consultation. A bright future has repeatedly called for such consultations, and before the launching of agricultural contracts in 2014, if not before, and now seems to be a well - thought - out. Icelandic agriculture and diversity cannot wait for three years for the overall review of the majority of the employment committees to suggest, as there is no suggestion of a major share that will ensure good results and improve the environment of consumers, farmers and other manufacturers after that time. I'm gonna use a little time to cross the check-in. She's on 13 of our team and she's taking care of the things I was discussing. I'm gonna go over there fast and read it up, with the permission of the president. Since this has been observed: a. The labour contracts signed in advance are very controversial both within and outside, as well as the changes in agricultural legislation proposed to meet the agreements, which require significant changes in the bill and therefore, the basis for the agreements to be smiling, b. 'Agricultural agreements were not addressed to important stakeholders, such as consumers, employee, trade and services, employers and various institutions of the state, such as land healing and competitive authorities,' c. The reviews of the bill reveal a great deal of opposition to such long - term commitments in the state, and such a ten - year commitment must be based on greater agreements than rich for the agreements that are available to result in substantial sums, d. it is not expected that this exception from competitive legislation, allowing dairy products to come together without involvement of competitive authorities, will be removed but will work against the interests of consumers and those who want to win the course of the article, e. it is not expected that the exception from competitive legislation on the price fixing of dairy products is not expected, but consultations of this kind are all as harmful to consumers as no evidence to allow this in this sector alone, f. in Level 4. The bill suggests that products will be prohibited from selling more than 5% of the milk they receive, but by competing on this market and by maintaining the single-piercing status of the current market adviser, to be made up of more than 20%, I think. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! The role and responsibility of the price-making committee are not clear, and the arrangement is not designed to motivate producers to increase competitiveness and production and reduce prices to consumers; to this point, I refer to what I said in the past about the willingness of cow farmers themselves to abandon this arrangement. Why are we not listening to it? ▪h. The bill suggests a large rise in amplitude of imported cheese and milk powder, but such measures increase prices to consumers, weaken Icelandic industry, and contribute to reduced product selection, i. Interacting 1 1. g. The principle of competition and regulations in agricultural products is in many ways unclear, such as in the duties of the Marketing Council of the enterprise, the terms provided by the breaking of the marketing centre, the integration of products and other cooperations, j. Bioproduction incentives are not sufficient for the changes proposed in the bill, to be considered as too small a step that is being taken in this bill in this respect. No, no, It is not expected that state support may be cut or dropped by serious violations of animal welfare laws, although the employment committee has been given the last treatment for change in agricultural law (s) encouraged to review agricultural legislation to include such measures in the law, I. the existing contracts are not taken into account in the national situation and support is, for example, large in areas where land quality can be relaxed, as well as with a higher share of funding for the article going through remuneration, which has worked for the production sector and is not intended to protect vulnerable land, There will be increasing diversity in Icelandic agriculture instead of focusing on the specific habitats being done in the contract and a great increase would need to be an emphasis on agricultural support, it is suggested that the bill be referred to the government and be committed to extending existing agreements. We're not saying that a valid agreement is a good one. We're saying, there's a question that needs to be asked first before we at the Council bring a law about this and that. That's a minimum catch. It is true that we have not yet done so. We're talking about 13 billion a year, and this is only done in some office upstairs at the Ministry. And now it's time to say, "You're right, maybe we should have asked somebody's opinion. Let's do it later when we agree. Where else but at the Council would such language be okay? Now that I've been through this deduction proposal, I've given her some good reasons. I think we're just starting to see what the future will have to do with this. Then I'm talking about our country's self-sustaining and practicality. I'm talking about the interests of farmers I really care about and want to see more. I don't think this deal is going to benefit farmers sufficiently. I believe that all ideas on how to improve the benefit of farmers in this contract are out - of - date and old - fashioned and have shown themselves repeatedly not to work. We're just starting to see how this new contract will affect consumers. We're talking about customs going to go up on cheese. Yes, people can be thrown in some warehouses of parmesan and mozzarella, but what? Will the Council begin to choose which special person we are going to move in here and make sure it's not the ones made in Iceland? Why is freedom of competition and choice not available in these market agreements? Why is that not an option? I am proud of Icelandic agriculture, and I am confident that he can fully meet demands in various fields as well as those in foreign lands. But people have to have a choice about what they can buy. What kind of therapy is that? I know there will be many senators here who will continue to buy their lamb, and the major majority of Icelanders will continue to do so because it is a good product. [[Up front.]] We should trust farmers. Their awareness of the quality of their production has increased dramatically, it is marketing of lamb as such. A mountainman's name and what's-her-name. We're gonna choose this. Let us do so, and let us also choose what comes from abroad without controlling it with customs and freckles.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u54	V.E.G. President. I thought it was in a speech. paritaprevir Björt of Ólafsdóttir guard various conflictes or contradictions. The opening words made it clear that farmers and agriculture should only be free competition, on their own. Then I later heard in her talk that she was not opposed to supporting farmers, just not this process. Then I'd like to know: What is the senator's interpretation? Now, everywhere else, you can see support for farmers. In two ways: subsidies and customs protection. I couldn't understand the senator as different from all this customs protection was old-fashioned and stupid. You could only import toll free cheeses from countries where this same agriculture is supported by customs protection and subsidies. What kind of competition is that? Of course, that is not a natural competition. Of course, supporting the agriculture may not necessarily be the exact form of the existing agreement. It can certainly be discussed. Is there a more reasonable process? Is there anything better? But it is quite clear that support for agriculture, an important industry, is essential to the production of the good meat we're subsiding with this contract to consumers to enable them to buy it. Doesn't that matter? That's what it's about, isn't it? We're supporting all kinds of business projects with tax appeals. We did it in the film industry last time, we do it in art and culture, a lot of money goes into subsidies. Because we feel that national interests are important. This support is supported by global interest, just as it is supported by other sectores. [[The president calls.]] And this has become only 1% of national production, as is the case in most parts of the European Union. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u55	A respectable president. Not wanting this agricultural contract, this farm contract, and, nevertheless, seeing the need to support agriculture in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u56	How?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u57	If there's any news for a reason. paritaprevir Hermies, Níelsson's son, it's fun to tell him. Toll protection. It has, for example. Show yourself, so I can answer a question. A senator, in the larval industry, at higher competition, reduced toll protection, has benefited from the article. The articles and products, for example, can easily compete with foreign products. People have chosen the Icelandic Greek, choose Icelandic tomatoes, past the other. And the clime is on its feet, and it thrives. I feel that keeping competition out of the way is a lack of faith in Icelandic products. It's completely unsuspecting. So you're saying this isn't good enough and that the competition won't be good for these products, it's gonna be blown off the board as soon as people can only about free heads run away. That's what this means. I have more faith in Icelandic agriculture than this. That's what we're doing. A senator, then, just disagree.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u58	V.E.G. President. I am a great supporter of competition. But I don't find any competition, natural competition, in that Icelandic farmers have to compete with subsidized and tax protected agriculture in Europe that transports these toll free. It's not a normal competition. All those cheeses can be brought in. They're just taxed. I think it's only natural that when we import products that are supplied from Europe that match the competition between that product and the Icelandic production. It matters. We are and have been in great economy for agriculture. The number of clients has decreased, from 1,800 to 600 in very few years. That's a lot of practicality. This must be done in steps. We can't take a giant leap and risk this industry. We can't afford to be foolish about that. A brief step at a time, let's develop this, progressively increasing the economy so that people can resist the competition better. We can then reduce the tolls and the competition becomes more natural. It is far better to approach them in this way. I realize, however, that this livestock contract may well contain many things we should discuss whether it is wise to do exactly this or not. But as far as this princely gesture is concerned, the profession is important. It's important that we have all over the country. The bees are part of the interior. This is also a security issue in all the tourism industry. We cannot allow ourselves to make decisions that can break this industry or make it even more difficult for us to do what is right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u59	Yes, now I say the second time I think normal, because I think that what. A senator may not have heard me before, to support the agriculture. But I demand free competition at that market. I think it's the lonely thing when we strengthen someone. We can't have double support here. It's not even good for the industry itself. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's view of perjuryism with consumers naturally, that it should tell them whether they can buy this cheese or the other or pay more for it, for foreign cheese, just make up for the household that is quite another cheese. I don't think that's normal. I feel that there may be a choice, and I think the Icelandic agriculture can totally depend on the comparison. I don't believe we stopped buying Icelandic agricultural products. Many of them are wonderful. It will continue. I reiterate that I find the lack of faith in Icelandic agriculture incredible in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u60	Mr. President. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that I've not been contacted by a marine eco-efficiency minister in this hall, either current or former. Even professional authorities would have had more discussions. Head of the 2nd, smaller part of the pro board, huh? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, has made a good account of our stand, and I refer to it in general, and to the things I don't come into my case or have time to do. But I'd like to add a few items. First, it is inevitable to recall that any criticism would be accepted at the highest level. The government was making this contract. It was not much, and it was closed off in a relatively narrow group, mostly in the forward - looking group. Of course, there are some blame for farmers too. They could have had a broader force on their part, which would have been better connected, causing political and professional agreements. It is also critical how late the work went for the government. It was a failure, and it is, in fact, first returning these contracts to the council in spring and fall when some of them were actually expired, others running out, and one year left of the sheep agreements. It is not a good practice to drag it into the future for such agri-environmental work conditions as some minimal presupervisability. Like what? Councilmen may be familiar with the long manufacturing chain, and they may be careful that they start milking cows or sending lambs to slaughterhouses. It doesn't just happen by snapping a finger. This is very important in this article, as is the fact that there is some improvement in the quality of the work. In the autumn months, the agreements were highly critical and led to changes. Thus, cow farmers, or at least a part of them, made virtually a rebel against what was intended in their original contracts and had causes that were hard to do because they received a clean reexamination principle of 2019. They may choose whether they want to continue down the road that the ten - year - old frame marks or stops, providing little changes until then. It was strange that the sheep'stock part of the contract did not make similar changes. But when sheep began to see the products, their dissatisfaction was very difficult in many parts. Thus, the changes made by professional road committees are happy that sheep farmers and gardeners, and the whole deal now enjoys a clean reexamination of 2019, and that is well. Especially were farmers in the main stock markets in the country who became fearful when they saw the proposals in front of them. There must be some sobering thought that opposition was the highest in the areas where people are the most dependent on sheep farms and where they are mostly a whole year's industry and live under income families; in the Strandastines, in the Netherlands, on the northeast corner, on Skaftfell Countys, in Hunsar County, and elsewhere. And so it was found when farmers themselves had to figure out what their lot would be, sheep farmers in these provinces, first Beachers and then North Germany, that during this 10-year contract, if all went unchanged, the region would lose 19% of its support, the main sheep farms in the country. This is because of the built - in water palaces or the requirement for economy. That is because the so - called 70% rule expires. And that is because when the system is opened and anyone can begin to produce and thus share in subsidies and support for each produced kilogram, there is obviously some of the growth of the production process. It dilutes the share of the others and cannot, according to the nature of the case, become different from that of the main stock market. The outcome is this. A similar conclusion was found from an independent review of this in Strandi County and Northern Germany, that support would decrease by 1 19% over the contract period. Was that the meaning? In particular, to reduce the support of areas that are best built on sheep'flocks to this day? And well to mark: These are areas in which bait conditions are generally good, and it is not necessarily wise to expect production to increase in other areas. It's, for example. fully aware that this agreement is a complete conversion from the current arrangement in terms of sheep farming. They're manufacturing. If, on the other hand, men transfer all their support to each fixed piece and, on the other, pay on each loaded kilo of sheep, you are certainly tempted to increase the amount. Put more money and send more to the slaughterhouse and get a larger portion of the pot. They are the Olympics, or the Olympics, of a particular budget. However, in the current contract, e.g. A 70% rule that acts more strongly on production than on the other. It's so it's enough to put 70% of the full payment market on, but you keep an intact bone payment, as long as you have at least 70% of fixed stock stock. This may be suitable for many older farmers or others who, for some reason, rift keep sails temporarily. The production goes down, but the income goes on. In my opinion, this is a rule that has worked very well in this system. Among other things, it can bridge the gaps while waiting for generations to be replaced on farms, etc. Is it wise to transfer all the support into production - inspiring support? Where did that wisdom come from? I'll stick around for a while. They were the ideal farmers here. Most people, at least in word, say they feel for farmers, perhaps especially sheepfolds, that their choice is not true, unfortunately, though there are differences within the group as well as anywhere else. What's happening this fall? Isn't there a 10% reduction in farm prices from the exit stop? Is it the right time, then, to go ahead and reduce the other income supply, the bone payer? What would it be now that sheep farmers see in the form of money most in the year other than bone pay, monthly in account? They deposit once a year and get an account in some noises, and most often the cost of manufacturing is already over. It's just that it's the bone payment that has basically guaranteed minimum survival. And I'm very thinking that to take them away is to be considered a special step of progress. I am. There's something else I've been sitting around in these contracts, which, of course, isn't quite new to me right now. It is their intention to take this ten-year trip to sink the full official support of national production. 1991 The agricultural system in Iceland was bankrupt. There were billions of debts on the export team, and there were hundreds of millions of debts on the Earth's benefits grants, etc. There was no political will left in the country to maintain the arrangement of raising enormous financial resources in order to subsidize the production into foreigners. This system was decomposed, exported, and concluded: Directing all the support of the State for domestic production. If they want to do so in addition to their export, they will do so for their responsibility, farmers, and crops. That held off for a long time. It was reasonable to point that every dollar from the state began to improve the quality of farmers and reduce prices to consumers. Bone pay was replaced by subsidies at a small sales point. I believe that this arrangement, in its foundation, provided well and Icelandic agriculture, would be like sight if men had not gone into these fundamental changes, which were certainly difficult and painful and even painful. took the production of sheep from within the country, and it went down to over 900,000 in the land. The production adjusted into a much closer context to the domestic market. And his support was involved. So when the milk industry began paying full price for milk, regardless of whether it was within the payment market or not, it certainly began to leak with the discharge of export or a bill in the sheepfold. But that does not mean that it is right to continue that way. I have asked: Who will respond after ten years when information is asked about how much government support goes into the exported productions abroad? Is it a third, 40%? Who will defend that system? I'm not sure people will know what they're doing here. The 1991 treaties were made on a broad scale following the national accord, supported by the labour market partners, and created a much better atmosphere for the years to come in this relationship, which, unfortunately, has in some way now been lost. I ask men to think very carefully before entering this course or walking that way to the end. They should at least going to a little study with me and Halldórsson about the state of the agricultural system that was before 1991. In the left, we miss a much closer and stronger link between the agreements with the environment. In fact, I don't understand why, in very few cases, the ideal opportunity here was that agriculture and government would come together and say, "Yes, we're going to, in fact. through this interaction and these contracts, to agree on meeting Iceland's objectives and commitments to climate. Farming can play an important role there. It is for him in himself. But it's as if they didn't know much about it when they were finishing these contracts. Yes, they can say that there will be a change in forestry plans and land - healing programs and things like that, but it should, of course, be done here. It should become part of this cooperation between the state and the agriculture, ambitious plans to contribute to energy change to agriculture, recovery of wetlands, planting forests on farms, land healings, etc. It would be by far the most natural means to make up for that in this large context of financial and contract relationship between state and article. But people have missed the opportunity that would have been good for both parties. Don't you see the opportunity for the agriculture to come and say, "We'll do a lot of work to do with this and this in the interest of the climate change? ' The government could have said, "We're in cooperation with the agriculture, " we're adding a lot to carbon binding, and so on. ' Of course, there are some good things in these contracts. I'm not going to reduce human efforts in a variety of ways, such as by supporting slightly more in organic farming, looking out for the goat population, or what it is. Support something recent with small regional support for the sheep farms. But it is all inaccessiblely weak and has little money in it. So let's not forget it, because we were talking about the ideal farmers, that this contract is still based on a special water palace, a special decrease that builds up to 10%. In other words, time is to be cut down directly on real - life support. One might say that they expect to be made more and more economically. But now it's been possible for farmers to keep at least one. this support to achieve its ideals something in the way of other classes in the country? Is it not to be forgotten that this is especially the factor in the class? Of course, the direct payment, or government support, is a large part of the survival of farmers, except, up to half of the population's gross income. If this is impaired, of course, unless you have faith that the products will make a huge increase in fortunes in the coming years. Is that likely? It's not in your hand. I'd like to mention, because there were some people talking about these contracts being completely reliant: how are they insured? They're insured by a consumer credit number. What does that mean? This means that if there is a financial growth in the country over the next ten years and there is a higher salary value than there is a level of consumption, it has a contract in particular that it does not gain money. In this regard, she is insured by an consumption of the price number, not a remuneration number. The country's cost increase will be as it is known when the purchase goes up more than the prices, when salary is rising more than the price paid. I wondered, " Didn't men make such a big deal of light when they left this important part of this trade in the country? ' I don't know. Of course, a professional health - care committee has shown efforts to correct the situation. It should be said. That's where I think it's the most important thing for this clean revision principle in three years. It's very important. It is also an important and excellent suggestion to make good use of that time in broad discussion on the issues of this important business, since it is. It is important for many reasons and is much larger in reality, but its scope might quickly indicate it. The right thing has been made to remind you of it here, e.g. The official support for agriculture in Iceland is now on an incredibly low level, compared with what it was not years ago, when up to 5% of GDP went into direct and indirect payments entered the agriculture. Now it's down to 1% and hardly even, half a percent more if we don't bring the customs protection. Economically, therefore, this is no imperfect human burden compared with what used to be the case. But what will we gain in return? We are preserved in the land, which is the foundation of many things other than agriculture. Would not traveling and its growth in large areas depend on the presence of people in the country? There are towns there. How many farms have changed to boarding homes or hotels in the last 10 to520 years? If there were no farm tourism, how would it be possible to find lodging in the South and in the province of Skaftfells? I think you should think about it. And so are many other consequences, since there are people in the countryside. They are built, and the possibilities and resources they are, are new. This is part of the nation's food and food security. We're fighting it by producing about half the country's food needs, barely getting it. Don't you worry that this ratio is reduced, and we'll still be more dependent on the import and the disposal that it can connect with our food and food? I would have thought so. Who will provide for the lost future if the rural areas are destroyed? Will anyone be the prophet that we are not losing anything? Apart from cultural, social, and emotional factors that include courtyards? You see, there is a great loss if people stop living in areas and knowing until, knowing the story, knowing the chemicals. Can receive visitors, show them, and be proud of their inheritance and culture. It's worth a lot of money, I think, to preserve Iceland that way, with cities and towns, but also rural groups. Let's just talk humanly about this. Is that how we want Iceland or anything else? I find it quite shallow under the spoken language of men who just take care of things by saying: "There's no problem, there's no Icelandic agriculture that's so nice and strong that he's just gonna get along with competition. The garden is called gardening, for example. That is correct, customs protection was taken away from gardening, but what replaced it? In the sixth hundred million in support of the government article to cope with the consequences of her losing toll protection. It was in the form of bone grafts for the manufacture of peppers, gurgles, and tomatoes, and in the form of a reduction in transport costs and electrical prices. And that is true, on which basis the gardening industry has been successful in producing marvelous products and expanding, growing species, etc. This is an excellent development in many parts of Icelandic agriculture. Actually, there's only one problem with agriculture in Iceland, and it's that the ideal farmers aren't good enough. That, of course, is the hardest. You'll need almost idealists to get your farm ready. It is difficult for newcomers to do so, if their parents are not simply going to equip their children to receive them. That's a fact. True, I might have added to other things that I would have liked to see dealt more severely with over the years, and these are the environment. The limited size of the quality management device built up in the current agreements does not bite very much. It would be desirable if a person could make rules and try to control where the production would take place, especially where pasture is used, more in line with the land. It has been achieved, the reduction of one sheep from 900 to 500,000 sheep, that horse bait is largely deconstrued, that winter bait is largely reduced, much more powerful, has been combined with this position. With warmer climates, of course, Iceland is healing on a large scale. We know that now. And the bear's actually making progress all over the country. Sadly, though, there are areas in which these areas are not quite good enough. We could do better in this regard. This deal only makes me feel like a good word in a committee party, puts enough on it. So it would have been a better idea. A professional health committee is to be commended for her efforts, and in some respects she has adapted this matter. We shall, of course, or I, support her change proposals which I think are to improve; I think they are all. [[The president calls.]] But in view of the many things I've done here, I will be sitting with my associates in the case, so the management parties must be responsible for the work of this contract and the products that they produced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u61	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's cognition for the sermon and his excellent appeal, which was presented in many ways as normal in his case, with good and strong knowledge of the background of the agricultural agreements and of the history of those organizations. There are two things I would like to contend with the senator in my answer to him. First, regarding the areas of the country that are primarily built on sheep'farms and the fears of many of us become ill because of this agreement and regulations. That's two things I want to say. For one thing, it is now almost at present in the draft of the Agency's proposal for implementation of special support based on new paths. Then, as mentioned earlier in our discussion, it is to look to farms that have the potential for professional living to depend on sheep or that depend more on sheep'breeding. On the one hand, I'd like to say that in this article the interest of recruits in sheep farming has been particularly high in recent years, four years, and have now been in position to have a bad share in the number of sheep and a few sheep. Their interests are specifically covered, e.g. by providing them with additional innovations, which we actually make a direct suggestion. We thus feel that we have met the young ones who are breaking through the big task of breeding sheep.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. It's both of them just as far as it goes. I learned to look at these suggestions from a Based agency when I ran into the gap as an assistant on a professional committee and, in itself, did not say badly about them. I think they're an excellent approach to the challenge that it must always set out for some group to receive such special support. The same applies to the newcomer, that's a good thing, but it still has limited funds, which I know best in this deal. And strangely, the area support is lower in the next year than it should be for some reason, only 90 million instead of 140 million. I asked if there was any chance of rerouting it, so that local support would begin with full force next year. Thus, there are a number of ways in which good works are shown, many places in this regard. A professional health committee has done her best. I agree with that. But there is something else that affects me somewhat. Time was so fast in the speaker's chair, these shitty 20 minutes, that I couldn't get to mention the customs contract. But that's what I'm going to do when I talk about it. But, of course, I would have liked to say a few words about the context of the customs contract and the changes in the market agreements. Everything must be considered as one of the total agreements, the consequences of the toll agreement, the labour agreement, and I'm not talking about if Iceland's prohibition on importing raw meat is upset and falls. We will need to consider some factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u63	Mr. President. It is important to keep it up in this discussion about the matter of Congress that hangs between the European Union's customs contract and therefore we are making a 10-year field for agriculture to deal with the wonderful changes that follow. There was another part of a talk. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, whom I would like to make a comment and draw attention to what is said in the majority of the employment committees'section on the environment. A professional health - care committee found that when she started to think about them, it would be particularly interesting to think that we are very poor with metering bars and advice on the aspects of climate and the role of agriculture in those areas. We can, of course, apply various measures on the emissions of land, the release of certain plants, and the binding of certain plants, the release of ruminants, and how we can respond. But the small numbers we have done in a relatively short period of time show that we need to work really hard to adjust those measurements to Icelandic reality. So I don't want to agree with what. A senator says that we are skimming lightly around the environment, but he agrees with it when he says that we have an opportunity to make the agriculture more relevant in our major work. It is the basis for the majority of the committee's proposals that we refer to the meeting point that will work in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u64	Mr. President. It is entirely true that in this respect, humans have presented the evidence for a 10 - year frame that agriculture has, in this respect, more and more prowess than usual because it has to deal with significant changes for other reasons. It's the entry of the toll agreement, there's new preparations, so I'm not gonna talk about if the prohibition on the raw was added. That's why there's evidence. But one thing is to negotiate a framework of support and other steps to take into account how these funds are used and how they are handled and how they are conducted. It seems to me that this is what man has more and less stranded with, at least Partially. They want to understand the right to reexamine, 2019, or when it is, whether all of this is the right course. About the climate. Yeah, I read that in the Committee. It is good for the committee to try to strengthen the discussion about these factors. Of course, that does not alter the material content of the agreement. I've assumed that Iceland, when signed in Paris, realized that we're going to have to put money in order to reach our goals. It won't happen by itself. We're already doing that, for example. with the tax relics in favor of green traffic, etc. So it must be if we are going to use the agricultural system to bind by the recovery of wetlands and forestry and so forth. I was in my childhood to think that this contract would be born into a billion or two that would be earmarked specifically to Iceland's action in climate - related activities through the cooperation of state and agriculture. Then there would have been something to propose a toast.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u65	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator with points he runs, especially with regard to the environmental aspects of these agreements, and he would have so gladly wanted to see funding to use the agriculture to counteract the climate problems. However, I felt that there were things in the matter. A senator witnesses to a certain paradox. I agree with him on the importance of our strong rural areas and a wide range of employment life in rural areas and opportunities and how agrienvironment schemes can be supported by tourism, which in itself is altering this loss of agricultural production. But at the same time, it's a bad word. A senator like manufacturing control is his own goal and good self. Is it not a problem with agriculture that the support system does not encourage innovation, for product development, to variety in production? Is it not your goal to support agriculture rather than to support a wide range of sectoral resources, rather than to support the production process as it has been since 1991? And by itself, do most of the most produce and mention of those on the weakest farms in the weakest areas? Must not be the solution to our agriculture being rid of all of this, breaking up the violent system as a gang. A senator has spent with the exception of the Galacasse from competitive law and has increased the possibility of the small manufacturer's ability to produce a variety of products directly from the farm, thereby providing a broad variety of needs in new times?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u66	Mr. President. Hv. A senator has misunderstood me if he understood my case so that I would be a firm advocate of direct manufacturing. I have always been open to consider that the support arrangement was based on events of other factors, at least in part. It is not a problem to implement it that way if we e.g. To some extent, we would agree that this support would be local and rural. It would be possible to have only fixed payments on farms, every farm where there is a whole year's farm, and some minimally designated farm space. There's a big difference between going over to the other part of the rest of the support process so that it's a direct source of production. That's what worries me. Because we have a very small and delicate market, and little is needed to disrupt our balance there. It cannot be overlooked that if you take a certain amount of money, put it in a pot, and then you open it into the pot for all those who place their money and produce meat, it is a manufacturing device. By increasing your production, you increase your share of the cake. That's why I'm worried because I don't have that feeling that's what we need. I'm not necessarily predicting that the production of bombs will be large, but there's a danger. However, some forms of neutral support arrangement would at least be free of such dangers. A great deal, all innovations, a wide range of employment and other support for the urban population are naturally of great importance. Of course, in this regard the growth of tourism is very satisfying; we were able to better distribute it through the country, making it easier for distant parts of the country to be involved in the growth, such as the Western world, the northeast corner, etc. It may be that in many cases, it is also a sheep - breeding area that lies the most remote center of the country. Surely, there would be better ways to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u67	A respectable president. I think it's sad about this deal that it has so many lost opportunities in it. One thing is that. A senator explained that it was not a new opportunity to delegate tasks to farmers in the recovery of wetlands and other national abuse projects to cope with the climate problem. Another is that you see an unpleasant sign that governments recognize the basic change in agriculture and can become a member of the agriculture system with increasing travel services. Of course, this is not only food production for tourists but also, like coz. One senator noted, that there is a possibility for better distribution of tourists by developing more local products, local characteristics, and thus increasing rural differentiation. In itself, I think we're faced with the fact that many of the ideologies of the agricultural system, ranging from the curse laws of 1934, have become out - of - date. Then the emphasis was on cheap milk, wholesome milk, and mass production. There was no distinction, no identifying marks. It was forbidden to sell Cities' shirts, etc. Now there is a requirement for time, travel services and a need for a new period of origin, a clearer link between production and market. I think that everything that needs to happen now in itself is to blow up this old shoaling system that holds back the development that we really need for the scattered settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u68	Mr. President. Yes, I have to agree. I was a little sad when I saw this suggestion, and it seemed to me that it was more ambitious and ambitious and that I had faith in various new possibilities and that it would see a place. At one time, the phenomenon was established The Manufacturer Fund for Agriculture, especially in support of agricultural change and innovation. The fund has done a lot of good and is still doing it because it was able to keep it right through the collapse. There were hopes that he would be restored to power. It has contributed largely to promoting agricultural change from traditional agriculture to tourism, to eutrophication, or to a number of small productions in farms, etc. And you could do much better. The fact is, if you do well, it can become an amazing variety and a delightful flea. You can see this from other places, such as Switzerland or Austria, where people have not been shy about fostering mountains and areas where they intend to back up, whether in order to see cows in slopes or in other places. But the reality is that tourism and activities flourish in areas directly linked to farms, local recycling, and so forth. This development started late here. That's right. And people can say like hell. A senator said that the system has been a little stationed, or fused, and he could do much better. So I can totally agree with that, and the deal is a tiny bit based on the old foundation, supporting this traditional production, and I could have thought that some emphasis would be directly transferred, and some of the funds would be moved to more activities that looked into the future, and to create a broader foundation. Admittedly, farmers would have had to accept that some of the cost of production is at the expense of a year's production support, while others were investing in the future. [[The president calls.]] They'd be believing that this would be investing in the future of the homeless.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u69	A respectable president. A bright future has provided a paradox that will be dismissed, the government committed to extending existing domestic contracts, and resumed work with other members who have been left out in this process. This is really a prince's position on the process, a prince's position on such important work that is so important to large areas of the country, for thousands and tens of thousands of farmers, for consumers in the country and production, that decisions such as this are not taken in tight back rooms where consumers, competitive authorities, EEA, land transplants, etc. you're actually holding outside. I have to agree with what. The head of the professional road committee in a short interview in the Morning Press, it is important that this discussion take place. A committee study and the adjustment of the more part of the employment board are asked to increase this in detail, to shorten the time from ten years to three years, and to use that time to agree on this. We, in a bright future, would like to say that it's completely backwards on that, i.e. Here we agree with this agreement, which has been made without this agreement, let's say on the way, but it has to be consulted, so let's put it in the future in the next three years, while this deal is true - and then what? Can we reach some other conclusion? In the bright future, we feel absolutely unnecessary to begin with the process of going into this contract with the changes it contains and starting without consultation with consumers, with land healing, and without regard to environmental factors, fully in and beyond all competitive reasons, we feel that it would be unnecessary to make this change first in order to have the discussion that we should have had before we changed. This is a princely stand with us, and it does not say in our hatred of Icelandic agriculture or support for the commercial agricultural industry. I, like us in a bright future, am a great host of Icelandic farmers, I am a great sponsor for Icelandic agricultural production, I believe that the Icelandic agricultural product competes with imported production. It has been shown to do so, the changes made in the climatic industry, when protected from customs, and transferred to production-related support, showed that the United States is fully competitive in its import and inflation. More importantly, with the change, we fueled a variety of productions that are not available in this small country and the small farm business we have. It tells itself that agriculture on the northern side of this small country cannot be very diverse. The agricultural system and the rigid production management that has been in Icelandic agriculture for decades has actually contributed to a single effort in Icelandic agricultural production. Not that Icelandic milk is not quite very good, but it's quite remarkable that there's only one Icelandic milk, the government's milk. There's nothing in the system, nothing that encourages variety, product development and innovation in this business. During the last few years, one or two decades, we have seen the considerable movement of Icelandic farmers in which they have entered their innovations, a specialization of their productions. The well - known victim of the Danube, which is a very entertaining innovation, is, of course, just a tiny fraction of the total production. In the short future, we criticized the lack of more support in innovation and there is no way of bringing the production more into organic and fully sustainable culture, which is no question that it would be easy to compete with, even with the famous Icelandmark. We criticized the fact that in the market agreements, environmental considerations are not taken, as shown in the Björt Ólafsdóttir, the head of the Committee View of 3rd, the Bright Future. Before the contracts were established, it was discussed that people would move from manufacturing sites and into links with a greater variety of productions, but also from localities, such as farms or farms, and actually build ups to live in rural areas, whether they have large productions or other activities, such as, for example, some other activities. tourist industry or whatever. Unfortunately, when the agricultural contracts are then introduced, this part has been drawn down to little or nothing and is actually supported by the production of support. We now have a production mechanism and have linked the support of production for decades, and what has been the outcome in general? In the last 20, 30, or 40 years, we have seen that there has been a tremendous decrease in the number of rural areas in Iceland. People from many rural areas have been completely blown up, and unfortunately, we do not see anything here that encourages them to move back. On the contrary, we see in these years a marvelous integration in Icelandic agriculture, especially in the dairy industry where we see fewer farms than the increase in giant farms, which are large enough to have long ceased to be some kind of family unit, financed, and run by large corporations, which are actually in the agricultural industry. Why, then, is the Communication Society so much more than a share in the Batsama business? Of course, this is because the Companion Society has been buying into Icelandic agriculture and running it like any other bisness. It may be normal for business to see and out of production, but it has nothing to do with community support. I mean, it's important that we decommission our regional policy thinking to agri-efficiency and to our manufacturing system - such as just as we do on the seabed - and have a wide variety of cohesion support available in the rural areas or settlements of the country that are not bound to any particular method of manufacture, some particular product or technology, but they offer the population of the country and are built up to choose for themselves what they do and choose for themselves what the industry, services, manufacturing, or whatever it is that they choose to work with and believe. In these contracts, we actually maintain a very narrow control of what people in the countryside can do. That's too bad, it would have been a good opportunity to go further in opening this door. It's a positive thing here, to some extent, it's open to diversity, but it's just too small. The consumer link is important because support is not only based but also supported by Icelandic agriculture and local food security. I would like to state that, although I feel almost unnecessary, in view of today's discussion, it is important to say that I consider the production of Icelandic food important to me, I find support for it important, I feel that Iceland's food security is important. But the food security of the Icelanders is not merely a place where we produce some relic of sugary yoghurt, or that we produce unscheduled pigs, or just chickens, but it must include a variety of productions. They're opening up here, for example. feed in better. What about beekeeping? Some day, there was an idea for crocodiles to grow in the Thieves. I'm asking myself, " Can there possibly be a future in it? ' The other end of the food production is distribution and sale and consumption in that production. There are consumers in Iceland who have been in charge over the decades, with a very rigid protection and limitation of the import of food that could possibly compete with Icelandic production, have actually been left behind, and have had to be content with what is available. I want to reiterate that I have so much faith in Icelandic food production, e.g. The Icelandic lamb, that I have no concern that with the natural support of production, Icelandic agricultural production will not be quite successful in competing with comparable products, such as the production of the Icelandic grouse and tomatoes, has done and proved itself. This is a project taken really to offset newly formed toll agreements with the European Union, which are expected to increase the import, including on cheeses, counter-important measures where customs on these products are raised to protect Icelandic cheese production. They're handing out some possible imported cheeses that aren't produced here on the land and they can come through. In a way, it's no doubt going to be okay for Icelandic cheese producers. True, this will not encourage them to become New World Translations, since they know where they will be protected. This will not encourage them to compete with the quality of foreign cheese, freshness, new tricks, or anything that would have been positive, both for the producers and for the consumers. The ten - year binding of agrienvironmental systems, although making more changes, was the result of changing agrienvironment schemes. The employment committee may be shortening it for three years, binding production to not taking into account consumer interests, not having consumer spokes at the table, is completely unacceptable. The way people come to think of them is really incomprehensible. It's a little like organizing the health system just by the Department's conversation with doctors but never listening to patients or nurses. It's amazing methodology, and unfortunately, it just kind of makes it more surreal to a greater part of the problem. The Committee to take the discussion afterwards. I can't complete my case without just entering the competition. It is incomprehensible and completely unacceptable that an entire industry, no matter how important it may be in historical, food security, etc., is taken out of parentheses when it comes to competition. The lack of competitiveness is so harmful when it comes to consumer interests, as well as to the interests of farmers because it has shown that any profession that does not have to be competitive, which does not require innovation, does not have to fight just over new ideas, benefits, etc., and benefits. Not to rule out natural competitive laws all over this country and in the Icelandic economy is completely unacceptable. It has been suggested that there is a law and, in fact, promote price fixing and consultation and actions that are directly punished and that affect up to six years of imprisonment in all other activities, and that is completely incomprehensible, Mr. President, and full reason to protest the lack of competition on the environment and development of these important sectors. It has been pointed out earlier this evening, and it can be read between the lines that if you are not completely satisfied with these agricultural contracts and the environment of agriculture, as if you are against the agriculture and against the support of agriculture. I object at the end of my speech. On the contrary, I am a supporters of Icelandic agriculture, but we don't do it with belts and shoulder ties and makeup, we don't do it both by customs protection, and by leaving the ground a competitive policy, by supporting production, and by not looking forward to the impact of production on the environmental policy. Icelandic films compete with subsidized movies from a movie in Iceland. They do okay just because they're good. [[The president calls.]] They have support, such as the imported photos, but because of the competition with foreign movies, they get better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u70	A respectable president. I'd like to write a few words about the livestock contract and the changes made by most of the employment committee. First, I would like to express great disappointment that we are living with a government that makes this last record deal and is trying to fight this contract for ten years, but it still states that it has some sort of reexamination in three years, which remains unclear whether it would be legally performed in a legal way that the government is free to complete the contract. When the case was presented to me at the time of the contract, it was by the highest level. I placed the heavy emphasis on being called to serious agreement on this matter. It would be natural when such big interests were involved that the government had explained its agreements from the Council before a deal was set in motion. As a result, they warned: "I am no part of the world, but I am no part of it. " In fact, however, the minister described interesting goals that everyone wanted to clear up this rigid production matrix into which agriculture has been badly converted, after which a ten - year contract about very small changes were made. The legal bill presented at the outset is a retrospective in many areas and particularly regarding the competitive issue. It is quite amazing that this nominee government, where human relations are completely broken down, will ask us to put up with the General that it and the greater part, which are here in the last record, bind the hands of the next council and try to create a framework that can bind the Council to ten years. It is also interesting that there is no small amount of money here. The expenditure according to this agreement and the value of toll protection for a total of 200 billion in ten years. It's like the most expensive version of the most unfortunate Icesave deal. It seems to me that the members of the government are approaching this project with tremendous ease, to say the least. It is happy that the committee will agree with this broad consultation in the next term, but it is totally inappropriate to start a contract for ten years and then consult on how to conduct the contract. We in the United States have received official support for agricultural production, but it is a key to its efforts to ensure that competition is not exceeded by necessity and that farmers and consumers will ensure maximum benefits. This does not make the present system, and this system does not make the changes proposed here. We can look at changes made in the past in other sectors. Vegetarian production was mentioned earlier today, and it is a very good example. You see, it has managed to create systems in which there are certainly a substantial contribution from the state's funds to the article, but it encourages competition, fosters goods development and initiatives for farmers, and helps to compete with imported production. It must be our goal, not to create commercial security through customs and oceans, but to create a system that allows them to compete well in free business. I mentioned earlier that the original aim for the loss of production control and the increase in marketing was further diluted to the protocol that nothing has been left. Today, the majority of the committees have put it on the shelf altogether. So we're here to agree with a contract that will not guarantee any article or consumer adequate benefits. The contract also contains many lost opportunities. The environmental part of the matter has been referred to here. In fact, Iceland has to meet commitments in climate. Why was the opportunity not now used and financed in enabling farmers to work on wetlands and thus reduce climate impacts? We need to act as a nation. I think we all agree that this is a very effective way. Why wasn't the opportunity taken now? It is also interesting that there is nothing here to increase the variety of payment arrangements. There is a lack of varied support, and nothing is done to facilitate the competitive position of my rivals in the products of goods. In this context, it is worth considering that the exception of a competitive sale was set up in 2004 and its declared objective was to enable this article to unite non-communicative and noncommittal products, not to eliminate the surveillance of the market manager's position. It should be temporary in order to reduce the cost of distribution, to reduce the costs of the product system, and to prepare the article for international competition. It was so successful that in 2007, legal adjustments were discussed in commentaries for changes in agricultural products to the highest degree. The current agricultural and marine minister and the current president of the Generals, Einar K.. The son of Guðfinnsson, set out. He discussed the exception in the following way: So it was considered necessary until the market was deemed to be mature in the sense that the prices and prices of products in the dairy industry would be excluded from the standards of competitive behavior. Since the sentence of the changing law, there has been a high economy, and as the position of industry today, it is felt that there is no longer any need to legalize the exception of the prices and prices from competitive law. This is what Einar K. Guðfinnsson, agricultural and marine editors say in their comments by a bill at the end of 2007. Nevertheless, we continue with this exception, even though we are shocked that she has proved to be a fanciful salutator for violent action against competitives, and that the Batsala has abused her authority repeatedly and has tried to interpret this exception much more than it really is, according to the words. The exception is now maintained by a majority of the Committee. What happened to the committee? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is unnecessary if the goal is to ensure that milk can be collected from all parts of the country and sold at the same price throughout the country. There is no need for that, from competitive laws, to succeed. This is what the Contestance Commission said and spelled it out to the members of the committee. However, representatives of the greater part decide not to even take a personal interest in material reasoning and to continue to do so. This is far more extensive, than agriculture enjoys from competitive laws in any of our neighboring countries. Worse yet, the proposals of the Galacing Office to abuse this exception by discrimination in prices, which has resulted in huge fines from the Contestant, good health, have been left to the majority of the committees unsurpassed. It is also worth remembering that the bill as it was originally prepared would still be hardened and the prohibition against misuse of the market market would no longer apply to the violent man. In other words, it was only to open the possibility of a violent exchange by the Radarsell. Blessedly, the changes made by the Committee are now under way, I hope. I notice someone talking about the same condition in the report. So I think it's very important to keep it this way that in this explanation and in the debates presented here, there is some doubt that the Contestance Board continues to monitor the misuse of market markets in the milk industry. The exception is not enough to take the violent man to safety. It is then interesting to note that in the discussion of the majority of the committees, the contract that will now be established is only three years old. I still feel weak when the situation is as discussed here, for in a number of articles of the bill referred to in 2026, we are about to legalize commitments to 2026. Does the State have a free choice after the accounting work now to start, the great conversation that has been decided on which they want to go after they decide to start? It's kind of funny. It's like we're living in a administrative point that's off the west route to Akureyri, but it's not quite sure where he's going, he doesn't know if he's going to Akureyri, to the Western Islands, or where he's going, and he's showing it better than any other incapacity in this matter. I want clear answers that the state has full scope to disband from this contract after three years if it wants more part of it, as blessed evidence indicates, that it will become more liberal and more open to market laws in this industry than it is currently. It's going to be for a national cleansing by a council of the kickback forces and there's a chance that a stronger group of liberal senators will be here during a new election period. Perhaps that is why we see this time - consuming experiment in an exhausted government to push this issue through in an effort to extend the repetitious combination of this council to the grave and death and far beyond the end of this election period. That's maybe what's really going on here. I think that's why we're gonna make a change of motion. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller recommended for us earlier in the discussion that the time will be indistinct to three years. We're also going to make a change in an order for the deportation of 71 str. I must be looking at members of the Independence Party who have been dragged like blind people in this case. How far does this slave have to do with the confusion? There is no material evidence to be considered on the job board. There is no need to maintain it to ensure that milk can be collected on a global scale and sold at the same price throughout the country. Why, then, is this exception being maintained? How interesting it will be to see if there are still some advocates of professional freedom in the Independence category when it comes to this matter's vote. I have doubts about it, but I hope that some of them are looking for a re-election process these days, and some of them will have to set up the face of freedom, even if only for reelection. I see two of their agents in this room, huh? Councilmen Vilhjálmur Bjarnason and Birgir Ármannsson's son. I think it would be a real joy if they could get started and take up a long - term, dead liberal nerve on the release of this case. Although we are not discussing the toll agreement with the European Union, it is very important to keep an overall context in mind because the overall context needs to be balanced. We support agrienvironment schemes and the aim must be the support of at least healthy competition and market laws, providing farmers and consumers with the maximum benefit. Part of the overall picture has been that Iceland has agreed on a commitment to allow the import of agrienvironmental products in low tolls and on the other hand, on our terms. However, it has been done by watchmen over the current situation for decades that man has created a system to try to prevent it from making any price or quality use of this import. The stated aim of these contracts from Iceland, when Iceland has signed its involvement in these contracts, has been that they want to be kept in price and quality. But when the import parvos are invented, neither of them are created. It'll be pretty much the same as in domestic production, and because of the high price paid for the quadtans, you will be taking the poorest product, the cheapest product. Therefore, it is very important, also in view of the fact that there is a Supreme Court sentence on the defect in this import auction system, to change the law and import device with a coin. We'll make a move there. Business and services organization has sent other ideas to the General Assembly, where three fourths should be distributed on the basis of experience and a quarter on the basis of a coin toss. I think it simply is impossible because in the past producers have striven to raise themselves high in this saying to protect themselves from foreign competition. So I see no reason to base on historical experience when it comes to the distribution of these quotas. On the contrary, it is very important to assign them by lot, in as simple a way as possible, as most of the committee suggests. That may be one of the few things I can compliment the greater part of, i.e. that the same arrangements will apply to all import equipment as the majority of the object allows for the source-marked cheeses. This is very important to ensure that the results of the overall context of the objects will be adequate and maintained both in quality and in price. A respectable president. It is good to see from the majority of the committee that in the coming years of reevaluation of agricultural agreements, they are giving up a real job. But it is not this repetitious assembly to bind the hands of the next councils. On the contrary, it has to be that a new government will come to a clean table. It is of great importance that the new majority of the Generals have free choice of how this case will be developed again. I don't believe it until I assume that members of the Independence Party are going to be able to reinvigorate here for the next ten years in an irreverent way. Therefore, I think it is very important to make a success of the fact that the new government has full freedom to make decisions in the middle of its next elected period. It's a good time if we look for three years, so the contracts are going to work until the end of 2019. Of course, you need to have that conversation. New ideas need to be developed and new ways to go. We all deserve it. Farming is very necessary to maintain greater freedom in production, products development, and thus have the opportunity to make use of all the possible opportunities for today's community changes, increased tourism, large numbers of mouths to feed in this country, and new opportunities for exporting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u71	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a very bad speech in which he showed his deep appreciation for the happiness of farmers and ideal farmers while quite clearly promoting our policy in the United States that we do not want to see them from competitive laws still found in these laws. Hv. A senator stressed that it was very important that the hands of new councils not be joined to the future until ten years. Then I want to ask him two things: First of all. Does he feel that the monopoly, as if of knots, is in the greater part of the world that the next assembly is completely inundated? Second of all. Because why? A senator has been active in a discussion of a constitution and knows many others better, does he feel that it will pass the constitution to accept the law of the sort here that may be able to bind the hands of the council, hence, for almost three terms? Is it absolutely clear that it is permitted according to the constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u72	A respectable president. That's a very good question, and the one I'm really worried about. We know that if you have made a binding store deal, it will not be easily removed except by both parties. We tried that after a crash when the current market agreement was changed, but our freedom in the government was limited because there was a valid agreement. On the other hand, it is, of course, the Constitution which the Generals will be able to do as an example of accepting funding from one year to the next. In this regard, the treatys of the Generalty are bound to the Generals at any given time. Because of it. A senator wants to know if there's something wrong up there, you see, there's no problem. There's nothing going on. It's a big part of the house that hits and watches. He says that we now have the first three years of the contracts confirmed and set a vision for ten years. Nevertheless, he establishes a methodology for revising the agreements, says on page 20. 3 of the Committee Department, and suggests that the review is based on methodology, which includes extensive harmonization of agriculture, a vote for revised agreements among farmers and the General's payment on the legal adjustment it may require. I think it's pretty vague. Does this mean that the General is in a position to sell? Will the contracts always be a minimum of what is stated in the bill we are about to set up and apply according to the order of 2026? Or can the Council change what is left of 2019◯26? I think those who come up here, members of the Independence Party, who are naturally in their wolf crisis trying to get out of this possession they've gotten involved in owe us an explanation for that. Is it, then, precisely enough to get out of this, that the contracts are not committed in 2019? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u73	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason referred to members of the Independence Party. One of the outstanding things in this discussion today is that the members of the Independence Party sit and thunder in their seats in the hall and do not seem to have the courage to come and say what their stand is. [[For example: No candidate has spoken either.]] No candidate talks, either, say what. Senators. I've noticed that. I understand they don't want to say much. Yet, they agree with the Bible, with skin and hair. I wondered what it's like for liberal senators like. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason. Will he not participate in this discussion? Few people have as misinformed as he spoke about the value of competition and are critical of the kind that we are finding in this bill and the change in the motion we are making. I'm surprised if it is. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason is not going to say anything because he is now present for the discussion. With regard to the constitution question, it is not out of the open air. I respect the men who have studied the constitution. I respect the men who have been in charge of political parties, even for a long time, even if it's a different political party than the ones I belong to. This suggests that the former prime minister and former head of the Independence Party have written very deep - seated articles showing that there are strong reasons to believe that with this agreement we cross the limits allowed by the Constitution. That's why I wanted to get past that position. A senator, like Pálsson's son, seems to have serious doubts about the fact that this is where we go in shape with the constitution. [[The president calls.]] If there is anyone who should be given the benefit of the doubt in this matter, it is the constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u74	A respectable president. It is of interest to note the absence of the members of the Independence Party and members of the Parliament from this discussion. But I understand that those members of the Independence Party on the southwest corner, who are struggling to re-elect themselves, do not want to protect this maskless masquerade that's going on here. They're trying to make sure that their voters don't realize what kind of mess is going on. That's why there's a why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson was sent out with this cloud of smoke, the idea of some three-year contract, but no one knows what it's like to try to distract the attention of the present bullshit. I think the voters of the Independence Party's Committee in the Southwestern District and in Reykjavík we need to think about what we're going through. The men of the assembly of Vilhjálmur the son of Bjarnason, Sigrimar the Ah. Andersen, the son of Ármannsson, the Brynjar of Nerz, the son of Níelsson, Elín Hirst. Should we be allowed to listen to more alleged liberal talk from these people? Guð forbid. These people must go to the forward party they live in and explain to their voters that they have no appeal to speak for one way or another of being liberal. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Because of what? However, a senator asks about the Constitution, so the Organization for Trade and Service, I think it was rather than a professional body, you had a case to invalidate a market agreement. It was dismissed because it had not been confirmed here. Therefore, it will be put to the test in courts if one of the ten - year contracts is to be broken through. I agree with what. A senator who is unable to resist the government of Iceland to bind the hands of the Generals for years to come. I think it's very important that they, at any rate, squeeze it out of these self-important members of the Independence Party to make sure that they're doing anything so that this will tie up the hands of the next council because it may be that there will be real liberals coming to the next assembly, not to such sensibilities as we have received at the invitation of the Independence Party during this ideal period. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u75	A respectable president. At the beginning of my talk, which discusses the goods and the necessary changes to farm laws needed to confirm a contract called a livestock contract, I intend to give up the good wishes. paritaprevir The Árni Árnason sent me to join the organization for a living. It'll be late, maybe on the last day of my life.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u76	You're a houseman there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u77	And so were the exhilarating words. paritaprevir Unnecessary of Skarphéðinsson's son. I have in the early stages expressed certain doubts about the market agreements. I have described that the journey that took place in 1940 to today has failed to produce the results of wishful thinking for these treaties. The amount produced has not yielded the desired results, or direct payments as they are called. I have allowed myself to look at this matter in terms other than other members of Congress. No one in this passage has mentioned the survival of farmers. In this case, no detailed information on the survival of farmers is available on the basis of articles. Nor has anyone mentioned the size of agrienvironment in national interest bills outside of what I once did in a speech, but according to my opinion and my opinion of national interest, the value of these two capitals is almost zero. What sheep earn to a fixed cost and salary is almost what comes from paying off bone. There is no longer any profession that can survive in that way. Nor can any industry survive in the long run in a protected environment, protected from all competition, as the number of products that are the commercial products of agrienvironmental products that do not appear to be competitive and that have led to changes in consumption habits for the nation in recent years. With the agreement that is expected to result in the pay of 12 billion a year to raise sheep and milk production. 12 billion is quite a figure. It's about 0.5% of national product. These are almost the income debated about being too low already in the taxation of fishing expenses. It's an enormous amount of money. What's really gotten on my nerves in this case is that these high payments are shared without knowing who will be the best interests of the recipient of the case. I think the biggest concierge in the last century was called Marshall. Icelanders are not built up in world record, although there are many world record estimates, but in the Marshall aid, which began 1947, we can say, which some of which lasted the '50s, it was one of the basic requirements of hosts to provide national accounts in Europe so that they could know what the situation would be like for the recipients. I think everyone had to meet that requirement, except Icelanders, they received endless tractor benefits, which were part of the production grants of that time. Icelandic agriculture went through Marshall's brain but did not provide enough help to maintain the build-up of fractured areas. The regional strength mentioned here may delay a certain trend, but it cannot prevent it. I think it's the wish of most of the people in this country to be inhabited in all the land. It is also my desire to preserve the country's inhabited. Unfortunately, in my life I have seen that it is not always possible. For example, the country where my parents were born and raised could not be saved. There may be a fractured area somewhere. Somewhere I've read that a facility has defined a fragile area where approximately Eleven percent of the population live. They may fail. During the years that have been called bone payment, people have had the goal of maintaining their land. How's it going? Yes, the reduction in milk has been achieved in the number of producers from 1700 to 700. Thus, the objective of scattered areas has not remained there. From the number of sheep I have considered, there has been no way of boasting. I view this contract as a three-year deal. In the three years ahead, we need to operate. The Agency needs to be better prepared than what was presented here at the beginning of this matter in a bill form, where, for example, the terms of the year shows what the outcome is in these articles. Who are being strengthened? Do you have any super-coolers? Is there someone there who isn't wintering? How will generation change succeed? What is needed for generation change on sheep? I reiterate how little information is available in this case. I believe that it is necessary to ensure that other areas that are partly based on agricultural products do not have to be involved in this direct payment. At global prices, industrial products may be purchased, but candy production, production of chocolate and ice, has had to pay another price. It just doesn't work. I thought that what happened here in 1970 when Iceland went to EFTA when all customs of industrial raw material were dropped. I think there's some way I can guarantee the benefit of those articles that seem to have been followed. You see, there's nothing as simple as making chocolate. These articles work here in a highly competitive foreign field, and that's all right, they've only prospered. Simply put, competition is improving the interests of consumers. The profession of superlocation is doomed to lose because there is always some locality where the article loses. I expect that in the three years of hand-to-hand action will take place in various things I've said here, e.g. such as what are being strengthened and what future views of agriculture have taken place. I have at times found Icelandic agriculture to have the prospect of looking in a rearview mirror. It is now the sad prospect that I see. It just doesn't work. Here, consumption changes have been made, and there will be no fighting for lifestyle changes in which people have free choices. Icelanders go abroad, stay abroad. There the Icelanders get to know other foods and have only come home quite well. I believe Icelandic agriculture has to deal with what's going on in the countries around us. And while it's out of the question, I'm simply going to say that the aim of the toll agreement is to make it a profit to the consumers instead of being picked up by the state fund of the retail market. In this speech, I'm going to stress that I don't think we're going to be going over here for a third term, we're primarily extending the existing domestic agreement, with slight changes, for three years, and that time will be used to operate this system. Men have boasted of what was done in 1992 after 50 years of subsidies, but I believe that the system has even reached its end today. A respectable president. I'm not gonna extend my case. I think I presented my views. I wish that every tool in this country could see any profit in their work but that it would not be a surrender at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u78	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, who is usually the most notorious member of this hall and never conceals his opinion, concluded by saying that he had promoted his attitude. I'll allow myself to disagree. There was no attitude in the matter. A senator except two things; first, he believed that the system was up and second, he believed that this was an extension of the market agreements. What I'm going to do, though, is that the main ingredient in my inquiry to what I'm going to do. A senator is saying that he views this agreement as a three - year deal. Will the senator base his view on a major system that he himself says is about to collapse on some sort of wishful thinking? He knows this as well as I do that there was a written agreement by both the National Institutes and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who said that while it wasn't specifically stated by the council, the greater part, and a special account of both the Research and the Ministry of Economics that the understanding was at hand and shared, that it would be reviewed and reviewed after three years, this contract could sail to ten years. I believe that this includes something. that the General will not be able to take away from competitive legislation for a long time, possibly ten years, for the milk industry. Counts 'em out. A senator that is in harmony with our thoughts about universal authority? It's good to see you, too. A senator is an amateur businessman I believe this deal will be accepted in a way that is appropriate. A senator apparently intends to evaluate himself, then, at the same time, the scope of the Generals to make new business agreements for the reduction of farm customs significantly limited. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that this power supply to the town council from the council is in harmony with a constitution? Does he believe that this is a moderate act of the office of the council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u79	A respectable president. I'm sorry to hear that. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson had no sense of attitude in my speech. Then I should repeat my speech and see if he understands it in another round. I believe that under no circumstances can any authority be delegated to the local community, which is natural. If in doubt, though, there are courts in this land, and they can decide if they do. There are agreements here that this contract will be revised. It is also the financial authority of a council every year that is needed to complete this agreement. This is a will declaration with this point to three years. I'm going to trust the senators to respect it. It's often, so I don't have an idea flight to see through all the little things some might see. If the next council wants to keep it intact, I have to let it pass over me. But the industry itself will not benefit because it will remain here if humans fail to deal with it. So I travel through countryside in the summer and have traveled many places. I think there's a lot of things going back in the countryside. I think this agreement, which is unchanged extension of what has happened since 1992, does not make up for what was happening in the scattered areas, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u80	Madam President. Farmers are not overly pleased with their terms. If they had agreed on these agreements, and if they were otherwise content to contribute these large sums of money to the agricultural field, they would have wanted to use it in another way. This money could have been used much better for agriculture, much better for the rest of the urban areas, far better for Iceland. No one showed this as clearly as he was. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon here earlier today. But back to your stand. Senator. He stumbles over his own reasoning. His second speech is not in harmony with the main points of his first talk. During his first talk, he said that he considered this agreement to be only three years old. In the second discourse, he had embalmed it to say that it was a sincere statement that it might be just three years ago. The fact, of course, is that. A senator has intelligence and intelligence to understand that the community and after politicians are involved, nothing has to do but get in the way of this agreement, which he says is given free will. This makes it clear that the contract goes on for ten years. It also allows liberal independents to participate in handing over the authority of the Council to the Farmers to see if the Council can change these agreements for ten years, as well as on financing. I think it's in a very gray area with the constitution. That's part of because I can't support this case. But most of me fall, even all of them, disintegrating stone deaths while listening to what was. A senator, a spokesman for the liberal wing of the Independence Party, will subject himself to this understanding, not even being consistent with himself. [[The president calls.]] Now I'm waiting for you, Madam President to hear what you're saying. þm. Sigríður's victory shows whether she likes to stumble over her own logicalness like the rest of her liberal wing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u81	Madam President. It is a keen discussion of this important matter and is well available, not only to handle and communicate, as it is quite clear that they are diverse. This is one of the things that have been made clear. Many things have been written, and we have discussed these livestock contracts that we have been considering today and have realized that they seem to be on their own. Criticism in making these contracts, of course, is due to poor consultation. I think it's the highest. the leading agricultural minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson made a more important mistake when he did not have any more members in this process, including a council member, since it was clear and has long realized that this would be a divided opinion, both in the community and particularly at the council. So no wonder, these are the large sums of money from our common funds. It would have been strange if such sums and agreements had not caused some controversy when it came to a discussion about him both in the community and when the Allied Council is putting him down, as we have seen today, and it became evident immediately to 1st. The point. Of course, it has to be critical of how late the start was. During the final days of the council, we are doing as much as we can in practice when the time of the present agreement was long ago seen. There is nothing but a path that has not been started before about going through these contracts. What is the livestock contract, and what is it for? The aim should be to promote Icelandic agriculture and improve agricultural quality, especially when we look at food safety, improve the supply of farmers, and, in fact, the competitiveness of the whole agricultural sector. We want to promote innovation and investment both in the early product and in its entire agriculture and processing. I think we'd like to promote the environment of the wand companies and contribute to the value of food at home in the district. Above all, to ensure food security and to place high environmental importance on the environment, i.e. The carbon tracks. And perhaps most important, it is the obligation to forbid the introduction of animal products produced under less circumstances and to reduce the requirements of equipment than we do here in the domestic product. That's one of the things I've felt were missing a bit during the discussion. However, the matter has made some changes to a professional committee. Most of them are improvements. The members of the left green have done their part there. The unscrupulous accounting regulations now in 2019 are of great importance, as well as to postpone the subsiding of the milk industry's evasion committee and to adopt some form of income market, which was not well prepared and is, of course, controversial. It is lacking in our left green opinion that the agricultural treaties serve the aims of sustainable agriculture and domestic food production in the interests of our community, where we base on environmental, animal protection, welfare, and loyalty views. A wide range of the origination and the transmission of information to consumers should be considered, and should be considered as important, including to achieve the social peace we need so much in this big matter and that there is trust between the manufacturer and consumers. There, effective and reliable information is important. The agreements have been criticized by many, and the council received many reviews. It seems as if the most criticism has been on the length of time, i.e. These ten years, the contracts being established far into the future. As was the case with the people before me, that's a big difference in opinion. Criticism has been just as much about the amount of money to go into agriculture and this contract and criticism of the plan to put down the production management of milk production, especially from farmers themselves. They were to build for the future on a highly creative system, but they developed a revised law. The sheep contract was considered to be a fine object, especially to the major sheepfolds, where people have almost completely secularized. The concern was that production could include Moving to an area where bait land would not be particularly good, and especially that an increasing force for production could create overproduction of lamb. But sheep farmers did not come out as well from these contracts as from cow farmers. They did not get the same kind of right to choose for the rest. However, there is now a change, therefore, in view of the recommendations made on the job committee, and we are all being revised in 2019 C.E. This is important, especially for sheep and gardeners. They get that right, i.e. to choose for yourself from now on. As we discuss the agricultural system and its policy, we need to discuss the entire chain of value and consider the cost and cost. Our review by a representative of the work board is presented, with the permission of a president: The most efficient movement ▪ green tenders highlight sustainable agriculture policy and consider it important to support government contributions in such goals. Self - destructive thinking, in fact, hides. In the absence of renewable resource use, it is lost or disappeared. The usefulness of renewable resources is therefore important to set baits to avoid harming the Member States so that the resource of this resource goes right into the courtyard. The agricultural agreements on the use and protection of vegetation would need to be more clear, and it is important to plan for land healing and to map crops in terms of its use capacity to succeed and become new in government agricultural policy. Where there is a need to ensure that the use of natural resources will be sustainable, whether products are consumed within the country or in the foreign market. This, of course, is very clear. You may feel that you are not far enough at the contract under which you live. We have stressed that there will be a clear agrienvironmental policy, and public agricultural contributions will be conditioned to follow up the objectives of this area so that we will achieve them. We consider agriculture to be very important in the context of environmental and climate issues. The use of renewable and environmental energy has only been developed here, which, of course, is of great importance. We need to promote such use, and in this arrangement more is needed. Although some progress has been made in the content of the work programme, this need to be clearer to the market agreements. It's into bioproducts. Its support is only to be increased and adaptability is to be provided, but as is often stated, it can be better if sufficient. We need to do this as well as others to shape manufacturing policies. If we are going to aim for the production of organic farm plants to match the demand, we as consumers need to be aware that such production will always cost much more than the standard. Sadly, the situation is that people who are involved in such sceptres, i.e. is experimenting in organic production, whatever it is, running into walls after a certain period of time and not receiving adequate support. We have an example from my district where people are engaged in unconventional agricultural equipment, in Charles'Bases in Bergerald, Havari with food production. There, the system has been fortified, e.g. Do not come together as if it had to be done to make such a wand grow fairly fast. That's one of the things that would have had to be handled better here. Even though these things are being added, I worry that people are being pushed into something that support is not going to cover when they need them. I think we need some kind of immune funding. We also need to make plans to see how the land can depend on domestic food production much more than is currently available. It is important that the domestic food production and agricultural production of an alien demand for these products. We need to ensure the national food and food security. In this regard, we can look in many directions - whether for crops or just traditional breeding or gardening. So interesting and a need to examine the pros and cons of environmental expenditures, e.g. exported agricultural products. Because the following talk may not sound too good to many, but I thought it would be a reason to consider it so that as consumers, we might understand the supplies involved in bringing in different products and wonder if we were really willing to pay the price that matches it. There is, of course, little more important than increasing consumer environmental awareness as we strengthen the position of domestic agricultural products. The source label is important in the marketing of Icelandic agrienvironmental products, whether here at home or abroad. But it is also part of a more powerful consumer protection. We need to ensure proper meanings of products and resources whether they are imported or not, e.g. in view of the use of genetically modified organisms in the production process. Today is not, of course, a follow-up. I think 25. improve the well-being of animals, e.g. Never was used, but it is about the limitations of imports from other countries. We have heard examples of buying products around the world, and they are even repacked in the North countries or something, and they are sold as such to this land and many parts of the world. I'm asking myself, " How can I be sure the products we bring in are not coming from countries where, for example? ' Child labor takes place. We've been discussing some of the Asian chicken jokes. Other factors have been mentioned in this regard. We know how to do so in many areas in poorer lands, these larger countries, and children as well as adults work in an unhealthy environment. There's one thing that I think we've done really well, that's the antibiotic gift. We severely limited the use of antibiotics in feed. I think it was an important decision that has set us among the top nations in food production because the use of such drugs is absolutely minimal in this country. It affects our human health. Not long ago we read in the news that large amounts of antibiotics were found in Danish children. I think that at the same time we have to face the fact that we're making these high demands, there are many ways in which Icelandic agriculture is less effective than the person we compete with. But I believe that's what they're doing. I think it's very important to have our product as clean as possible. In this regard it was interesting that I was told, although we may not produce much apples, but I had no idea that about 90% of apples are coming from China.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u82	Not a big toll on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u83	No. But as for the antibiotics, I wonder, " How do they stay so fresh? ' If you think about it that way. At least I don't want to eat the house anymore. But this is something that we need to consider as alert consumers. I don't think we can overlook the welfare laws that many farmers, especially in the production of the white meat, have had to take on, and, in fact, cow farmers, also, have billions of cost for enforcing the new rules of animal choice. I'm very pleased with the increased well - being of animals, but it's quite clear that there is negligible support here compared to the competitive countries we'll discuss later, which will likely gain greater access to our market. We need to be reasonable in our coverage and compare and be prepared to recognize whether we are importing inferior products from countries where equipment and setting are less than here or even not knowing it and then not being so free to look past it and then make demands here, looking at the possibility that this is too much to produce clean products. I agree with what's been said here that we should use this opportunity to negotiate with farmers to participate fully in the contracts we've signed to reduce the use of carbon. We need to change the use of the land. Then you can wonder who has much of the land and who knows it best. Isn't that the farmers? I think we'd have to deal with it better here than we do. At the same time, we have to look at the fact that in our national markets, for some reason, we have been unable to sell much more lamb to abroad and in the market here, we have not been able to get the tourists to eat enough of domestic foods.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u84	We're not offering them that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u85	You see, it has to be called on. The marketing of the product must be linked to national food, particularly regional food. It should be part of our tourist policy to do so, based on local tourism. Instead of saying, " They just want to eat what they know,'we need to get these things back to foreign tourists. I don't think that's the case, but it's been said quite a while. Today, virtually no increase was said to exist in farms or products. The rising price of meat then seems to go all the way to shopping. Price reduction is imminent in sheepfolds especially, i.e. in leftovers, 10◯12% reduction. When this is the case, what is being done, and what is suggested by tax agreements, and so on, we know that a number of sheep farmers could turn their leaves. That's only when we're talking comparators from the countries around us. We're in a hurry. It's not bound to Iceland to do this kind of contract like this. It's a real problem with what Danir has done, especially those with the white meat. There, an increase in import was lost and the contracts changed. We are no different than an island, and we need both feet on earth. I'm fine with the contract being revised. There are many things in him that have to be fixed, as has been attributed to my people today, but also many benefits. But as noted earlier, we cannot sign this contract for many reasons. Of course, the more part is just to have it, especially because we were not allowed to enter this case when it was being created.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u86	Madam President. I thought why. A senator brings up a subject and explains many aspects of this matter that no one has taken up in the discussion, which was not stressed by those who have recommended it. Hv. A senator spoke about the apples from China, so he wondered aloud here on a talk chair why they were so fresh when they arrived that long road, perhaps thinking that they were not shallow enough. I completely agree with her about that. Just as she wondered if the apples from China are somehow treated with substances we don't like to eat, there are a lot of others around the world who are concerned about the same thing. It's becoming a conscious change. They're starting to think like a dog. The senator thought aloud in the talk chair earlier. Then you wonder what kind of pussy it is of those who have taken care of these matters that they have not been able to deliver Iceland and Icelandic agriculture, just as it is. A senator spoke of earlier. The use of artificial application is small enough to minimise exposure. Here's the use of agriculture poison at zero point. Here, agricultural production is much more eco-efficiency than it is elsewhere. As you can see, it is almost organic in many substances. I think this is where the farmers and the team members of the executives who take this lawsuit have failed miserably. It's not what. A senator would agree with me on that? Of course, left green and green environmental movement cannot accept this agreement. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned views on climate and environment. This would have been a great opportunity to join farmers in Iceland, as they would have been, to work toward the goals we have set for ourselves as a nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, the majority of the committees call for emphasis, no time limit, and no reference criteria. [[The president calls.]] It's a shoddy job, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u87	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree that there are many people around the world who are conscious of something. We are not in a country to wonder about any questions about antibiotic use or toxic use. But it is enormously large and far greater than we realize. If we have agreed to read from a package, there is an inexpensive amount of substances that are not good for us, whether they are pigments or any other ingredient we watch, I think, every day by, but I don't want to eat. But that does not make it easier for us to do better here at home just in view of how small we are and that we are an island. I also agree that I find it amazingly unusual how difficult it has been to market Icelandic products from purity, especially lamb, crop products, and god knows what. It's in my form. We've had a party here on the salary to market such products for decades. Somehow, it's going a little slower than I think it would be. It's the other of course that has to happen here at home, i.e. To reach, as I said before, the tourists to use more of these Icelandic products. Then, of course, not only farmers, farmers may need to do the same, but the main thing for travel is to agree with farmers; what can we do, and how do we do it best? So about the climate, I may come in better afterwards, which is just one of the big reasons why we don't look through our fingers with what's shown in the opinion of the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u88	Madam President. A little experience in the past summer. I had many foreign visitors over the summer and went to a restaurant with them. One time we walked between three of us, I would say the headquarters in Reykjavík without finding the right thing to do with the Icelandic lamb. In other words, it wasn't possible to walk around here, yes, the kebabs could, of course, and the places, they do well, the Arabs are doing a good job of putting Icelandic lamb into practice here in Mandi and in Ali Bab. But if you go to other people's, so I'm just name the restaurant Snaps, you couldn't have one there in the summer. I could mention some more. But that's not what I was going to say. The point is that prominent farmers realize that they have moral obligations to act in order to conform to the goals that they and we have set for ourselves as a nation on climate change and environmental protection. However, they were not asked advice. What is making so clear in this discussion is that this contract is made up in some smoking - filled backrooms where farmers, consumers, much less politicians outside the Bureau, could not come in. That's the big problem with this deal. It has, for example. It is stated that farmers themselves, the body of sheep farmers themselves, had to consider the consequences of this contract for the flocks of the land. The result was terrible. It turns out that whoever we should be supporting, if there is to be any support, is going to get the most out of this, i.e. The farmers with their grasslands, in the Dolls, in the North Parliament, and in the Beach. I think it's a huge conclusion, and I can't help but say: It was a bad start for this deal. [[The president calls.]] Men would have had better consultation, especially with the Allied Congress than with the farmers themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u89	Madam President. That's right. That may be one of the most critical of all. I don't know a lot of farmers, but I know a few, and all they've talked about, so they're ready to deal with it, as well. A senator said, taking care of his moral obligations when it comes to climate. Farmers aren't the kind of people who want to use it where it's not practical, I make it, most of them at least, even if you can't fully apply it. Of course, it is a sin that this opportunity is not used in these contracts, since it is evident that most farmers have to work with, especially sheep farmers, the farm. Making deals with them on the other hand. extending forestry or any way you would go to it is an opportunity for humans here to escape. I really hope that when it comes to the review of the deal, if it is approved, we have the opportunity to make changes in that state. It's, like, cot. A senator mentioned, very special, bringing in such a large contract, that it is not calculated with consequences for all groundwaters. It's like something else that seems to be coming, I think of the LINE bill that comes in half-baked from the Ministry of Education. This is one of the matters that are not prepared well. And as I said at the beginning of my speech: If the discussion had been made with anyone who should have been here, we wouldn't have been here to discuss this. Then we would've done it by now. I think that would be such a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u90	A respectable president. I think it's right to say a few words about this bill, which is under consideration, as suggested by the conclusion of the hearing. The employment committee, however, has several opinions from that committee. I will only agree with the opinion of more of the Committee. I think it's right to keep it up, because I've seen it myself when I'm talking to people outside of Congress about these contracts, that it's a little bit of a misunderstanding about the arrival of the council itself to the domestic agreements. It is this, as any member of this council hall knows, that the council itself does not have any direct access to any agreement. However, the contract has now been signed. The government has signed agreements with several long-term farming contracts, but, of course, on the basis of the meeting's arrival, it is attracted to the legal adjustment required to achieve these contracts. I wanted to make this right in the beginning because I know that a lot of people who follow the discussion don't realize that, in any case, I've seen that there was a slight lack of understanding in society in this regard. There are, in the first place, a long-term frame deal that marks a course, this time to ten years, and there are three contracts. There is an agreement on the working conditions of the gardeners, and there is also a contract on conditions of work in sheep farming and a contract for cattle farming. I'm not going to discuss the technical aspects of these contracts, but I'd like to mention a few things I've been wondering about. It is proper to keep in mind this discussion that all three treaties are expected to strengthen these groups of 13.5 billion per year for the next ten years, to and from some 100 million. That's a lot of money. In order to relate it to something, this is the same amount of money as Iceland's University is being planned for all its business. Only business at the Land Hospital is up to 50 billion a year. So these are 13.5 billion. What struck me when I started reading the contracts itself, and if I take to make up the contract for cattle farming, it's assumed that for the first time, at least In this respect it is presented today, a special support for beef production. This caused me a little strange because I don't know better than the production of beef is very strong in my feet here. I've talked to beef producers who say they don't eat demand and they know it. Of course, there has been a huge increase in the demand for food in general in Iceland, with a significant increase in the number of tourists coming here. In any case, the production of beef has not been on any of the legs until now, I would have thought. It seemed to me that energy was bickering, especially in the cattle industry contract. It also made me feel that energy is very suggestive of changing customs in a way that amplitude on milk and skimmed powder or their money will be brought to the same reality as 1995, i.e. It is suggested that this amount of money on the customs be reimbursed, and not a few years back, but to 1995. I feel that energy is very critical, especially in view of 1995, when contracts were made for this quantity and money, it was the understanding of all parties that the amplitude should be removed over time, therefore no price insurance was negotiated at the time. So I feel that the new government is coming in 2016, and I intend to be assured of this money back in time. It comes as a surprise to learn that those who have the insurance policy at their corners are fighting for insurance insurance in this area. It should be noted that more than a part of the job committee has been able to discuss this matter specifically and reach a conclusion. It seems to me that a greater part of the Committee has concluded that this plan simply does not work, and so the majority of the cases have made some adjustments. I don't really think that motion makes it any better, unless it's less, because more part suggests not to be responsibly assured by the indicators of consumer science and suggests that the rise should take into account the trend rather than the financial balance and follow the development process from now on. It is not enough for men to oppose my insurance policy, as I have mentioned. Rather, these same men have been particularly against gang insurance. Men have fought gang insurance at various fronts, with their mouths and jaws, well. Councilmen and the highest. Some ministers who. All of a sudden, though, it's in the hardware contracts, gang insurance laws, and it's going back-to-back. That's what I'm saying. As for the deal on sheep farms, I'm not going to go into technical points on payment points, but somehow it seems to be stirring up the system. It is obvious, and I expect any advance that I feel that all kinds of people are in a position to be dominated and far - reaching. A building agency is entrusted with regional support, a national body of sheep farmers is given extensive control over some money, and even the Food Institute is committed to sharing in agricultural grants. I pay attention to such exhilaration in so much power. This agreement, as well as the rest of the two, then provides a price fixing, i.e. that the annual donations I mentioned as 13.5 billion will always change according to the prices of budget and average price of consumption. It may be as if these agreements were made with farmers, and I don't know to the highest degree. The job committee has specifically discussed this point, since the willingness of men or any interested person to reduce only this government donations, these direct donations, is one way not to be assured in this way. But to say that I'm not referring to any agricultural growth being replaced in a single wintertime. I realize that it is not even practical to talk about the long - term outcome, although it is, in my opinion, very practical to discuss it and to plan on a project to reduce some of these forces. The second is that there are two ways to achieve land concentrations. He is in the way we are discussing this matter, i.e. 13.5 billion that are direct contributions to farmers, but they are also indirect. It is indirect, and it is an indirect strength that is difficult to assess for money, but it should be possible. I'd like to see a discussion on the Committee how high this indirect strength is, but the indirect strength is toll protection on agricultural products that are here. [[Take it up to 7 billion.]] Seven billion are called from the hall. I don't know if anyone's offering any better. But let us assume that it is the money. That's a lot of money. I don't like state-sized industry or state-sufficiency in a way that makes it look like it's going around behind the scenes in a hazy way. If you want to strengthen farmers by 7 billion, which is the indirect strength involved in customs protection and importing capitals on agrienvironmental products, you should put that money in a direct way, add it to the 13.5 billion if you want to. But the strength the taxpayers contribute to the agricultural field must be on the table and transparent. Another thing I'm going to make a note of is 13. the bill where the change is at 30th. The current agricultural fairs agreements, however this article allows the government to negotiate with the ranchers or Iceland's National Association for this strength. Today, the 30th grade. This warrant. She's restricted to her authority. It states that contracts are made for August 1 every year, and that their next price wound will be valid. The change in this bill we're considering involves a way that gives us no time for this government warrant. This may be because the contracts signed should apply for ten years. That's what I think, a respectable president, way too long, i.e. if you are not expected to see any basic changes in this government management system at the time. It is claimed that this is not really a ten - year contract because it will be revised, because some reviews are due to occur in three years. Then I ask, a respectable president, why isn't the three-year deal? What kind of contract is it to 10 years of age that runs up in three years? Such a contract is called a three - year contract. Well, that's all they're supposed to say. I take no note that in the law it is permitted by the government to negotiate even a 20-year contract with farmers, a 30-year contract, and make a commitment to a government fund for so long. It has to be restricted. That's what I think it is. The employment committee has not accepted any other role than the fact that there is a review, and it proposes that these treaties, or those with policy makers, will be brought up to date. But it's just a committee opinion. It's a committee's opinion. Business committee. It's not in the law. If they want to do something by this review, and if they want to state how it should be done and what basis should be behind it, they must set it in law, because of the opinion of the committee, even from the beginning. A professional commission does not bind a king or a priest in this matter. On the other hand, I would like to state that I am happy to have a good time. For example, a professional health committee suggests that 43 st. The bill will be removed. With 43 st. The bill is suggested that the provision of agriculture or the milk producers of competition be extended, i.e. 43. g. suggest change of 71th par. current law as follows: Despite the requirements of competitive legislation, the products of the milk industry are permitted to unite, agree on the exchange of milk to produce individual dairy products, and carry other forms of cooperation in maintaining the cost of production, storage, and distribution of dairy products. The decision now lies in the hands of competitive authorities, who deal considerably with the interaction of special and competitive laws, i.e. the management of domestic contracts in this case. In that decision, competitive authorities concluded that 43 percent of the world's population is equal to 1 7 percent of the world's population. The current law would not be clear enough, so in the bill before the council, someone was trying to explain this better, i.e. put this exception away from competitive law more in place. I rejoice that more of the committee will fail, but it does not change that the remainder of the 71 stre. as it is now, which releases products in the milk industry from competitive legislation. That question does not answer how it will be resolved. Now the decision is made by the competitive authorities, No. 19/2016, due to court hearings. I'm not going to express myself about the possible conclusion in this, but there's a possibility that the legal rights from which the milk industry is reserved from competitive law. I miss doing the highest. This was not specifically discussed by a professional health committee. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to mention that this committee considers customs and customs protection. The Commission has specifically discussed this and suggests that tollovians for the European Union's culturally marked cheeses under a tax agreement will not be offered the same way as other quotas. Here the committee suggests some sort of distribution by lot. I find it almost unannounced that the committee does not explain the origin of cheese. Why isn't it just a list of these cheeses? And there is no attempt to identify the impact of this proposal, some sort before and after the analysis that would have been agreed in the discussion. Then there's what I'd already mentioned, but then I've made a correct choice, that index change to 1995 that I don't feel is going on. I'd like to end up protesting what's stated in a committee party more or less. The employment committee that says it is important to consider the above recommendations, i.e. Suggestions for tollathane and toll protection, in the context of the proposed agreement signed by the European Union on atoll free import of certain agrienvironmental products. I don't see that this case has anything to do with it. The European Union has signed this business and must, of course, confirm and enforce. [[The president calls.]] You can't hang it in payment on these farm contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u91	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen spoke in no uncertain terms in most of his speech. She said quite clearly, unmistakably to that as e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason said earlier today, that it was her understanding that this deal existed for ten years. Hv. One senator asked: " If he is supposed to be for three years, why don't you say that? ' So it is their opinion that the contract should be made for three years. Tomorrow, she will likely have the opportunity to show it in practical terms. I'm asking why. Senator: In view of this unequivocal statement, will it not support the proposal for changes to exist here from members of the United States for a three - year contract? Second, I wanted to ask him why. In view of the debasing criticism she has presented on the bill, which is the knot of the livestock contract: Is it a basis for giving the council what they intend to take? Well, maybe. A senator who did not vote against this agreement after having here many points presented very convincing criticism of most of the main points of the agreement? Thirdly, I agree with her completely that it's natural not to intend to go up in a retrospective fashion whether these special cheeses are going to be paid for by a gang or a consumer credit card. I'd like to ask you why. A senator because she complains that men have not tried to look into the consequences of this and other agreement: Does she know what the cheeses are going to do? [[The president calls.]] Does she know?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u92	A respectable president. Here's a suggestion from what's left of it. paritaprevir The union that these contracts will only be three years old. I'm asking why. In contrast, isn't that some surrender? Isn't it a surrender from the United States to suggest that these contracts be approved over the head? I call attention to the fact that there is no hurry. The current agreements do not complete until next year and next year's reunion are not tomorrow, not next week, and not next month. There's plenty of time. If you agree to do so, as the committee suggested. Work committee, at least The more part of it, in some sort of consultation and some work to do and look out in these cases, if I may say so, there's plenty of time, there's quite enough time. It would not be for the first time, even if it ran late for the year, which is now a long way into the years of life. But even if it ran past a year, it would not be the first time that domestic contracts would be extended for a certain period of time, several months, or whatever it is necessary for humans to go to this great and expand the work described in the Committee's section of the Committee. Hv. A senator here asks me what I'm going to do. I think it's greed. I think it's greedy to ask the people here about what she's going to do in two days. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator sees it only in votes, and I will explain my vote when it comes to it. I expect him to be there in order to hear it. I was also asked if I had seen what customs would be on these specially marked cheeses. I have to admit, I just don't know it. This, of course, is one of the issues to be informed, should have been presented in the committee's opinion. It may, though, be--no, I must admit it--I suppose the cheeses are toll free, now it must be from a lot of toll free import. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u93	Mr. President. That was an amazing answer. Hv. A senator comes here and flies high on the wing of opposition to this bill, strikes himself before a knight, likely in the eyes of his party members, with some widespread criticism in the party that the members of the party have not dared to present. But then what happens when you walk according to your stand. A senator? She's going down on the ground. Then all of a sudden, she has no position. She is afraid to say how she feels about the matter even though it is 2nd. directly dependent on a person to discern his position. But what really matters is that when it comes to it. A senator has declared that it is reasonable to believe that this agreement will be made in three years, and she refuses to support the proposal. Suddenly, the ringleader and the contour have become so that she prefers to postpone or extend it to a few months. I'll ask them why. A senator: Will she propose that the contract be extended to the age it is talking about? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Will she?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u94	Hv. A senator makes my position too much. I think it's time to inform on the subject of a vote. I don't think that the matter would be excluded again because, as I've described in my speech, I'd have loved to go to some committee party at least The majority of the committee would be better handled by various matters. My stand for this and, indeed, is quite the same as I have simply declared my opposition. I must now intend for sentient men to be able to draw any conclusions. I don't think it's impossible to support a bill that just makes this deal a three-year deal. However, it would be a little strange, considering that I might not find the deal a lot like that. [[The president calls.]] That's what I caught sight of. The senator should now be able to produce a little bit of ambiguity on the side of the Continental, i.e. I want to accept the contract as it is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] But they're against the deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u95	A respectable president. It will always be more interesting and interesting to observe members of the Independence Party during this discussion. Once it was invented in traffic control, making fake cops and cutting them out of cardboard. The situation in the council is that there are now a lot of charismatic members of the Independence Party, people who are afraid to live up to their views but who now find themselves in a certain state of shock because of the upcoming requisiteness of the test. I must ask in view of the fact that there is a party brother. A senator. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who takes the initiative to shorten the contract for three years: Will she support it for the actual period of three years according to the sounds we would like to make? What I'm afraid of is that people are actually throwing dust into the nation's eyes, into the eyes of their voters, and that they are making a three-year contract when they are in effect making a 10-year contract. So I must call for it. A senator gives a clear answer: Is she ready to help us look down at the moment? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and his partner in this regard will become clear and clear. So a senator has to stand naked to his voters in the southwestern district? That, of course, is what we do for the council. Then, too, I have to ask. A senator: What does she think as a lawyer that it can mean to validate the contract in the present form and is written down that something should take place until the end of 2026? What are the possibilities of the next election period when there are blessed prospects for fewer candidates in the halls, fewer candidates from all categories, and thus perhaps hope that liberalness will only get better information about halls, how close will the next council be to the reinstatement of this council?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u96	A respectable president. I don't think there's anything wrong. A senator's use of those vain words and boastings, especially in view of the fact that I don't know that he listened to my speech. In her conversation, I expressed my opinion that if the minds of men were to make a contract for three years, as I believe that the power of a committee party is due to a greater part of it. Business committees, you should just say it and change it like that. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees, then, that the law should be clear. However, I wondered why. A senator's financial support is because he must, since he proposes to be valid for the next three years, he must do so. In this regard, we may differ because I am less convinced that the contents of the contract offer that he is worth over three years of age. There we are. As to the second question regarding the possibility of the next council, the next governments, and so forth to adopt this contract, of course, both the frame contract and the three contracts made are made in advance of changing the required laws. Of course, the Generals can always change the law. But it doesn't change the fact that this long-term contracts, I'm talking about ten years old, create someone right. I don't think it's going to be overlooked. Once you have signed a contract with the State until the age of ten, you will create someone right, even if this one is already in charge. It may be difficult to change the law so that the success of those who enjoy the contract would be seriously disturbed. That's exactly why I don't object to the fact that contracts are made so long like this deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u97	A respectable president. That's what I'm talking about. A senator may agree with the former chairman of the Independence Party and Prime Minister, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, that the Constitution is not required to make such a long - term agreement, in view of the fact that the World General funds are guaranteed according to a constitution and cannot be tied to the hands of the General Assembly so far into the future? Hv. A member of the council spoke of the exception of competitive law. I would like to emphasize that in the 2004 ensignment of this ensign, the milk industry was not without supervision for the misuse of market control, only on joint action and fusion. However, what was tried to do in this bill on the part of the minister was to eliminate the control over the misuse of the market market position. Blessedly, I am hoping that with the changes that made it possible for the committee to do so, it will be fixed. But much. A senator supports our suggestion to eliminate all of this, 71rd par. as a present, the highest. In 2007, the seabed and agricultural minister of the Independence Party, Einar K.. Thesson, did you think it was unnecessary? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u98	A respectable president. I don't think I'm going to be so crazy to express myself about the constitution of writing until I'm ten. Of course, there is a possibility that the Council can assign governments to make contracts and in the long run. The government does this very regularly, renting housing, and in the long run, even when it did not fit in with a budget. But I can say with what. A senator, if he is suggesting that this is worth considering and that it would have been suggested for the first time. There's a little more to discuss because there's a lot of money here, it's not just a place to live. The second question bowed to--she's just completely numbed out of me.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u99	Exception.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u100	The exception of competitive law. [[The president calls.]] Of course, I have felt that the agriculture should apply competitive laws, such as other sectors.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u101	Mr. President. I want to pray. paritaprevir Andersen to further support his conclusion here that Iceland's customs contract with the European Union is entirely not related and has no business to do with it and should have nothing to mix it. In a rough way, I try to say what I thought was wrong. A senator is failing to do so. Especially do I want to pray. A senator doing this because: a) It is evident, then, that the big increase in customs-free product imports, poultry, pig and beef production, and cheese compete to a greater extent with comparable domestic production. How, then, can it be said that this will not affect the working conditions of the articles here negotiated for the work fields and working conditions of the coming years? I can't quite make it work. (b) The governments themselves have said that these issues are completely compatible. It is known to all men here that although it may be not just for material reasons but for political reasons, these are twins. According to the legend, one of the members of the board highlights another and the other, and the conclusion is a regular halve; it's one for me and one for you. But the independent party feels it is better than nothing for them to get the toll deal back. Either political or physical, if this is taken into account, it has been a twin case from the beginning, and it has been brought forward, discussed, worked at the same time, and completely strangely by chance, it came from a committee on the same day. Wasn't that just a coincidence? And they are on the program here today. Don't you think there's more to this than that? A senator wants to be left alone?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u102	A respectable president. That's it. That's it. People have wanted to connect the customs agreement with the signing of the contract last fall, with the livestock deal, long before the preparations were signed. Men have wanted to link it together. Therefore, it is described in a panel of majority of the world's highest level. As the Commission considers it important to look at the above suggestions for changes in amplitude in relation to the planned confirmation of this toll agreement, it is important to consider the decoupling of environmental prices. I explained in my speech that I do not agree with that. I just don't agree that it should. This is a tax agreement that the government decided to make in its own time. I don't know that the council or what. In particular, members of the Parliament have been informed that there would be a consultation with the European Union on the toll-free import between countries, between areas, with reference to some future domestic agreements. I'm not going to rule out the fact that it was done, but I don't know what it is. I believe now that humans are much more likely to try to improve the complexity of the agricultural and import systems, so it is hardly possible for experts to monitor the play-computer in this case. I reiterate my opinion that I don't think it's right to link this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u103	All right. Thank you. A senator for the answers. Of course, it was clear that this is a personal opinion or assessment by the senator. He believes that this is not to be mixed up, but of course, it does not take away everything else in the matter. Is it not just a short story that, as was the official case, when this tax agreement suddenly converges into farmers? They are then talking about trying to repair a long - term domestic agreement, which leads to an adjustment period for the article, etc. Then it becomes a political engagement between the government parties, since the other category's contract is more difficult to compensate with the other agreement, which is more acceptable to them and perhaps vice versa. In other words, the independent party is going to land on the farm contract because it receives the customs contract and advance will try to live with its own toll agreement because it receives the livestock contract. In the political situation here, a man has experienced this. However, in a material sense, these issues involve not only the working conditions of agriculture for the next few years. [[The president calls.]] That's why it's one unit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u104	A respectable president. If we give ourselves to be true, and this is the proper description. A senator, it's just that it's bad, then it's not a good thing at all. I reiterate and restate the opinion I made in my speech that is that I believe we are here to be free of business, that we are to build on business freedoms in general if we want to strengthen agriculture, which I think we all agree to do in some way. If we want to do so, giving evidence that we do so, we are to do so in a direct way. Then we're supposed to focus on these agricultural contracts, make them the best we can, and stop mixing these matters together, and make up machines like this. Let's just keep it all on board; transparency, open agri-environment schemes, and agricultural grants like any other part of society. That's what we'll get. A senator can agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u105	A respectable president. We'll talk about hardware contracts here. We'll discuss terms of bill change of goods, equipment laws, and customs. I laugh like a snooze. A senator who noted earlier that this is a contract between two parties. On the other hand, there is a contract between the state and the local community. He's here to confirm. We at the Council are not direct parties to that deal. Of course, we, 63 senators, can have many opinions on the 27 - page contract. I'm sure that anyone can find something in him that they're not happy with, but I'm also convinced that people will find many things they can accept and probably some. Stability and vision are needed in agriculture, as are other occupations. Whether this is a three-year contract or a ten-year deal is debated. People may have opinions about this, but in reality we have a fixed frame of agreement that we can look at, and at any rate, we look at it in a way that gives us a vision of the future. We've got a 10-year frame deal on which we're going. After three years, we have to take a stand on the deal, how it's done. Men have been arguing with each other, no consultation has been made, not this one, and not the other. That may well be so. More than a part of the employment board accepts it here, binding in law that extensive consultations will be conducted on reviews or on how things develop. The application of this matter will immediately begin. Those who complain about a discussion, okay, that wasn't too much of a consultation. But when we call upon the law to be called to all partakers, everyone who loves it must be accepted. But if we start looking at this frame deal, let's just go to 1. ..................... The aim of this agreement is to promote the Icelandic agriculture and create the article as the most diverse resource. The Convention is aimed at creating a framework for building valuables and using the best opportunities for rural development in farmers, consumers and the whole community. This structure must be performed on the basis of uniqueity, sustainableity and diversity. To this end, the contract has a new project designed to support the agricultural sector and contribute to development and innovation. These are popular words that are often heard here in a hall of Congress from all categories. 2 / 15 For general working conditions in the production and processing of farms along with the support of the State, the support of continued economy, improved competitiveness, and a broad variety of quality products at a reasonable price. To ensure that farmers are available guidance services and reporting software to support the progress of the contract's objectives. That in the agricultural industry there are national opinions on the welfare of animals, wholesome products, environmental protection and sustainable land use. To increase the significance of bioproducts. - Who doesn't? ▪ To support the State contributes to continued development in this article and to the improved supply of farmers. To facilitate recruitment, so that essential generation change can become part of the manufacturer and ensure that the government's support is most effective in prayer. Who wouldn't agree? If we kill down here to 3. par., 3.2. The main focus is in the specific areas as follows: Eco-efficiency: Aggressive culture, economic growth with minimal environment disorder. Reinvestment, Reinculturation - grass, green, and grain Marked application use with respect to economic and environmental considerations, including the maximal use of domestic animals. Strength of domestic feed production Let's go down here a little bit: ▪ Organic farming: Marketing criteria for organic products and how well-designed land and production are suitable for the adaptation of organic farming. Sustainable development and land use: sustainability in land use must be supported by more targeted user management and education, including on the importance of agricultural and biological diversity. A lot of people are worried about the rookie. Six. says: This contract employs the funds intended for innovation. Their goal is to help recruits to start farming and facilitate land exchange. Who's not comfortable with this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u106	Oh, man.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u107	There's a couple of newborns here. Cell culture: According to this agreement, a carpentry agency employs the funds intended for goat trade. Their goal is to increase the supply of goat products and to support the protection and breeding of the Icelandic goat. That's almost no matter where you hit the ground. All of this sounds... [["Bastards"?: Sounds good, yes.]] Can we all be at peace with that? And then this frame deal ends with an urban accounting. All of us agree that we want to keep the country built. They agree to engage in activities aimed at trusting in infrastructure and living in rural areas. This includes finding specific ways that contribute to the growth of the rural areas, the growth of food production, and the production of food products, particularly to increase the value in the areas around the world. In particular, infrastructure development, such as communication, communication, and electricity, will be examined. Also, the possibility of the rural areas and their contribution to the activities related to climate change. This will be a means by which farmers will have confidence in the financial needs and will be more likely to pay for future exchanges on their farms. I'm just saying, who's not comfortable with this? This is three contracts. If we apply a little bit of the sheep's contract. Many people are concerned about the sheep trade. I'm one of them, anyway. If we go to 6. It says: Since 2018, the manufacturer's support will be restored to the Bethel family. His goal is to strengthen and support his family. Who doesn't like it? Regional support. There are certain areas under attack, especially where sheep farms are being practiced today, where we need to care for them. It is handled in this contract. It may well be better to do so. I won't say anything about it. But 8th. says: During the contract period, a special regional support will be given to the manufacturer in certain geographical areas dependent on sheep farms. Contract agreements agree to consult the Agency to make a suggestion for the definition of areas where such support is possible. The Agency also proposes how to distribute. Areas with a right to support must be established in Regulation on the basis of the proposal of the graffiti. Final supportive measures must also be agreed in Regulation following the proposal of the Marketing Authorisation and following the review of the Commission contracts. It's almost no matter where you hit the ground, it all sounds good. The agreement on the working conditions of cattle farming makes it difficult, what you see right away, to look out for the views of animal choice and wholesome products. It's been quite a bit in the discussion, the well-being of animals, how to wrap it in here. There are differing opinions about how to go, whether to punish someone or to what to do. But there are options at least. It's only the window in here. Eight. for investment support it says: In Annex 1, it will be paid according to table 1. Its purpose is to promote the more practical farming practices, improved bovine equipment, and increased environmental protection. In addition, donations will be made for new projects and improvements in older buildings affecting the environment, the services and the well - being of stocks. The budget may be up to 40%, but each manufacturer cannot make more than 10% of the total annual amount of investment support. Then there is a agreement with a gardener, who is wrapped into this, that has been unique before. It involves subsidies from electricity, which is the largest cost to farmers. So there are a lot of positive things about this deal. No doubt some of his flaws are found. However, the much discussed in the Committee was competitive, competitive, and competitive from competitive laws. Of course, it's complicated and delicate. But I say for myself that if we are going to make sure that milk is collected on every farm, wherever they are in the land, it will cost something. If we're going to make a deal with someone else to do it, it's gonna cost us. It seems to me that the little producers, Eagle and Cuckoo, are not interested in dealing with any obligation to draw milk from the other towns and towns. Of course, it is very convenient to be able to just order the raw in its own production at a convenient time. There's only one phone call or one email; I need it a lot now, or tomorrow or at any time. The person who accepts it must somehow favor him. I want to be very careful in destroying the good stuff. There are also obligations to that company, i.e. always lie down with certain layers of dairy products and raw materials. There is also the cost of supplying supplies. In the preceding three years, the group of consultations to take up and work now, and suggestions should be given to take a special look at these matters. I have high hopes that something cognitive will come from that job. It's way too much at stake, about to change this and overthrow this system in a few days. I'm saying for myself, as long as we're making this statement, that if we can't trust that something good will come out of it, I don't know who to trust. Then you can have your opinion on the amount in the contract. Regarding the competitiveness and the environment, if I read here just what we say in the Commission opinion: ▪ The more part considers it necessary to investigate on the part of the State in particular how agricultural policy can further promote production directly from farms and products development based on origin or geographic particulars. In addition, a greater part gives the right to stimulate and encourage further application of a wide range of corporate fleas in the early development of farms, as well as the future of training employees in milk and carnivorous industry. There's a lot of trouble. I went to France last summer and I saw one national game. flew to Paris and took a train from there to Lyon, drove for several hours by train at a speed of 300 miles [300 km]. I have to say, I thought of Icelandic farmers and Icelandic farming. It was no matter when you looked out of the window, it was always just a smooth lane as far as the eye eye looked. Agriculture that runs there, since he can't walk without government politics, now I'm just saying to the marketing leaders in this room: How in the hell can they think we can hit any market law here without strengthening this article? [[Up front.]] There's been some debate on the export, that's such a low price for the meat being exported. We can't compare apples with oranges. We have to compare the same thing. The largest part of the exported meat is extra products. So we can't compare the prices, the totals, the meats that are exported or the items we sell here within the country. I think that by export, we're doing two things, we're creating jobs here on the land, supporting agriculture, and at the same time creating currency. We haven't taken him so far. I urge men of nature to accept this agreement, and this is our opinion of the committee. It may be that marketists feel that this is a high number, 133/4 billion in support of agriculture, but it will just have to be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u108	A respectable president. What a fine speech that was! It was best already. A senator said that we should trust men and support the case because there was a review of the agreement, but then he also said that anyone could have his opinion on whether the contract was for ten years or three. If the deal's till 10 years old, then what? So, senator, what guarantee do you give us that it can be revised? You've got to be very smart about that, son. Is this a three-year deal, or is this a ten-year deal? If it's a ten-year deal, the state will have to pay off that contract in three years if it's going to make a change in it, so we can't be sold here by some fake reexamination principle that doesn't mean anything. That's very interesting. A senator tries to make us in the United States to believe that we are opposed to farming support. We want to support agriculture, but all of us are responsible to make sure that it is as underweight as far as competition and free markets are concerned. Hv. A senator now knows the way to the sea, I know. Therefore, he knows that working in the market and working on open markets can only be good. I think it would be good for Icelandic agriculture, too. Hv. A senator must be absolutely clear on this: Can this contract be changed after a review, or is it just an opportunity to offer contracts? What is the accurate translation of the review after three years? Can the agreement be changed, or are humans bound by it as it stands?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I know it's clear that the Council has to vote on the deal in three years, so I don't know how to make it any clearer. It just says that he needs to be approved. That is what the committee added to it. We thought the review was a little hairy. The contract said that they should be revised, but there was nothing about the consequences, how they should react. I'm sure it's the General and Farmers. There's nothing certain that farmers will accept this. I'd like to ask you what. A senator en route: Is he comfortable with these numbers, these expenses? Is it the numbers that bother him? Does he find this high figure, 13.7 billion in 2017, which will then be dropped to 13.6 billion in 2019? I don't quite realize if it's the amount that pisses off. A senator. I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u110	A respectable president. The problem is the problem. A senator and the committee agree on whether this is a three - year contract or a ten - year contract. That's the problem. This suggests that this is being made up with some kind of playwrightry in order to claim to the nation that this is a three - year contract when it is actually commitment to the State to ten years. I feel that members of the committee must make a clear statement about it and be men to come here in a speech chair and make it clear to them that they think the State is unbound after three years. Well, maybe. A senator said it here in answer, yes or no? In this regard, it is interesting to hear the light of speech. The senator's account of the sums of money in this context. I'm willing to pay well for a contract that releases farmers from poverty traps, increases markets in this article, relieves the overmanagement of this system, increases productions in the country, and opens up competition in this article. [[Up front.]] I'm willing to pay a high price for it. There's not been a deal here, is there? Senator. The problem, however, is that this Member State does not seem to have any problem inviting the nation to come up here with expenses such as the most expensive and unfortunate Icesave Convention and have no preparation, no analysis of the terms of the contract. I don't know what word to say. Senators would have had such agreements if any of them had been making them; to go for a start, to negotiate for ten years, the sum is 200 billion, or so. A senator, with his customs protection, 200 billion, without laying down his contract goals. Then they're stuck with such a ruined document and a broken contract. A senator and his colleagues on a professional committee are struggling to stop this for weeks and know for themselves the shame, that the deal is so bad that you can't take it through the same way. I think they'll be a permanent disgrace to what they're doing. A senator and those who have worked with him. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u111	A respectable president. Hv. A senator can beat his chest to me and call us charlatans and all the names that come into his mind. But I'll just read to you. A senator here, so he can understand them: The more part suggests that the review is based on methodology, which includes extensive agricultural coordination, provision of revised agreements among farmers and of the General's legal payment, which may require this revision. -Adventment of the Generals in Law Change. How can this be clearer? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u112	Then why are they...?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u113	Hv. A senator stopped me from answering my question about whether he likes the amount that stands too high or too low?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u114	It's not too high if the deal...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u115	[[The president calls.]] Is it too high or too low? No, that's the point. Hv. A senator is not quite ready to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u116	If the deal is...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u117	I know exactly what to do. A senator naturally only wants this toll free and Icelandic agriculture to compete with subsidized agriculture in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u118	When have I said that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u119	All I know is that he's said it a thousand times, so it's not surprising to me. [[When have I said...?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u120	You're lying.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u121	But we, who want to land well, try to help him get his strength here, and we will cherish and protect him from a down-growing European competition.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u122	It is beneficial for one candidate to take part in the discussion. It's got a why. A senator now, but I miss that others will not come and express their opinion and discuss the matter with us. Hv. A senator spoke about exporting lamb. It's been said here that we're headed for even greater production. It's about 31,000 tons today, beyond domestic intake. They have been trying to sell it out of the country with varying results. This is simply the case in a smaller or compressed form: 31,000 tons of lamb and sheep are sold out of the country, and they are available this year, based on current gangs, from last year to last year's sales figures, about 1.51⁄21.6 billion dollars. However, if we take the 5 billion for the sheep's contract to 10,000 tons, we are told that it is 500 million per 1,000 tons. The 3 thousand tons we're moving out are getting them from government money in subsidies or exports, or whatever we want to call them, 1.5 billion. The conclusion is that this will bring nothing to the people. It's a zero. Farmers get their money from slaughter holders for these 31,000 tons, but we, trying to get the excess production out of the country, they give it back. That's what I'm talking about. A senator pleased with that conclusion? It is not true that the export is merely on some extra product, such as baloney or something like that, that is not correct. [[Foreground: I didn't say merely.]] I'm pointing out that in the ministry's answer to me, body parts are organized down, divided down as they are actually told, and then it's shown which countries they sell and what we get. [[The president calls.]] There's a little bit more than that. But my question is about the exports of 1.5, 1.6 billion, and then again what comes into the country, and the situation is zero.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u123	A respectable president. I thank my partner from the pro board, okay? paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller's question. This has often been the case with the committee, such as why. A senator knows. We can do it any way we want. If we view agriculture as a traditional export road, we will not be thrilled to see it today as it is and still to grow stronger. It doesn't look good, no more with the agriculture than with the fishing road. But if we're sponsoring the agriculture and some of the excess products are sold out of the country and there's currency, I'm afraid we can calculate it in a number of ways. There are secondary jobs, at what cost to produce these, and at what cost. How much money did it cost? Maybe that's how I think. What's the cost if we're producing sheep? How much would it cost to produce within the country? What if we sell it? How much did it cost? What did it cost to eat, feed, or what? That's how I want to calculate it. While we're staging some production and that's a currency, I don't think it's the worst thing that happens, even if it's on a pair. I'm not crying.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u124	Hv. A senator gave a very interesting point, at the cost of producing the 3 thousand tons we sell out of the country, at the cost of farmers, and at the cost of slaughtering, which is said to have a losses of 100 k. every pound of slaughter. He also mentions the value of moving in a lot of things to the country to produce these 31,000 tons, which is certainly correct. Hv. A senator has actually pointed out that the situation is worse than I did. I just took it down to zero, but what? In effect, a senator says that if so, it's more of a minus. The situation is getting worse with regard to the condition. A senator will come forward. This is what I did to talk about, and more members of the council have done, that what I fear is that there will be more overproduction in sheep products that need to be exported. We now know that foreign buyers demand a price reduction, so the case is going to get even worse. I'd like a later question. A senator into what he did as a subject and is opposed to removing the production of milk so that it falls under competitive law. Sheep farmers and sheep production depend on competitive laws. Arna in Bolunga is subject to competitive law. A cow is subject to competitive laws. MS, however, is the exception of competitive laws. Is there anything fair about that, Mr. Honorable President? I would like to hear the reply of a senator of equals, though the advance party is. How does he feel about this inequities?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u125	A respectable president. I must apologize for having spoken inexplicably. What I mean with currency income is how much money it costs to produce every kilo of sheep, beef, bird meat. What's the price, considering what we're taking out? [[Up front.]] I assume these bills are in the account as a matter of course. There was a senator. I think about the currency side, what we think of as one company, Iceland, what we're moving out, that's our income and the cost is what we're moving to the country. That's what I think. Regarding the competition and accession, I tried to point out that at Eagle's, they are not ready to collect milk and oblige themselves to buy milk from the whole country or to make a commitment to have supplies for these and the others. They are very happy to be able to call and order the ingredients of their production. I don't think it's fair for them to cry out that it's unfair to welcome the person who commits himself to collect all the milk in all the land and have so much food. It's gonna cost you. I think it's only fair that they're happy. We love foreign moviemakers, everybody thinks that's okay. I just like it. [[The president calls.]] We can truly favor men for responsibilities they take on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u126	President. In its historical history for the majority of professional street committees, the question was made. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson said agriculture was 1% of gross domestic product and food expenditures were 6% of the household's expenses. Somehow he said it at the same time. And said that there would no doubt be much discussion on this subject today. The council spent much time discussing agricultural and agricultural contracts. I can't quite figure it out. The senator was saying that these were not important sizes, and he did not deserve much discussion at the council. That senators who opposed these treaties were making camels out of their gnats. I can't quite tell if that was the message. But somehow I still thought so. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson asked today: "Do you think this amount is very high? ▪ 14 billion a year? Yeah, because there's a lot of stuff in there. A contract is being made for ten years, all of which is estimated to be nearly 200 billion. Yeah, I think it's a big amount, just like my party brother. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason said earlier, for a contract that is old - fashioned and does not seem to be the result of evolution in the important article in this country. It has been observed earlier today that this is a completely different agreement than the one introduced at the beginning of the year. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson did not say that in his speech today. He said it was a revolution dealing with farmers. The contract presented in January, told me that men who are much more informed with these matters than I was about being revolutionary, but then the deal was changed. This is not revolutionary. That's why I want to hear it. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson spoke very misleadingly here today. Today, a professional health committee preaches something called a national conversation. It should be done now after the contract has been made. It is expected that the council will agree with this agreement and then go into some national conversation. After three years, a national gathering should be over and something should happen. But what's supposed to happen then is very vague. Men's speeches here and before, have been observed that it is very incomplete what should happen after three years. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, head of the majority opinion, answered a question as to whether it was clear that the contract was only three years old, and if we could agree to another agreement, the General Assembly of the Icelanders or the State, and then said: "The state can always enter and always do so. That's exactly what's so hazy. I think this national conversation and the three-year deal, even though it's ten years old, is just some barbrell. Barbabrels are such that they're a little smart. When men are trying to dust people's eyes on this ten - year contract, which they are now talking about, in fact, whether this kind of contract is being made for so long, it's just a barbal trick to say, "No, it's not a 10-year contract, it's a three-year deal. And besides, they can't even answer me straight either. In fact, we members of the United States Congress with wind. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, in the lead, makes a move, which makes it clear that the duration of the contract is three years. If it is approved, there will be no doubt about it. Now, I would like to step aside from what happened earlier today in the matter of the day. paritaprevir It's Sigrimurs Andersen. She thought it was strange that if we thought the whole deal was bad, we would be willing to accept a three - year contract. I say, "It's better to have a bad deal of value just for three years than ten." That is why this adjustment proposal has been made, and hopefully it will be accepted, and people will take it to work. Then comes the mantran, who criticize the contract, to counter the support of farmers. A talk says that land is better in France than here. Indeed it is. Yet, no one is talking about the lack of support for agriculture in the country. It's a question of how it is done. It makes our protests about this. I believe that this should be done so that the funds were sound settlements and farmers could themselves determine what they made and that the state wasn't going into the industry alone. It's simply the way I believe these contracts and funding to farmers should be. Of course, not everything in this contract is bad. But in general, as is said at times, when the contract is all over, it's a bad deal. So it does not change the introduction of any special cheese and the distribution of the cheeses should be by lot. The distribution of other foods depends on auctiones, as it has been. It's just a doozy waving in the face of people. I described it in 1st. for the livestock contracts and plan to come back to the fact that I find it very strange that it is not somehow tried when such large contracts are controlled to control a little where each type of agriculture is practiced. I'm just saying, I don't think it's wise to get milk three times a week or what it is in the remotest towns of the country. I believe that living in such a place should be more supportive than driving milk cars there. I would also like to quote the words of Snorri, son of Baldursson, president of the Landskeeper, in which it is about the breeding of sheep. Snorri, in his article, says with permission from the president: ▪ Many have criticized the agricultural contracts for economic reasons. Fewer have maintained the fact that the majority of the workers'conditions for sheep raising are placed in place entirely unsuspectable land uses in the areas of the country where news is worst. These areas are mainly in the soda belt in central South Africa and Germany. There the greenhouse is just a fraction of what it could be in relation to the prevalent climate conditions, in many places much less than 10%. The contract assumes that this will only continue. Rather than, as mentioned earlier, try to direct the flocks of sheep, such as Hunsar County, which would require much more. No such thing is done in these contracts. I'd also like to include only the conversation that was between you and me. paritaprevir Kristján Möller and Páll, the Jóhann of Pálsson, earlier on the extravagance of a deportation lamb. I remember that time, because I wasn't born yesterday, when we paid exports for lamb. I'm a little afraid we're going into that track again. We're going to pay for funding to the sheep farms, they'll produce a lot more than we can square around here, and even all the tourists, for the foreigners don't think lamb is as good as we are, and they're going to pay for the production from the state fund. I don't think that's smart. I'm going to take a look at the Radarsell, the company that was fined about hundreds of millions because of competitiveness. It is to be noted that there is always talk of the sale of the Galasaman as an exception to competitive laws. It certainly is about production and other things. But she's not when she's on the market. Not about how she behaves at markets with others, such as Arna or Kú. At that time, the Radiator succeeds in breaking the competitive laws that cover her that are fined by hundreds of millions, and the director says that the consumers will pay for it. With the members of the United States, we offer a motion to release multiple sclerosis from competitive law completely depart. I'd like to quote only the part of the competition, though, that covers the Velacts. I'd like to quote an article by Bolli Héðinsson, who says, with the permission of a president: ▪ What would we like if e.g. The same is true of bakers, computer companies, or car halls. If a company [...] is to be cooperated with to take care of intermediate and commercial products in the most practical and inexpensive way possible for itself and consumers to do so, the Bolli is to quote an article after the accident. paritaprevir Jónasson's attitude, and then Bolli goes on to say: -- and uses the support of the government by the exception of competitive law? That may sound like av. does it not sound bad on paper, but does anyone believe that government protection is going to lead consumers to the diversity, prices, and services that the public demand for? No. Those who know should know that they are not. But it is human, and it may also be natural for those privileged to try to keep it. This is true of anything, especially professional spokesmen who are protected. When such protection is eliminated, the song is that the industry is so special that it cannot stand alone. It must be long - term management security, man. Investment is so expensive, and there must be sure that it all comes back, they keep going. But this is exactly what those who are not in a special protection environment need to do. Experience in this case shows that freedom and competitiveness in business lead to profits, better management, and a lower price to benefit from all consumers. The same is true of the milk industry, a respectable president. That's what I've been saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u127	Mr. President. Hv. Under his mid - public talk, a senator said that today this issue had been questioned as to whether the approval of this bill would remain a constitution. Hv. A senator did not give up on his view of it. Now that's how it works. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir is probably the highest authority in the constitution, and I have put much effort into changing the constitution, so I would like to ask her more about this. So I feel that after this discussion, after listening to the various members of the management team talk, all you can do is assume that this contract is worth ten years. Similarly, there is a brief view of a contract attorney who came to meet one of the Parliament's professional committees. It turns out that I feel that with the approval of the bill, there's quite a gap in authority from the Allied Parliament to a noncombatant organization, i.e. To the town council. As far as I can see, this bill is approved by the Generals to accept the change in livestock unless they have agreed to the Coalition. Also, it seems to me that for the Icelandic and Icelandic government, it is impossible to make special business contracts that include tollifications on imported agricultural products, except by the approval of the Coalition. I'll allow me to question for myself that this will pass the constitution. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, out of her expertise in the constitution, how she feels about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u128	A respectable president. I'm not going to read about it and answer that question with no yes or no. I don't trust myself to do that. But I've been working so hard on these issues, like hell. A senator rightly points out that I certainly believe that this question should be answered by a legal expert in the Constitution. I have in my work on the Constitution more thought about political rights and civil rights than in technical legislation on that subject, as I believe the Constitution is all too legally applied. On the other hand, I feel alone that the committee must call for a legal expert and professor at the Icelandic University administration and ask if this will last for the Constitution. Granted, there is a long - term contract. Like what? A senator might even ask if the Farmer Association has to be asked about customs. Well, then we've come a long way, I think. The General Assembly of the Icelanders must consider not betraying such authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u129	Mr. President. I'm like a whisk. A senator is a member of a board of directors and is concerned about the sovereignty of the Generals. The reason why I pause to raise that question. A senator who has been involved in the affairs of the Constitution is that such attitudes have been expressed by some who are not part of our political movement. One of them sat long in the Constitution committee. In fact, he was there as an attorney and as a lawyer, but he had served the most important office of the executive, he had been prime minister. He had also been chairman of a political party, which was then clearly the largest political party in the nation. It's the Þorsteinn of Pálsson's son I'm referring to. He has presented reasoned criticism of the authorship of the Allied authority to the town council, which is forced to accept such agreements to ten years of age. He's, for example. the opinion that the treaty was actually prepared for the General Assembly that it would not be to be the product of the exception of the competitive legislation enjoyed today by the milk industry. I feel that this is quite a long way worth selling power from the Council. I've always stood up for its sovereignty. This is one of the things to consider. Hv. A senator is clearly in doubt about this, despite his expertise in the constitution, whether this fermentation will last. It raises the idea that there will be a review between discussions on the committee. I give them another idea, which is this: The Parliament has a special committee, a administrative committee and a surveillance committee, including to examine such things. [[The president calls.]] This might be a matter to refer to the comrade of the son of Ögmundur, the son of Jónasson. paritaprevir and the chairman of that committee, as well as the whole committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u130	A respectable president. It was after me that was the first president of this committee, a management committee, forgetting that, of course, it must be a very serious matter to ask the committee to examine this. I think she would, then, probably do it by calling a professor of administrative rights and getting their opinion of this. It is a matter of concern that this dignified meeting, the General Assembly of Iceland, has at times been prepared to let others decide things for us. At times, though, it seems quite obvious that it is more practical, better. It is difficult for the general council to discuss except the big issues. However, ten - year - old farming contracts and agricultural contracts in general are one of the big cases, even though I found myself aggressor. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson would belittle it today, these contracts would be no big deal. But they are. Certainly, it is important to consider whether the International Assembly of Iceland is putting too much power on the town council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm glad to hear it, and I've had half my doubts about it. A senator wanted to support agriculture in this way or in this amount. If I get it right, she'll agree with the sum, and she'll agree that we need to build up the Icelandic agriculture, and I might reiterate it, the 13.7 billion that will be next year, I understand that it agrees with that amount. In fact, she wants to distribute them differently. She says that she wants direct support regardless of the production, that farmers will have their dues, whether they are producing or not. I would like to ask if I understood correctly that she would be willing to support them that way, regardless of her production. Then I guess there's a farm that's gonna get it. How does she picture it, what would it accomplish? Hv. A senator is not supposed to have to ensure that milk can be produced in all the land, that they will be sure to draw milk at all towns. Hv. A senator points out that there is some other way of strengthening the towns that are remote or not quite close to the neighboring farm. Nothing to guide sheep in the most suitable territory: I would like to ask you why. A senator is not, then, so when the strength is in the form it is there, when it aims at each kilogram, whether it does not control the production in the most favorable areas, probably the most relevant areas. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to have confirmation if I didn't understand it correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u132	A respectable president. I am glad that the senator understood what I said. I don't object to strengthening farmers. I'm not gonna tell you exactly if it's going to be 12 billion or 13 billion or 11. I'm not ready to say it right now. But what I'm saying is, it's a huge deal to offer the Allied Council 200 billion to ten. That's what I'm saying. And I'm also saying we should pay these levels differently. We're supposed to make a national community plan and pay for their farmers. It could be some time before growing more, growing more, or growing more, or something. I don't have a detailed description of it, but this is what I think the government should have lay down and looked at before they had a contract for ten years. The head of the trade committee earlier said that it was a revolutionary agreement. There is no revolution in this contract. It's an old decimal over and it doesn't look forward to any progress. That's what I'm against, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u133	A respectable president. I'm not an expert in the constitution, but it's about being a ten-year-old or three-year contract - maybe it's not working, I don't know. But that's what I believe. There are men who accept the basics and interpretation proposals with all sorts of warnings. It says here that the greater part highlights that we now agree to the bill is the first three years of the contract confirmed and set up a vision for ten years. This vision, it's just like that. A senator mentioned some form of community planning. This is a confirmation over three years, and it has to be confirmed by the Generals. This is a structured program, such as a transport plan, so people have a vision that will then be revised. I think we agree, me and what. Senator. That's all I can see. She wants to place special emphasis and control her concentration in growing grain and perhaps some organic culture. That's exactly what we have in this contract, which may be the main theme, to direct our payment further into such development and expand. It's not just lamb and milk that's being paid. I'm glad we're on about the same page. But like I say, if what. A senator is so good in the constitution, can't she agree that we can sign this contract in advance that the General needs to confirm it again in three years?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u134	A respectable president. I prefer not to have it in advance. I suggest what. A senator will join us in hosting members of the United States and vote with the adjustment that we make, which clearly states that the contract is valid for three years. Then we won't have to discuss whether this will last or not. Then it's done, the contract goes on for three years, and then the great national conversation begins, which should have been done before the government allowed itself to submit a ten-year contract, which it originally says is some revolution. And there's no revolution, there's no one. Of course, this report mentions something better in this contract. That's what I said. But in the big context, the deal is bad. Therefore, let's just keep him for three years, first that the senator agrees, initiate a national conversation, and bring a groundwork in three years. That would be the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u135	Mr. President. I was so happy already. A seafood and agricultural minister sought here tonight that I asked again for the word, was interested in continuing discussions, and after the incident with the minister, I also hoped that he would speak, since no candidate had spoken. Now we've got a what? paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson spoke, and he is well spoken. It is sobering, though, and perhaps time - consuming, evidence that this has been a conversation over a whole day of farming and farming and has continued late into the evening as the first candidate speaks. [[Up front.]] I'm just going to pause at the opinion of the majority of the section that discusses the customs agreement, which was actually a cause for debate earlier tonight and again. paritaprevir Andersen felt that this would be the case, farm contract, nothing, but more of the employment committees have a different opinion, for in his panel on a livestock contract, a detailed consideration of the customs agreement is given. I had reason to believe that more of the employment committee was going to propose to a special committee appointed in April. by the marine road and agricultural administrator to examine the effects of the implementation of the customs contract and the costs of farms due to new agricultural regulations and animal protection policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u136	As he himself did.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u137	The committee completed the job and returned a proposal to the minister. But I was very disappointed when I saw the final version of the Commission's opinion of a major part of the job committee. Now it is harmful that the chairman of the Committee or the head of the case is not here. I would have wanted an explanation of why the final version of the committee's opinion suddenly became available, so much more of the work committee is being pulled along to support the implementation of these measures. In general, this has been considered a minimal operation to provide a small amount of protection for the articles that are most affected by the introduction of the Toll Convention. But here, it's drawn very much with it. The other part says that it is important for the minister to pay attention to the suggestions of the group and to look for ways to respond to these comments. It is not recommended to comply. No, and they say: The majority of the items make a few comments to the suggestions of the group. All of this, the majority of the employment committee takes part in speaking in part of the suggestions given by the task force appointed by the marine economist and agricultural ministers. Why? Doesn't he think he needs it? Is it the result of a greater part of the employment committee that this is unnecessaryly generous, not needed to create a slight adjustment and shelter for the most impacted branches; pig culture, poultry farming, beef production, and after the occurrences of part of the production of the milk industry? I would have wanted an explanation for why that is being drawn up. There is a pressing behind the new government law forbids the use of earmarks, e.g. ... whomadeofan auction of tollvota. That is a simple advice. They just say that they agree to take into account the money the state receives. No earmarks. Just a political declaration of approximately The same amount of money will be spent to make adjustments for the articles. There's no use wearing a table like this for an old financial minister. This is bullshit and a pathetic turnout from the fact that it clearly does not stand to add another crown to this. Other than that, I'll be much better when the customs contract is discussed here tomorrow or any of the next few days. We members of the WG have discussed much about the environmental side of this matter, and we do so because we have great ambition for the agricultural environment and we want to see it green and become completely sustainable so that we can all be proud of it in all ways. If so, I do not want it to be misunderstood that we are not well aware that many things are already very well done in those areas. There may be reason to review this, but there are not many people here who speak in themselves about the agricultural situation of some authority, and there's a lot of shit going on in the discussion out and south. Of course, we are to be proud of Icelandic agriculture and what is best done there. This is where environmental issues are involved. For decades, I've watched how the country has become aware of a wake-up in the countryside about making money. Not only has it been done in recent years but farmers have made up the land, where most of the more than 35 thousand acres [35,000 ha] of unsurpassed land, and through the quality - control campaign, hundreds of thousands of acres have been sheltered through that arrangement. I've watched how farmers themselves do domestic animals, mollusks, and even ostensity, making a living in their own countries, in some lands have become a revolution to see home from their farms through land. Of course, the quality control that was introduced into the sheepfold has been of great importance and has resulted in much greater extravagance of the baits, reports, medication books, and so on. It is a good development regarding originating, and finally, it is moving on in some places, even at large farms. It's not just from farms in isolated cases anymore. My fine mountainer's company is now offering to sell its products, so they're completely localised, and you can only buy from any town in the region of a Mountain Lamb, and you can see pictures of the nest, and you can find some information about what the production will be like. Then I would like to mention the fine choice of sheep farmers, who have adopted and developed the policy of prohibitions against genetically modified crops and genetically modified feed. They even point. to condemn the Russians in that matter. However, the significant event was that one Pútín appeared and announced that Russia had imposed a ban on the use of genetically modified crops in feed. [[Up front.]] How could we want to be their conformers in these matters? This is an amazing development. There I suppose sheep farmers are on the front side of the field of agriculture. Of course, this is of utmost importance, and we should rejoice if this adds up - or if, let's not say when - when it adds up to the idea of prohibiting the use of hormones and growth-rich substances at its time, it adds that drug use is very low and under very strict observation in Icelandic agriculture, not using growth-gain medicines, etc. If there were to be such a ban on genetically modified plants in feed, would have been a long way to get around as sustainable and clean as it can become, and, of course, to a growing degree, hopefully completely organic. If this was the case with a good - looking effort in agriculture, support that humans move to as much as possible from fossil fuels to e.g. The electricity produced in a home generator could really be an impressive production for these substances. We have huge value in this area, and it's all right to remember when we're speaking here on the market and supporting domestic agricultural production. I agree with an authority that the support is not becoming large in the national context, with a direct state strength of perhaps 0.6% of GDP, 13, 14 billion of which about 0.6 to 0.7% of GDP is being produced today. That's more than 2% of the budget results. It is not that much in itself compares with how much in reality we receive in the form of food security, this wholesome product, in the form of thousands of different tasks, and again thousands of other activities, and a great deal of activity on this subject. This is often forgotten. If there is to be a new fablin, where perhaps a person's job is 100 to200, you always blow out all the other jobs and say, "Yes, yes, then you have so many secondary jobs and so much activity. Perhaps it is when agriculture is involved that it is quite large in the domestic product because it has a relatively high level of work. This is a general staff of articles as services of agriculture, processing its products, etc. In certain communities, the service industry and the service industry are actually trapped in the urban area where agriculture builds up in the countryside. All of this should be kept in mind when discussing these matters. Still, I've finished some part of my speech without knowing what I had planned to do, i.e. discuss better with the labour agreement and the tax agreement, but I'll just turn it around and go to it later when we discuss the customs contract itself, for of course the large sum of the context should be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u138	Mr. President. In no way can I agree that all those who have spoken have been making some kind of noise on behalf of the agricultural industry. At the very least, I want to be on behalf of theeppetary wing of the United States to make it clear that I have full faith in it, and I have held many talks here, and I have even sparked it here in my short answers today that I have faith in the possibilities there. I'll go for it. A senator referred to the leader of another State, the Russian president Pútín, who would have used himself to wipe out or at least to destroy. suggests that genetically modified plants and materials would not be used in agriculture. In Iceland, it's like we don't have one. Even the discussion about this is completely missing. The slant of agricultural equipment may be found in a foreign market area, where people go to look for something that is watery, food that is completely free, or as loose as possible to Witnesses, by the use of antibiotics, toxins, and other things less likely to have in the food they eat. We also know that one of the things that has changed during the discussion is: Using genetically modified materials, a large group of people will not buy such products for various reasons. I believe this discussion needs to be discussed. What I miss, just like what I miss. A senator, in the local labour agreement, aims to make Icelandic agriculture visible as the cleanst production of agrienvironmental products. It is based on the market application. But I'll be aware of that, for I've a little written about this on the little page I'm holding out, that there's a lot of resistance to it. [[The president calls.]] We need to discuss this matter. Hv. The senator must have agreed that she had to take it before that deal came here. [[The president calls.]] There is yet another example of lying on the side of those in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u139	Mr. President. First for a change. Well, I don't think I said everybody was crying. I told you, there had been some fussing about some speeches, or I meant something like that, i.e. I felt that people were spending much time with the problems and problems, and not all were happy for the future. I welcome all those who come here and have inspired speeches believing in it. With regard to the genetically modified foods and the general environmental side of the agricultural world, I am very interested in developing and making such a move. For example, if man had been laying the groundwork on it, and within this ten - year period, the whole of Icelandic agriculture would have been completely released, saying that it was forbidden to use food with genetically modified content. That would be beautiful. That is, in fact, the only thing that is missing for Iceland's agriculture to say: We have an exemplary case in every way because we are under ban on hormones and growth-promoting drugs, we have some of the least antibiotic uses, and we have the best monitoring of existing medications, and we have a special class of Swía and we find next to us, and we just have the genetically modified materials left. I know I don't have to teach you why. However, it is good to review how the discussion is developing now over the use of these genetically modified crops. They are especially altered to withstand the use of toxic substances. They have the tolerance of spraying an insecticide over the fields. What will happen in 103/415 years? Insects develop tolerance to poison. So, what do people do? Increase the dose. And companies like Monsanto and others are in the lead of this rather lucrative factory structure, or the other. Now public opinion is around the world, which is about to turn against this. I agree completely with what. A senator, not only lies there but in my opinion a rock for the Icelandic agriculture to stand on, so people would be streaming down to the country just to get food here if we could present it to the point where it really is clean. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u140	Mr. President. It's not often that I blame you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, whom I use in many ways to learn and often to improve my own speeches, has been found to be the case. A senator has a partial disc, obviously he has not read my article an exported form of Landsiography. It was a long - suffering dog that appeared in the morning newspaper, even waking up. Some attention was given to the model prayer because agriculture was instituted and exalted, pointing out the potential of purity. In this article, the production based on this purity was considered to be one of the food supplies for a national picture that promotes export. But I completely agree with what. A senator that if there is a negative tone in a debate about agriculture, it is primarily because the government, the members of the seminar, is not proud of Icelandic agriculture and never sees the opportunities in it. The media, who think of themselves as some sort of self - appointed farmer, and some have too much happiness to believe that it is for them, always has their heads in their laps for Icelandic farming. For decades, he has built up a system that I feel has encouraged the initiative and initiative in agriculture and has prevented what you sometimes see in young farmers what could lead to new productions. It's dead in the woods of a control system. As a result of the defenses against insects and against other evils, it is natural to note that although there has been only a small number of Icelandic larceny for the introduction of organic defenses into the closed glasshouse world. So I agree with what. A senator believes that men have missed out on a golden opportunity to shape a course based on that vision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u141	Mr. President. First, about an article on why. A senator in the Morning Press. It has nothing to do with my interest in reading a letter. A senator said she didn't look me in the eye, but the other thing is that I rarely read the Morning newspaper except for the memories. That's why. Second of all, about the candidates. Yes, there is much to say about them and their progress in agriculture. Let us take the will for the work and think that it will be well - intentioned, but there are more of them. It was now that when the livestock deal appeared, I was told by an unnamed senator quite close to them: Well, that's the same story, there'll always be some accident if we lose a career minister into the Aggressor. Third, about what we were talking about earlier, i.e. how proud we could be that we can bring about this type of agricultural work as a clean and exemplary branch in these areas. In fact, it's the only thing that's missing. Perhaps this three - year review plan could be used because it was not taken along, an evil brain that we would like to see, and it has been one of our critical factors not to take much better account of these matters at the same time; how we are going to meet the climate targets, the contribution of agriculture, and that we take the next steps fully to forbid the use of genetically modified substances, etc. Could we really be proud of them? I have often taken the garden and greenhouse production here as an example of sustainableity to explain to humans how great it is that we use a geologist and electricity produced by renewable energy to illuminate and warm up greenhouses, we produce vegetables; paprika, tomatoes, pickles and various vegetables; and it goes directly to the consumer's disk with minimal cost. What would happen if we did not have this article? [[The president calls.]] These products would be flown into the country with all its entrails. So perhaps the greenhouse and gardening work is one of the most impressive examples of sustainable objects in these substances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u142	A respectable president. Only for the coverage of a smidge. The head of the customs contract and the context of the livestock contract I share with him the opinion that gardening would be a very good example of seeing the entire environment, i.e. The public support is as competitive as possible. He just comes right in and people are free to produce, free to compete, and they can sell foreign vegetables at an expensive price but import because there is nothing contrary to import, man may import. Of course, that's what I think there must be a little lesson for us. I'd like to support Icelandic agriculture, but I'd also like him to have both quality and import. I'm concerned that this committee will turn down any comments from stakeholders, and then the Supreme Court's judgment on the problem of the current importase system. We in the United States will suggest a change in plans for all eaters to be distributed by lots. The reason is that because of the high price competition for salatans, Icelandic consumers will not get the benefits of the price competition. The contracts that Iceland has adopted over the last few decades on international agricultural trade are expected to do two things; ensure quality competition and price competition, and thus be like a window into the world around us. But it has been disabled here with the invitation system on the reservations. That's what I'm talking about. The senator does not agree with me on the importance of our efforts to follow this process and to have lots on the quatane, so that there will be a real price competition, which is an objection to the support received through the livestock contract?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u143	Mr. President. With regard to gardening, it is generally agreed that it was successful when the decision was made to lower the customs protection and to replace it with about that. the value of this support to direct support from the state, which is more than half a billion dollars, if I recall correctly, and includes bone pay due to the production of the peppers, gurgs, and tomatoes, and then subsidies of electricity and electrical energy into the greenhouses. There's been a lot of success. In many ways the gardening position is also stronger in this respect. It is a product with limited shelf life, the cost of transport relative to the value of the product, and many other items. In itself, though I'm not a market manager, I can say that it's good for everyone to have an extension, that's on fair competitors. Therefore, when more parts of the employment committee are reduced, I am shocked to ensure that domestic production competes on the same basis with quality, loyalty, and wholesome work environment. How are we to ensure that non-market chicken biscuits from Thailand produced by Myanmar slaves in that country but moved to Europe do not come in here as Dutch or do chicken balls, and how are we to secure what decent circumstances and quality they are made? This is the problem. As soon as these things were completely in the open, like a sledgehammer. A senator would put it, should Icelandic agriculture be stronger if they were to be at high cost in this respect, because, of course, it may be more expensive to live under the strict rules of administration, living with an Icelandic remuneration environment and then competing with Thailand and Myanmar. There are things like this that must also be kept in mind. For the tollcane then I can totally agree that there is a reason to review that arrangement. Here, people have ideas to invite the Tollcanians to serve more often each year and at lower doses to reduce the risk that large people can beat them at once or two new invitations a year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's worth the experiment to look at it. Of course, that has often been the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u144	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's concern about the importance of competition, but here, of course, we are also dealing with home - to - house problems. We've been undermined by the source systems in our own agriculture since the 1934 milk sales laws when a bad scurry and a good scurry was stirred into one pot, and no one knew where it came from. It's the skunk protection tradition in Icelandic agriculture that's killing us today. The most important thing that this article needs today is traceability, more certain of where it comes from. That's all gold. But we've neglected it. The system has neglected to build it as a base factor in its product development chain and in the processing chain over the last few decades. It's coming on our back now. I think if we were there, I'm convinced that people would want to buy a good Icelandic product, but that also means that you have to have everything on top. The same pig prayer that now complains that no one knows where the pig will come from and be brought in is the same pig farmers who would not let TV take pictures in their own farms last year. It's not working. I think there's a lot of want to do that in Iceland, I know a lot of people who are willing to pay double price for pork that they know comes from well centuries of animals from families in which something is guaranteed, not just stories saying that there's no drug use but because it's guaranteed that it's not. So the source label is an opportunity for Icelandic agriculture. In this contract, I miss the fact that there is no further progress in helping people break up this old Soviet superpower system and focus on the origins. It contains a real golden goose for future Icelandic agriculture. That's what I'm sure of.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u145	Mr. President. We do well to agree that to the extent that humans are involved in competition, it should be on a reasonable basis. But I am deeply concerned that we are in a bad position to ensure that we do so and even not even ready to do what is necessary. Let's just take the pig and poultry industry here in the country that's now preparing and starting to work on implementing a very strict rules of rules and first-rate animal well-being requirements, which is good and that's how we want it to be. However, the article should be given a measure of support. It should go according to the customs agreements to compete for the increased import of domestic birds and pigs, either from the European Union and neighboring countries, where people receive a much higher part of the cost of making rules directly from a common fund or all the way from Asia. Then there is the problem, the working environment of the article, the content of the product, etc. Our situation is that the Food Organization does not even have the money to be shown properly, let alone to analyze them, to see what kind of products are involved. That's what we have to think about. I agree that the origins and traceability are very important. It's gone too slow. In fact, great experiments, such as the East Lamb in the East, have been on fire for several years. Now a mountain lamb is on its way again, trying to get people to buy straight from towns. [[Up front.]] I hope it's going well, and hopefully it'll get a good business to enjoy that it's paying off and getting ready to do this. That's good. Finally, because of what? A senator named the pig farms and the reports that have sometimes come from them made me happy to see just yesterday, I think from animal doctors that already a great success, and now it is clear that the painful problems and other causes of news coverage both last year and last year's meeting have been very sad. Let us hope that there is a possibility that things will be developing in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u146	Mr. President. Now that it is quite a long time ago, I miss some of their reasons. The members of the Independence Party, who were gauntleted today and were quite critical of this bill, show themselves here to be measured. I have something to do with their speeches to examine and to see the consistency in them. Yet, I am glad to see here an ex - president of the police club smiling in the hall. He always makes us happy with his presence and quick answers, and I have no doubt that he will also participate in the discussion when the evening and possibly the night pass. I'm one of those who thinks it's going to have to do good with farmers. Just because I'm critical of this deal doesn't mean I don't want to support any Icelandic agriculture. I want to do it. In all the countries around us, the support of the government is considerably greater than here or in many lands at any rate. I believe there is great potential for Icelandic agriculture. But one of the things that has plagued him and held him down is that those who speak for him, especially in these sales, especially the talkers of the Foreign Party, have never seen the sun in the latter years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u147	Don't be ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u148	Don't be ridiculous, says why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, who started his career as a member of the Council of advance, which declared it here, and this was part of the Government Strategy Declaration, which came in on the basis of the Action Party, to make an assessment of the potential of Icelandic agriculture. I've been waiting for that assessment for all this terms. She's not here yet. It was to map out the potential available by Icelandic agriculture, including the U.S. with regard to the worldwide population development in which it is clear that in the coming decades, billions of food needs to be added, as well as to the purity in which we can say it is, and a position that is relatively low on the original bill, but it shows much more clearly in the committee view. But before what? paritaprevir Sæmundsson disturbed me. I was saying that for many years, for the sake of Icelandic agriculture, it had hardly been visible to the sun from the candidates for the move. I just want to tell you right here that since our good partner Guðin Augustsson was a agricultural minister, no one has talked from the forward party about agriculture and its potential with the same vitality and natural joy as the Guðni of Ágústsson had done in his time and still does. It's just necessary for it to come out here. It's a little strange that there are senators from the left movement, the green productions and the farm wings of the Allied Party, which, in particular, become available here in these sales to raise the possibilities of Icelandic agriculture, possibly with the exception of the good crash. Senator Þörstein, Sæmundsson. But I've felt a lack of it. I was waiting for the ultimate power. For almost three years, the office of agricultural and marine espionage ministers was serving as prime minister in this government's policy of building up agriculture. I believe for my part that I have put my whole hand to this work. I began the contract that will be discussed here when this case is taken up, i.e. The toll agreement between Iceland and the EU, which creates marvelous opportunities for Icelandic agriculture. It also happens, just to recall, that I made a vacation deal between Iceland and China that literally takes away all customs for Icelandic agriculture against China. You also ask yourself, " What has the highest power? ' The minister of the forwarding party made it possible to raise a portal that was then opened? Nothing has happened. A fine man has been there more and less, although he has lost his foot in a new ministry ever since. The right to recall it before reason. Then I also made a deal with the Russians, which made it possible for the U.S. deportation centres to become part of the stock market, resulting in the loss of the potential for exports there. So I'm the opinion, and it's a prince's position on my part as an expansive, that the United States has to put money on Icelandic agriculture, but it doesn't matter what it's done. Here we are talking about an enormous amount of money. We're talking about 200 billion in 10 years, that's a big amount. I came here wet behind the ears, robber, into the 1991 council. Shortly thereafter, I would vote here with a domestic contract and at the time, as we have noted here today, what was proposed for the Icelandic agricultural at that time was nearly 5%. Admittedly, there is 4.5% here. I remember that in 1991 it was about 5% compared to national production. The common group then, cognizant who was sometimes counted from the days of Gylfi Þ. Gíslason of the fiercest critics of the Icelandic agricultural field, stated: It is good to remember that this is a large amount of money, and we will aim to avoid increasing it to the point where it will be proportional in terms of increasing domestic production rates. This has been true for more and less since then. I also pointed out that the Conspiracy at my head, not to everyone's great joy, supported the contract that the Guðni of Ágústsson had made, and we spent the night reasoning, but she supported him, 14 of 16 members of Congress, just so it's perfectly clear that we have a career in this case. That's why I can put it here, and with conviction that we've been on the road with those who believe it's inevitable to support Icelandic agriculture within the right limits. I can honestly say I don't lose sleep over the amount of money here, but I would give my left hand if I could determine how it was distributed. I am thinking that it would be much wiser with regard to the development of agriculture that they would be spent, for example. to pay farmers simply for their habitations and to keep the land inhabited, to keep it in order and to protect the land. Then they could produce what they wanted to be their own responsibility. Well, that's my opinion. With this deal here, it's simply that I can't support it for various reasons. First of all, I believe that farming is very important, like cosy. paritaprevir In other words, Páll's Árnason years expressed it here, in quality and market terms, that he may be sustained by competition. It does, however, happen. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask is not exactly the strongest advocate of the competition in these halls, however, he described it very clearly right down to how competition would have led rather to the growth of our climatic strength in the way we have agreed to strengthen it, or that is how I understood it. It's an example I think people should learn from. I am their opinion, as the Conspiracy did, that they should be excluded from the competitive laws of the milk industry. This is mainly the exception that has led to the development of agriculture and parts of it having become very uncomfortable bite bones and have exposed it to unpleasant lights. From every watch, it is positive to do so. Second, I believe that it is unworked to bind the hands of the Generals now just before elections for large amounts of money, in terms of agriculture policy, that a new Council will not be allowed to arrive at a clean table. All right. I can accept that, and it would be very important to me if I were in trouble that the next term would be revised. In other words, if it were completely arranged and stated that after three years this would be revised, it would help me very much because I believe that now in the end of the election it is right to finish this matter. Now, however, it has been said that there is a great doubt. First, it was that the initiative of the United States and the fine president sitting behind me was called to a meeting with a professional employment committee specialist from the University of Reykjavík on the contract. She clearly stated that if it was to be unchanging, the contract would be revised in three years' time, it would have to be made up of a joint statement by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Township Association. It's not in the way. Another way might be possible, which is simply to insert it into the bill via a modification process. It's not done. Instead, like an old flotation in the majority view, the situation is confused and told to adopt some kind of nationality in order to make peace with the future. Of course, you can ask: " How does it happen here in a few days, weeks, within the Generals'discussion that we reach that conclusion? Why was this not done in order to prepare the situation? You cannot help but reason that the government, the government, has failed to succeed in the matter and the World Council, the greater part of the committee, is trying to break up its semicorruption. All right. They deserve to be thanked and respected. Now, I'm really asking why. paritaprevir Uncle Níelsson's son, why isn't it put in the bill? I can answer the question. That's because the advance party doesn't want it. The media intends to create a position to confuse this situation because it is possible that if the case seems so, if there's a lot of confusion in this conversation where candidates, including the peasant who wants to see it as a ten-year contract, it'll be a 10-year contract. It's just that kind of thing. I'm thinking that if it does, it's gonna screw up very close to making the constitution a mistake. Just to remember it before reason. paritaprevir The armour of Brynjar the son of Níelsson, who was in good health in silence, came here at his party sister, and a rival, from a court of law. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen, up in a high school speech. She said it was her deal, and she said she thought it was a ten-year deal. She said it was totally clear. What did another platoon brother say? paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, ha. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason? Yes, he was here in two short speeches. In the first, he said he believed it was a three-year deal. When I walked over the good man who is here with the most discerning men, he said that it was a custom thing to say. I'm asking why. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son: Is he happy that in a majority - wing field, there is a possibility that this will be a reexamination? I'd like to ask you, too. A senator: What is his position on whether this involves too much even excessive exposition under the authority of the Generals? I've traced it here, the meaning of the constitutionrs, such as the former chairman of that category. paritaprevir Beggar Níelsson, who serves as a member of the council, has suggested that this bill is likely to be agreed, or, in fact, taken by the former head of the Independence Party, could not change farms for the next ten years without the approval of the Basis. He also made it solid that the Allied Parliament would have trouble validating foreign agreements involving customs on imported agricultural products that would be added to those already available but with the approval of the Coalition. I don't think we should hand over that kind of power. We talked about this, me and what. paritaprevir It's Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. He's talking about it earlier tonight. Our conclusion was that it may not be possible to say. But this is one of the points that must be considered on the topic committee. It hasn't been examined. I don't have a particular requirement for that. In other circumstances, I might have used my small power to demand that the administrative and surveillance committee take this into consideration because I am of that opinion, and it has been my attitude, that in the case of some kind of position that arises where the Constitution may be a mistake, and at the level of the games, the constitution should have no doubt about the benefit of the doubt. Third, it is part of my opposition or because I cannot pay this contract my vote in this situation that I believe the policy in it is out - of - date and out - of - date. It does not take into account what all of us in these sales are trying to achieve, which is trying to work out the common objectives of the nations on climate and environmental issues. It doesn't work. It will come, for example. clearly stated when you read the majority opinion that these are mentioned, but there are no time frames and no limits set in these materials. In other words, it cannot be determined by the way this contract goes in that direction. So I come to others and smaller matters that concern the greater context but are important to me, of course, the sheep's flocks. I'm an amateur sheep raiseer in Iceland. I think it's very important because it's the birthplace under the eastest settlements, such as the North Council, the Devils, and the Beaches. I think, for example. that, as I am concerned and have taken up many times here during the last 25 years, here, the proposals made with other members of the council, and applied them for my good as Minister of commenteds at their time, Aarneshrrepur, would be ill out of this sheep's agreement. No one attributed it better than that. paritaprevir Stygrim J. Sigfússon, who pointed out that 70% of the system of the built - in 10% water halls of the case would be canceled and then the fact that this agreement, along with a view, would lead to the milk industry that farmers of smaller farms would put away their current activities but certainly make use of their own investment, their housing, in order to take up some kind of flocks. Thus the pressure will increase, as well as increase, from the common pot, or increase the Olympics to that pot, as well. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's stilgrim called it, so he'll cry out for those who receive it. I don't think so, at any rate, I've put that attitude in the councilrooms, but also in conversations today's answers, that this will lead to the farmers who live in the areas where we are most likely to strengthen, i.e. The warmest areas, would be worse than the others. It has been observed during the discussion that when the agreement was made, there was not a man on the farm service who caused experts to see where the output would be, the result. It was not until the sheepfold's own organization had it done after the contract had been made; he was half-carned. It was found that this was exactly the case. First, it is reasonable to assume that the sheep'flocks will lose so flatly during the contract period 19% of what they would otherwise have received. I don't like it. It's an article I'd like to support because I'm a friend to the scattered, castaway people. Second, the assessment of the sheep's prayers was also concluded that those living in the rural settlements were to be made worse than the rest. I just don't like it at all. I had already killed that the contract does not have any particular policies, e.g. to further strengthen the flocks in these places, to direct them to areas that are most distant from the areas where vegetation is stronger and the roots are deeper, the soil increased. I would have liked to see such things there. Of course, sixthly, and that which is not of any importance is the fact that the agreement with this agreement was almost nothing. This agreement was first made within the smoke - filled rooms of the forward party. Current level. At that time, the prime minister was reassigned with the contract. Since then, there have been all kinds of back-room grovels that the council has not yet been allowed to study with perhaps a handful of executives and individual members of Congress. But this is a contract made without the farmers themselves, without the consumers, without the fact that we senators have received it to a sufficient extent. I don't think that's good. I want to pray for the best. We need to strengthen them. I will not vote against this contract, but I will not be able to support it for the seven reasons I have listed in my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u149	A respectable president. Listening to what is bad is always refreshing. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphéinsson talk, though it is only hearing the sound of his voice, and even if you do not really listen to what he says. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator who served as a member of the national government of 1991◯1995, spoke of the changes he would like to see on the agricultural contract: How is it that he and his team have never made any suggestions in this regard? During that period of time, from 2007/2013, if I remember correctly, the livestock contract was extended year by year and never dealt with anything. Then why can't we? A senator standing here talking about how everyone else should make changes in agricultural policy when he has had all these years to work on the scales so that it can be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u150	Mr. President. The answer is simple: Because there was an emergency in Iceland, because at that time there was trouble. A senator referred to the government, and the community was all too busy building an Icelandic community in ruins. [[Up front.]] That is why the contract was extended from year to year, actually in a way that reduced the amount of farm money by 5%, if I recall correctly, to the point of much concern. But to their credit, they agreed in agreements against his being prolonged, when we were busy with it in part during the time of my partnership and my reason. A senator cuts down all over the community. That's why. Of course, since then there have been climate change, I mean that Iceland and other countries have agreed to achieve specific goals, such as in climate protection. It didn't really happen until last year. I really miss the fact that this contract is not part of.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u151	A respectable president. In the ruins of rocks - yet he talks. A senator that the agriculture and agricultural policy are actually in ruins, but during the demolition, there was never any suggestion that something could be done better or that there was a difference between the time of failure, the time being destroyed. But this is one of the basic works of the nation. A respectable president. With all due respect for the highest response. A senator thinks it's the only way to turn himself out when he answers why. A senator and his party have done nothing to change the agricultural business here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u152	If I recall correctly, Mr. President, I may have misunderstood. A senator, who was not extended year by year, was extended twice during this period. The first time, actually, it was when I was a member of a government class or something. paritaprevir Ragnheins the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, we extended him. I was wrong that we would have reduced our fees by 5%, that was about 10%. Later in another government I had in the same country, it was extended again. We were still in a crisis, but new words, such as, for example, were being recorded. Trying to steer people on new paths, innovation in agriculture, such as. grain grow. I know why. One prominent woman has noticed in the news that things have gone very well. And so I would like to thank her for the beautiful comments she made here, even though she does not like the content of my voice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u153	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is the most clear word here in this hall often and often; therefore, it is not quite clear to me what he meant in his speech earlier. He started it correctly by saying that the official support of Icelandic agriculture is in itself no more guess than he is in the countries around us. But then, in his talk, he only later said that it was about playing huge amounts of money. Now I just have to admit that I didn't quite understand what it was. A senator was going and whether he meant it, i.e. that there is no tremendous support, or whatever. I'd like to know if there was more to it than that. A senator, that there was no great support, nor would there be giant heights.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u154	Mr. President. Wait a minute. A senator apologizes for not being clear enough in my case. But it's his fault, because when I started my speech, he started this round, he made me the other way. [[Up front.]] We're not perfect. But to explain this, it's like I'm thinking, if you look at any of the countries we're comparing with, I don't talk about land like Norway, but on average, I don't think the support for Icelandic agriculture is any more here, at least not much more than in most of these countries. He's smaller than in Norway, I know, but he's on a pair like that with many countries. Of course, that doesn't change the amount. It doesn't matter how they get spent. This is, as I mentioned, 200 billion in ten years. We need to be fully aware of how we use this amount of money and should do it in an effort to direct our agriculture in directions that we can combine to be more successful for him, for us and for the world around us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u155	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This is one thing because he says that it is not clear how this money is being spent, and he discussed that it might be more expedient to distribute it so that it would go to rurality, and then it could only produce what they could think of. This is the European Union because the European Union has its agricultural scholarship inside a sort of pendulum, where no human will be able to hold on to the level of funding. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council whether he feels that it is not enough because of being tried, at least in the commission work, to focus the light especially on hard - to - face areas and areas that are being hit, whether or not. In this contract, a senator does not feel that it is enough to try to ensure that this is the most exposed and pressured.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u156	This has been shown in the discussions today, for example. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon traced it very closely, how this contract affects sheep culture, and has been observed even in the past. In the report of sheep farmers themselves, it seems that some grassy areas are getting worse than the others. I'm not saying that it should be put more money into this, except so, but I'm saying: Then divide it differently within this group. I'm of that opinion, and I'm not afraid to say that the farmers who live in areas that are not in any danger, it's all right to reduce their support, but it may, in turn, be more supportive to those who are in the petting areas. That must have been my opinion. This may not be the Korean attitude of candidates, but I believe this is the way it should be. I want to use this money if we are at other times using it to strengthen the foundations where the foundations are weaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u157	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It's not boring to listen to him, it's kind of more fun to watch him, I have to say it. Hv. A senator is the second cohesor who comes up in a pita today, which I've heard in any direction, and agrees with this magnitude but would have liked to share it differently. He just wants to put strength on the ground, and farmers can produce what they want, and that's why they just don't make anything. Is it really the Union's policy that she wants to distribute this amount on the farms, along with the geographical areas and farmers, whether they make it or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u158	Mr. President. I forgot to do that, and I'll be honest with you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, but what? A senator is, in effect, asking me the same question as he did. Yeah, I don't deny that there's a little bit of the European Union in what I'm saying. This is not far from what humans have been running there. I think it's more successful and it's where we should be going, using money we think we're using to keep our country on the ground, especially in the areas where it's going, and paying men to live there. They decide what they'll do there. The land is to be inhabited and to be protected and maintained. I think of agriculture as part of the country's infrastructure. He'll do me, for example. has the power to travel about it because I stay with farmers. But in our time, he has become a invaluable support for another tow, far more powerful in terms of currency, a travel service.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u159	A respectable president. That's where we're picking up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u160	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u161	To those who are forward, we want to strengthen them, to help them themselves. We want to help people to cultivate the land. We want to control the growth process and for producing something, not just paying people to live in the places in which they live. That's the difference. But I'm glad to hear it. A senator believes in exporting commercial agricultural products. It will not be said of his associate, Kristján L. Möller, who, if any of those products are exported, almost not sleep on the crowns that go to the farm. I'm glad he believes in exports and opportunities there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u162	Mr. President. Although population growth will be reduced in the world from the middle of this century, the total number of people will still be 3◯4 billion to the 7 already. We're going to be 10 billion. According to a United Nations report, the world's food supply needs to be replaced by 70 to 90%. This is what I'm watching, including the purity of a Icelandic agricultural field. So I think there's a way to find it, I call it a ledge, a what. A senator called it a solid rock. I must criticize the hurry-up party for not having lived up to what he promised at the beginning of the season, to present the policies and plans of Icelandic agriculture such as Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, chairman of the Agency, here in a stunning debate, the first one he delivered. I'm still waiting for it to be done. So finally, Mr. President. I don't know what to think. [[The president calls.]] First comes the second. A senator, saying that my voice sounds beautiful, but the contents are awesome, and then there's a sharp one. A senator says that watching me is more fun than listening. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That's the first time they say it to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u163	V.E.G. President. I like it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is a lovely man, both nice and beautiful. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator said that he was a supporters of a short farm plan, on the United States Aggressor's wings. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] I know why. A senator is a heavyweight, but is there anyone else in the Conspiracy on this wing? That's not what I'm hearing. [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]] I want to know, because of what. The senator said he was in favor of support, why he can't vote with this case. He listed a few things yes, most of which I thought more recently, turned to the environment like this. [[Up front.]] But is this case not better than the existing agreements? [[The president calls.]] Would the senator rather extend them, or could we not simply negotiate in another way on these environmental issues that he discussed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u164	Madam President. I'm kind of embarrassed about the tuxes I've been using here. This is the first time in a 25 - year career that anyone has been making in this sermon and that I am wonderful. If you see good, then what? Senators, they almost shed tears in their eyes. But I'm not the only one on the colony's wings. For example, I'm pointing to the whale. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. paritaprevir Árni ago, Páll the Árnason of Aarna, who spoke extensively as I did. Hv. A senator says they were rather the odd reasons I gave, possibly, that is a matter of taste, and he has every right to feel that way. But just one thing is completely enough for me, one thing is totally enough for me not to be able to vote this vote, and that is the fact that I don't believe that anything will guarantee that this contract will come up with a review within three years. I believe that when men are making decisions like this just before the election, there is no choice but to blow the whole thing wide open that a new council will be allowed to deal with this and to come to a clean table. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u165	V.E.G. President. I can totally agree that it is right to have it clear, so there is no doubt that three years from now there will be a three - year review. We've previously had contracts for longer than one year, to two years, there's no difference between two or three years. Witches do this every year, if I remember correctly. I agree with that. If we fix this, I think there's a good reason why. A senator to support this matter because it is far better than the present arrangement. Surely we can agree on that. We can make environmental agreements with farmers in this regard, can't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u166	Hv. A senator must realize that he is negotiating with a dead man. In case of a moment. A senator is offering that the bill will be changed and that it will be absolutely certain that the contract will only be three years old, I'll offer him a counter proposal. If he also accepts our viewpoints on the competitive act, I'll talk to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u167	V.E.G. President. There was a number of demand in the hall tonight, after the candidates. I see that the look of pleasure is moving across the edge. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon when one piece is placed here in a symposium.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u168	No small thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u169	No bars, just next door. paritaprevir The Árni that I am about to inform Árnason of immediately one thing because of the reason. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask correctly stated that today the discussion had been a bit over the world and that many people had not talked so rationally or knowledge of agriculture. I wanted to mention it, although it's not my job to advertise an individual company, I singled it out in my speech before. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason spoke of him as knowing a lot of people who would like to buy expensive pork if they knew where it would come from. That's easy. That's easy. A senator, to get rid of such things in Iceland because there is an e.g. one resident in a South country not only means the production of the company's name but also makes the grain that the piglets eat. I'll tell you what. A senator will know that I don't want to do advertising in the II Parliament's deliveries. It is crystal clear that agricultural production's speciality and agriculture trade are high and most sacred because most countries around the world are somehow sponsoring their agriculture. This has been said in the matter of several causes. Parliaments support a total of 1% of the gross domestic product by customs protection. This ratio is between 0.8 and 0.9 in the OECD countries, so Iceland does not stand out as different. It is true that 13 billion by bone pay or direct production grants are quite a number. The number established by the European Union strengthens its agriculture at around 8 levels. A billion dollars. It's outside a regional scholarship, like in Finland and Sweden. It is clear that in a harsh country, we cannot run agriculture without manufacturing. That's for sure. I mentioned the European Union. It is not enough that they have paid eight of you. Billions of this year to farm, they sent 700 of you to each cowbed in the European Union. Call this year because milk prices fell down and prices on milk powder, 700 of you. Call every cow farm in the European Union. This is more than 1/3 of the European Union's entire budget. What I feel is a little bit lacking in the discussion today is why the state is sponsoring agriculture by manufacturing grants, etc. This is done in behalf of consumers, making sure that consumers in these countries have access to agricultural products at a good time. In this regard, I'd like to remind you of a very clear article by Marinó Njálsson, who reminds me of is about three years old, where he's going over this very matter. They say it's taxpayers who pay the bill. You're absolutely right, the taxpayers pay the bill. But then let's go over who the taxpayers are, because that's only about that. 54% who pay income taxes in Iceland, others don't. Agricultural concentrations are essentially equal in order to enable them to enjoy less productive agricultural products. This is an old and new fact here in Iceland. You shouldn't forget this. Also, I would like to review the production capacity because people have been through many areas of the discussion, discussing both customs protection and the growth of production. I'm going to try to limit myself in this production speech. There's been a lot of things going on today in the council members that I don't understand. I'll admit, for example. I don't understand what happened. paritaprevir In our speech today, the apostle Páll, the aged Árnason of Athenians, was that in this contract there was overmanagement. I can't figure it out. A similar view was made in the case of the Jews. paritaprevir It's Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir. She said that farmers should be able to do what they could think of doing. But what did she say next in her talk? No, it is not necessarily best for farmers to be drawn from milk in remote areas three times a week. I'd like to hear what the farmer in Botni, Sufjörður, has to say about this. She also said that sheep should be brought in from the jackbells to the Huns, but farmers can still do what they want. How does this work out? I can't figure it out. It also appeared in a speech of one fine senator here that the basis for the agricultural policy in Iceland in 1940 had not been established because of a decrease in legal status in Iceland. It's a lot of science. In fact, this is called production growth because while legalizing a small number in one sector, production may be more efficient than before. I know that one area in this country has, like, one. The number of milkacquireds from 160 to 60, with a much higher rate of production in these 60 than in 160 previously. It's the same thing. It's the growth and economy. One of the factors that have been associated with this economy is the reduction in slaughterhouses, the reduction in farmhouses. It may bring us less expensive products, but I have to admit that the situation now on the western half of the country is of great concern to me. There is no slaughterhouse on the western slopes of the country, and now we think back to Sufjörður. The farmer in the Valley of Waters in Suganda has to send his slaughter money to the Hagmbtanga River, or Sheep River, a 600 - mile [600 km] way, and money is being run all this way. This borders on animal nature and also brings us worse products because even if the money is to be kept in court overnight, it does not go away because the stressed stocks are being slaughtered that yield worse products. This harmonizes with what happened. paritaprevir PállÁrniÁrnason What questions remain to be answered? Of course, we should insist that we know where the product comes from. This compression of slaughterhouses is e.g. Buildings are now based on European requirements that are extremely rigid. Happily, there is one exception, from which there is a carpenter's house in Skaftfells County. I kind of hope that some of these activities will arise, e.g. in the western part of the country, where there are very good pasture and sheep, they are very good, and they are very precious, and the flesh is very fat - bombed and good. Of course, we want to know where we're from. That is why it is a highly respectable endeavor for a company on a Copasker that has now enabled humans to know the source of the product they buy. I think there's a lot of parishion for us Icelanders. It is natural that we Icelanders produce very good products. It doesn't matter whether we're talking about lamb, beef or poultry and pork and/or vegetables. We're using very little antibiotics. We're not using poisons at greenhouses in Iceland. That's where the possibilities are huge. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the panorama of the greater part, the first review of the contract in three years will be considered to increase the selection of vegetables produced by the Icelandic garden farmers. It is very common for me to feel that humans speak highly of the success of the gardening agreement. He has done well, however, the fact is that vegetables that did not fall under the contract are as expensive or even more expensive as it used to be because humans are natural, i.e. merchants, making up for what they cannot contribute to less expensive vegetables produced within the country. That's what we need to put under. Then we can come up with another subject, which has been here for a while, i.e. The competitive principle of agricultural production and the lactation of the Galacing business from competitive legislation. On this point, I'd like to say that since that release has been granted, at least the goal of improving farm prices has fallen substantially and the price of consumers has fallen substantially. On the other hand, those who have been in charge of the Lacties trade over the years have been unable to handle the role they received by getting rid of competitive surveillance and by acting in a clean way to small manufacturers in unnecessary matters. The other is so different that I am a great spokesman for taking up competitive laws in the country over its head. I guess I won't be able to do that during my present stay at the Council, but I'll at least record it the next time I'm on my way here if no one else does in the meantime. It's one thing to disagree that one party has a 98% position at a market like the Lactsaman, but if we're going to start to interfere with it, and I'm very involved in replacing the market-sponsored company, the mind is looking for the biggest shopping chain in Iceland that has a 60% market share. As the slaughterers have dropped the price to the sheepfold or reported a reduction, I wonder if it could be in some way due to their belief that the market, i.e. The markets will not take that reduction or take an increase in lamb's meat and bring their emphasis on production to other products. This agrees with what I was saying about vegetables and vegetables. Iceland's supermarkets behave that way, for example. Carnivores that it is unworked, but it is not possible to get farmers to talk about it, not under a name, because they fear it if they relate how this treatment is. There's been a lot of talk about the duration of this contract. For example, on the job board an expert on the field of teaching at the University of Reykjavík made it clear to us that the contract could be taken up every year because it is always subject to each year's budget. Thus, in 2009, people could enter this agreement, actually under very difficult conditions, and reduced it one - sided. It is clear that although the contract is a ten-year deal and I'm just gonna say it here, it's a 10-year deal, it's a very powerful legal reexamination principle that comes in after three years and then again. There is no doubt in my mind that the Council can influence this agreement twice during this ten - year period. I now know that they've committed the state to a longer time than this in big cases, and no one's really pulled that off. I'd like to remind you that there are a lot of 25-year contracts that the state's government did during good times and gave up government agencies in expensive rents with unuttered contracts to 25 years of age. This has caused serious problems in many government institutions. But you can't do anything about it. So I believe that the procedures here for reexamination in three years are fully and completely sustained. I'm in the same voice as those guys of mine, okay? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson and what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, I think Icelandic agriculture has tremendous potential, especially in what we call traditional agriculture, and also in the farms sometimes known as industrial farming because we use e.g. not hormones, only to a very small extent, we use antibiotics. There is also another factor, such as the one mentioned above. For the Commission that Iceland has chickens is screened for hundreds of different kinds of salmonella. It's just slaughtered from whole houses, i.e. not first slaughtered part, the house opened and slaughtered part, and then slaughtered part. It's slaughtered from a whole house. This ensures that there is a minimum risk of disease. If you develop Salmonella infestation, which is recommended in both a living bird and after you have slaughtered it, you will have discarded the whole fraction. In neighboring lands, it is simply frozen and sold. Besides the fact that we've been free, I think for most of the years, Campylobacter, a endemic disease in the countries around us. It is this unique position that we should place emphasis on and protect. We need to do more than that it is possible to trace the product, that is definitely true. But what are we competing for? Yes, we are, for example. To compete with Finnish pigs who go to Poland and are slaughtered in Germany and return to Finland for a Finnish passport. How are we supposed to trace this? In contrast, we can do this here at home. Therefore, we need to open up more, and in this contract it is opened up and encouraged to produce organics, which, fortunately, are growing in many parts of the country. Of course, we're going to award people who are engaged in such basic operations, who are prized by people like The Halla Valley, who have their fancy whales, of course, we're supposed to be supporting these people. And, of course, we should be supportive of people in different areas. There are four towns now going out of Aarnes scaffold, likely resulting in the fall of the victim. It is heavier than tears to drive through the crash and to see the land that will no longer be placed in the winter. We must strive, as long as it is the order of the nation and the Generalis that the whole country is built, to support harsh areas, and to ensure that farming is completed there. I say again, farm-based productions are especially to ensure good prices for consumers. So we compete for cheap products abroad because they are sponsors, they enjoy manufacturing. We cannot have one nation, except for New Zealand and Australia, greatly diminishing the strength we have used here because this production is being introduced worldwide. I can now mention at the end, because they say we're some kind of pre-packed here, that the U.S. government is building rice crops in Arkansas. In 1998 or 1999, when Bill Clinton put on a special protection charge of a lamb from New Zealand and Australia to support American sheep farming, which is as important as dog maintenance in urban areas and has as much success as it can be. But they chose to support this industry, and we're naturally supposed to. We are to contribute to the fulfillment of this agreement because it is moving in my opinion that agriculture and consumers will reach one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u170	A respectable president. There's some interesting things to do in a talk. A senator I'd like to make comments to. However, I would like to begin with the well-known revision expected in the next term. Hv. A senator seems to be completely mistaken for the value of domestic contracts. The Kingdom did not have a free choice to cut farm deals in 2009. It was then replaced by unprecedented economic failures and massively cut down in all government transfer systems. However, in the setting of a contract there, only farmers could be negotiated with the change, which included a fall in the beginning and then the extension of the contract for two additional years. In other words, the state was bound by the framework of the market agreement. It's just wrong and there's a big misunderstanding. A senator if he believes that the State has a free choice to ignore a temporary covenant made for a certain time. That's why I must say, "I can't. " A senator here promised that following the consultation that is now due, there will be a review that will change the content of the agreements and the state will not have to pay its negotiaters out of the contract if the government wishes to change it? Can he promise that? Can he promise that the State has a free choice, a new administrative body? In most cases, the blessings indicate that new administrative issues will be better assigned in the next term than those in terms of liberal and free trade interested persons, and there is no land cleaning to do so. Then I must ask: Will it be possible for the greater part, that council, to make their own decisions, or will men be stuck with the fact that in the final half of their political career, they have the hands of two councils for ten years?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u171	V.E.G. President. This was well measured by a representative of an endangered party. But can I promise? At any rate, I can guarantee that the expert we were able to assist us in a job - care committee suggested that the revisions held as we set them up. I don't disagree with a university person who's got it for a job and has specialized in it. We generals rely on experts, we do so in every case we obtain a solution. [[Up front.]] After that visit, at any rate it was a guarantee enough for the person mentioned here that certain aspects of this agreement could be renegotiated. It's, for example. You have mentioned the degradation of so - called manufacturing spiders in milk, which were originally with a little distance into the contract. I think there's an inspection in three years. But I repeat, I believe that the opinion we received from this scholar is perfectly sufficient to believe that it is possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u172	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer, and I think it's very important. I think it's very important that if this is accepted as much as most part suggests, if it is confirmed in the legal evidence that it was the will of the lawgiver, the greater part, that a new contract could be made in three years. There's another thing you should know. A senator mentioned I would end up as he spoke of being ready to watch an outing from competitive law. That's why I want to ask you why. Councilman: Is he ready to support our proposal in the United States to put down an exception from competitive law to 71. gr. Bumblems? If not, is he willing to vote for such a sun - giving proposal so as not to have time to respond to it, but we would set a certain end to this unhealthy service? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u173	V.E.G. President. I don't think the Conspiracy's proposal in itself works far enough because it is limited to one professional means. I told you before, I don't like to lift competitive hearts off a company with 98% market share but leave a business with 60%. I also said that at this point in my Congress it would probably not work for me to counter the competitive change I had otherwise wanted to make, but I will do it next round. [[Up front.]] Or as they say in a famous movie: I will return.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u174	V.E.G. President. In the beginning, I want to thank you for what I said. A senator for coming in for a speech chair and discussing contracts. If I recall correctly, it is the second candidate who has been in this discussion, which has been highly good, objective, and opinionated in many ways. [[Up front.]] What's been discussed in the discussion, I think, is that almost all members of the Parliament want the way of the Icelandic agricultural industry most, they think it may need to be strengthened, but there may be some difference of opinion on how to share it. Me and what. A senator, along with some difficulty, will sit together on a professional committee. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann the son of Pálsson, who has also spoken here for the forwarding party. The majority have concluded that there will be many more, the ASI, BSRB, consumers, and others. I strongly agree with this proposal. I thought I'd make this suggestion myself, but it didn't have to, because the proposal has come up and it's good. I discussed my committee's unfortunate position in front of a lot of things set before the General Assembly. We have received many practical suggestions on the job management committee, which we have not been able to apply because we cannot make any changes. Then there is my question to the senator, who appears in a committee party, and when I gave it to her, I explained in my speech, "What's up? " A senator of the idea that the Council of Parliament submits to the General Assembly decision-making objective of the state's contract to make stock agreements, to discuss it in two discussions, to make any adjustments, or to make no changes, etc., and when it is approved at the General Parliament, this agreement on government policy, the contract form with the Basis to discuss matters, and reach its conclusions? It's part of my opinion to make more peace with Icelandic agriculture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u175	V.E.G. President. I find this suggestion interesting. I've been very interested in making more peace with Icelandic agriculture. As many people know, I speak extensively here in these sales for guards monitoring, prices, etc. and I feel that as many people come along, when contracts like these are made and are for discussion and for building up. That's why I agree with that. A senator that I naturally propose that the next revision will begin immediately. I think it's very important. We have excellent experience with large multiorganized committees that even work and then come to a conclusion, usually in common, but sometimes with special opinions. I think it's very important. I have criticized the farmers for feeling that I do not try to explain to consumers, especially here in this area, what their advantage is from a contract like this. It just comes to the point of doing so. It's not our job to do that, is it? Farmers have to do their own thing. For example, it is fascinating to observe the exchange of valuables, such as lamb between farmers, deforestation, commerce, and the State. It has been shown that farmers get far less of their share in this country than farmers like that. correspondent in Britain I think it's right for consumers to know, and this, of course, should be a self-employment of information. Of course, I'm celebrating an extra conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u176	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for clear answers to the ideas presented in the text of the committee opinion rather than as a suggestion. Maybe I'll make it a suggestion for the 3rd. Hv. Senator, yes, he's absolutely right. He's been known here for dealing with guards and setting up a discussion about this. I agree with that. It'll even come. ... inmynamedside. That was one of the reasons why I posed the many questions to the Ministry that we have discussed in the Committee and went through, even though I felt that I did not get the money in customs that come in with every product. In the modern U.S. computer system, there is no problem. It was just the thought of getting the cost to the country, the customs that the state receives, and the ultimate price to consumers to compare it with, on the other hand, from imported goods and domestic products. [[The president calls.]] That was the meaning of it. That's why I'm asking. A senator in my final stand, is not a why. A senator agreed with me that it is very important to draw out these figures, these amounts, and to get the total pay of state funds from the stocked tolls due to imported agricultural products? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u177	V.E.G. President. Yes, I think it's very important. I also think it's very important - now we're going to discuss the customs deal, let's do it tomorrow, and I expect to participate in that discussion. We've done what we've been doing. A senator knows mutual agreements with the European Union on export and import here on various products. Yes, I think it's very important that we know about the source prices, even to know what, for example. The merchants are taking their share, and whether it is safe for them to be standing up and to return to the consumer's interests that they think are of as good as import. Now I'm going to go over it better tomorrow, how it all comes down to business, because I don't have time to do it right now. But I believe it is very important that we know as accurately as we can about the formation of prices on these lips.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u178	Madam President. I just want to stop for a second. A senator and, in fact, others have discussed, i.e. Review regulations and the duration of the contract. I think it is now right to bear in mind that this particular negotiation is not entirely to be balanced with other general agreements made by the state and that it is the exclusive nature of that kind of person. This is somewhat unusual because it is a legal agreement. Special requirements require that the government seek such agreements with farmers for the basis of agricultural production. So these are laws, or legal agreements, in judicial terms, as it were. Of course, they submit to a second practice, of course, no other authority can be committed to the State. Thewelvement is here, and I don't know any better - now I have to admit that I have not looked up the current agreements, but at least for the last two contracts I came to do, a second time both as a agricultural and marine advisory, and now I have to sign only once, and the second time, as a professional secretary of state, and a financial minister, were in and are now always to be general guardians for the approval of the Alcelium's approval of finance. They are really the nature of the matter, i.e. There's always that one because there's power and there's no way to deliver the future. After saying it, it's perfectly clear that it's still a legal entity between these parties. It is based on special law and it creates a good religion between parties. What I would have wanted to hear. A senator is a little more specific when it comes to the balance between 20 years of age and a clear review principle in three years. Perhaps it is what people should use more of their sight, identifying where the balance really exists between these factors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u179	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for the question. It is very likely that it might be quite effective to have a special accounting with this contract, which makes it very clear that the parties agree that this review will be conducted after this time and in about one year. ... howit shouldbe won. It may be possible to give up between the 2nd and 3rd. to observe this factor. In many ways, I felt that it would be well advised to do so in order to take all sides and to avoid potential disagreements with others or in the different governments in three years. On the other hand, I have said it myself, and I last said it in my speech earlier that, of course, this deal is until ten years ago. It's made with farmers until ten years of age, and I don't need to tell the country man that I was a little touchy myself if I had been a cow and had now been incarcerated because their products would not have been finished until the three years or just in the blue end of this period. When we discuss production like this, which has such a long manufacturing process, this article must have confirmed and what is called in Danish ◯stabiliset, excuse me, Madam President, so that men can make their own plans and do their work the best they want to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u180	Madam President. Yes, it is true that this is a long chain of manufacturing. I also came into it in my speech today that, of course, the realization of the situation is very important as far as possible. I agree with that, and actually I had meetings at a job station where I ran into the gap as an assistant where it worked as a bookmaker. It is clear that if the parties agreed on a specific additional book that would follow the contract or hang on to the contract, it would be in good faith and a common understanding of what is in these revisions. That's how I read it. Yeah, the contract ramification is ten years old, but there's an explanation here and a strong reexamination principle in the contract. They have value in terms of the lack of legitimate expectations of something else. It is known that the arrangement can be revised in three years. That is, expectations began with the ability to assume that these ten years will remain unchanged as such. As a result, in my opinion it does not develop to such legitimate expectations that it can cause trouble for the state. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this point needs to be as clear as possible. [[The president calls.]] That is why it would be very important to receive the study and, on the other hand, as much and as an explanation of a legal explanation in a committee party, even a leading party in the 3rd C.E. Um... and possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-30-142.u181	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. A senator that it must be very clear to both parties that both review periods are effective. I reiterate what I said earlier that governments, however planned for them in three years and seven years, will be able to influence the development of this contract, but at the same time that farmers are absolutely certain that the stability of that production is not threatened. I reiterate what I said earlier that I believe to be successful in making a special account, and I will no doubt seek to get it done.
