ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u1	Mr. President. I would like to point out that in this matter, three smaller objects appear. Of these, two minor opinions were distributed in the last ten minutes before a meeting. So I doubt that no one has ever had a chance to read through or study the contents of their minor aluminium. I would feel more convenient if more time had taken to study these matters before giving a vote on abnormalities because of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u2	A respectable president. We're going to vote for a bill on the CREEP Council. We are here changing the way the Governing Body operates, and we call attention to decisions made there. The objective is twofold; one is to increase the number of people who accept pay according to standard contracts. Now you've got 580 people under the board. It will be about 150 now after these changes if they are achieved, because the other goal is that those who are unable to negotiate pay normally because of the nature of the job have more access to their own matters when making decisions about pay and their salary than at present. So the objective is twofold. Of course, it is also goal that the jumps are not that large when the advice of fools makes decisions, affecting the work of our senators. [[The president calls.]] As we have seen in recent months, our work has become less confident. [[The president calls.]] We need to be careful that this will not continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u3	Mr. President. I think, in principle, there are the changes in the work of a dresser board here. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir The Björt majority of Ólafsdóttir have decreased. Furthermore, there is increasing demand that advice be made at the discretion of the decision-making board to take into account general employment development and to provide more comprehensive advice on how decisions and decisions are published, how reason support for decision is presented, and what information to follow that support. So I believe there are changes here to the improvement of a board of dressers that has been debated in chapters. But I also think it is good to believe that the changes in the council were relatively at hand. In view of the fact that the matter is taken back, what will be done? The Economic and Business Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. I hope we can make further peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u4	Mr. President. We in the left green take our minds to the view that the Council's order has to be based on the width of the background council and so we need to reflect the fleas under the council, but we don't think the goals are achieved by the changes proposed here, that the suggestions in joints a and b are too narrow, and we will therefore not support them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u5	Mr. President. I vote against this proposal remaining unchanged, i.e. to 2 g. Stay calm, as it does not assume that there will be any demand for those who recommend a dresser's adviser. We Pirats and I will likely suggest another adjustment of the materials that will cover more views that a broader stream of managers can be reached. Privately, we're going to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u6	A respectable president. I recommend more of that committee party. The Economic and Business Committee for No. 6, which is a bill to legalize the law on the Pension Fund of Ministers of the State, with subsequent changes. In view of circumstances, the deadline was brief. But I'd like to mention and rebuke like a dog. Since the bill was submitted earlier in the fall, members of the council know that the bill was submitted in the fall, so the bill under consideration is presented a second time by some adjustment. A brief report did not prevent a number of reports from being carried over by the committee, detailed comments, and the well - being of the committee, and the committee, however, was allowed to receive several guests. The objective and purpose of the bill is clearly described in a paper, but one of the main objectives is to coordinate the pension rights of public employees and employees on the market. There was some reconciliation with visitors on this objective in itself, as well as the part of the bill, which aims to adopt the age - related processing of pension rights instead of the so - called cohesion rights that public workers have enjoyed to the end of their work. It is also true that many guests stressed that the bill would be approved before a New Year's Eve. As I mentioned at the outset, the bill is submitted a second time, like a second time. Congress members know, in connection with the agreement between the government and the university alliance, the BSRB and the National Teacher Union of Iceland from September 19th. As a result, this agreement was made at meetings of the committee with visitors. The concern was, on the other hand, that the elimination of the indirect responsibility of state and community on the pension rights of a partner, without which there could be a loss of rights, could occur if the financial resources of the State's Pension Fund and the bridges of Pension were developed to a worse degree. It was found in the case of several sources that it was not safe for pension and reserve funds to be provided by the bill to improve the existing financial growth and the recording of age-related rights process. Some commentators felt that the bill was out of harmony with an earlier agreement. This does not agree with the majority of the Committee and points to this in the agreed agreement, but in part 5 of it it it is specified that the responsibilities of the remuneration of the variable payer's budget of the head of staff and the bridge should be taken off if the future commitments of the remuneration are fully guaranteed. The pension fund is just intended to cover the future debt of remuneration for the expected changes, but if not enough, it is expected that the funds from reserves or other measures will be made. The committee also noted that although the agreement may have demanded to eliminate the indirect state responsibility for public employees'pensions, and they were in themselves not opposed to the future, authors had a different view of who should be directly subject to that change. The bill thus assumes that those who have reached 60 years of age when new approved funds are accepted will not be affected if they do. They also, if they do, will not enjoy greater rights if they do. The reviews provided a request that this reference date be moved much lower. The committee discussed this and the majority of the committee felt that it was not right to make such comments in view of the objective of the bill, which is just about a change of arrangement for the future. In this regard, the Age Criteria of the bill were put in the bill we discuss here in order to address the views of a coalition of public employees to the bill submitted in the fall. Therefore, if the staff's pension rights in a public labour market are balanced, the responsibility of the committee is unavoidable. Then it would be appropriate to consider a statement made by the Committee from the so-called B and C centres, which are the institutions of the state that have more of their income on the market or are credit institutions. Some of these came before the committee and described how their reimbursement to the state funds of the staff's annual pensions that the state fund is going to do to the financial situation of these parties. The majority of the committee felt that it was not right to agree with the viewpoints that are, in fact, the view that the State will eliminate the pay of these parties. It is proper to conclude that the increase in pay is considered to be the pay of these institutions anyway. Notes were made for the change in a-line 3.mg. c-arms 7. The bill from the time it was submitted in the fall. The first bill said that the insurance status of the pension fund according to annual estimates was negative by 10% or more at the end of the next year or remained negative by at least 5% continuously for more than five years, a complete or partial reserve of care should be placed, both until 5% of criteria were met, the holding of a pension fund, and the funds used to meet its commitments. These criteria were taken into account by the 39th paragraph. the law on the insurance policy of pensions. On the other hand, in the available bill, the insurance status of the pension fund was negative by 10% or more for five years or remained negative by at least 5% consecutive for 10 years. The committee noted that the purpose of the change was to reduce the likelihood that funds would be removed from a deposit fund into a pension fund because of temporary fluctuations in the insurance status of a pension fund, although these contributions were irreversible and did not go back even if the fluctuations did. The majority of the committee agree with this argument and therefore do not suggest a change in this arrangement. Then it is appropriate to mention at the end that the Bridge Penitentiary Fund and the Union of Iceland pointed out that loyalty might improve for the proposed changes in the composition of possessions at the Bridge of Pension, pay fees, and changes in the approved funds. The majority agree with these comments and, as a result, contributes to a change in parsity. The bill considering this. The motion is presented in the same document as the opinion of the committee on deck. 15th A respectable president. Otherwise, I'm going to refer to the Committee's opinion of a greater part of the panel. 15, which I haven't been reading in particular here. Under the opinion of a majority of the committees, they write as well as the above. paritaprevir Benedikt the son of Jóhannesson, president of the committee, Björt the daughter of Ólafsdóttir, Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Lára the daughter of Arnardóttir, and Vilmur the Vilhjálmur of Bjarnason. I suggest the case goes down to the 3rd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u7	Mr. President. For the council, there is a bill about the substantial changes in the pension system of public employees. Its primary objective is to coordinate pension in a public and public labour market. It's a goal I think most members of the Congress Hall can agree with. To this end, most of us have made considerable efforts to settle the case here in the matter in the matter of Congress, but it is my opinion, because for the past phase of the matter was measured, that it had been a good deal, as I then suggested, to set up some form of intermediate committee that could have continued to work on the case, because the situation now is that there is still no agreement to be accepted as the basis for this bill. The bill suggests that the age - related pension rights of public employees will be replaced by the level of work and the rise in pensional age. As we have seen in the discussion, the situation has been very long, but since the signing of the so - called 2009 Convention, there has been pauses at this objective. The arrangement I referred to here, between BHM and the League of Colleges, BSRB, the Union of State and Towns, and the National Teacher Union of Iceland on the other hand, and finance and economic ministers on behalf of state funds and the European Union on the change in the Department of Pension, was signed in September 2016. When the bill was presented the first, it was clear that the parties did not agree on the interpretation of the agreement, nor is it now at the end of this year, as the bill shows that conversation between parties has taken place on the possibility of solution and thus a common understanding of the agreement, but there has been no conclusion. The reason for pressure to go this way is primarily economic and physical that the state's good standing as a result of a stable budget that entered the state's budget and the places that have formed to deposit money in order to make these changes. The person here admits that they are certainly weighed heavily on the subject. However, there is considerable relevance to the bill already available. Now I'll go over it, and it's stated in the committee party that I put out as a 1st thing. According to a letter on the State Pension Fund, set up in March 2011, it was his role. reviewing the funds' status of A and B and offering proposals for future solutions to their problems, but already there's a considerable need, and has long made up the fund for future commitments. In a letter written by the General Public Workers Association, dated June 19, 2012, they said that they shared in the whole - souled discussion of the labour market's labour market, while reminding them in the letter that there is a definite basis for this. They provided conditions that would not be allowed to interfere with the acquired rights of public employees and that changes would be replaced by undiminished rights of funds. At the same time, it was asked that work be started on a standard basis or found a procedure to balance the pay of public employees in the general labour market. A greater salary in a public labour market would have been justified by better pension rights, so it would be clear that there would be an equal pay between the general and the public labour markets as soon as the pension rights were equaled. In fact, during the political treatment of the matter, the comments on these grounds have gained weight, i.e. On the one hand, unlike the understanding of the value of pension rights, or whether they are affected or not, by the changes presented here on the system and on the other hand, in terms of the equation between the public and the general market. Thus, according to BSBA's review from October that the Community understanding was that the so - called pension fund would ensure that acquired rights would not be impaired and future rights would remain unchanged. However, government understanding is that the pension fund is intended only to offset the impact of the transfer into age - related right work and the rise in pensional age. Acquiring rights cannot be guaranteed if, in order to produce future yields, there is no longer a loss of national responsibility for the pension of government employees, outside of funds over 60 years of age, the change made on this bill made by a previous bill and microenergy and pensioner. Iceland's Teaching Association has made similar comments and suggests another way, that the Department of Pension Funds of the State and the Bridges of Pension will be shut down to new funds. The funds in the agreement will be paid into the fund, thus preventing further payoffs from paying the fund. A new department will then be opened by a new arrangement. The bill's report shows that this route did not seem to be acceptable from a local and rural perspective, as it would have meant that public employees lived with three different rights systems. Moreover, 1st was observed. The bottom line. Minister that he did not consider this to be a simple step towards the equation of pensions because that would mean that this equation would take several decades, in view of the continuation of the A Company, if closed for new partners. It must then be said, in view of the magnitude of the difference between government understanding and the overall agreement in the public labour market that in view of the length of the situation and the basis for the conversation to be somewhat clear at baseline, it must be considered highly unfortunate that the role of the pension fund is not shared and that people disagree on whether a new system guarantees acquired rights in a similar way as to the current system, as well as whether the pension rights are considered as valuable before and after. The reviews of a number of parties on the bill show that one of the key criteria of the agreement is to balance pay between the public and the general labour market, while a better pension rights of public employees than others have been used to justify less pay in the public. These figures do not exist as the equation of pay will be postponed into the future. In the agreement, it is expected that the work will be done to balance the difference between the public and the general market to the extent that it is systematic or non-employable. The report on the bill shows that methodology will be developed to identify the pay range and determine objective criteria for when to correct both the individual groups and the remuneration schedule based on collective agreements for up to ten years. It is of great concern that the discussion shows that people are not content with the amount of pay and how to evaluate it. It involves what is considered comparable jobs, how to take other variables such as education or sex, as well as that there are considerable differences between countries and rural communities, both of which are classified as the official. In view of the premise of the year 2012, i.e. that the objective of the agreement would include equal amounts of pay, it would have been preferable to evaluate the level of pay already so that people would agree on any amount of pay that would give them the most valuable means of reaching the amount of pay between the general and the public market. It has not yet been determined how exactly to perform that assessment, i.e. evaluate the level of pay between different markets, how to take different variables. So I can understand the concern of the reporters who feel that there is really some uncertainty about the future, whether it is possible to level the pay in six to ten years as stated in the agreement, in view of the lack of the means we have to perform it, and not to understand that there are any differences in pay. Other points were found in the bill reviews. Some carers believe that the bill violates the Constitution's property rights, where there is a certain risk that acquired rights will be lost if future yields are due or some other insurance grounds fail. This was discussed in the Committee, and we certainly can say that we have a precedent for changing the pension rights or pension rights. Legal cases have taken place and, of course, show that the lawgiver has the authority to reverse such rights. However, it may have to do with another discussion that is about how much we consider the whole range of pensions to be the legal issue and to what extent we believe it is the matter of collective agreements. In many ways, it would have been desirable to have more time on the committee to discuss this point, since only the data provided by members of the committee can be made clear and followed. and the different judgments that have been taken on these matters that it would have been desirable to have a better understanding of them. It was noted that certain partners in the BSRB were not to be met with the demands of a less pensional age, which includes those who work physically hard and point to an increase in pensional age as a reverse trend. I consider it important as a 1st bit to analyze the need, and I am here with a provisional arrangement which suggests that a minister should adopt the law of these bodies, with representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and trade unions in a public and public labour market. The question of my being less familiar with the public market than in the public, for there are, of course, various classes that do physical work, and that group of workers, in general, distinguishes the need to reduce the pension age for certain classes. The largest part of the Committee shows that it is normal to negotiate in collective agreements. This may lead to a conclusion. However, there is a need for some evaluation of the rightness of this requirement and the complete evaluation. So I hope the adjustment will be accepted. In view of the fact that in the coming years, this issue will be very important, it will have to be evaluated, so I don't think it would be worse to start with that sooner than later. Well, then I'll put it up here in the Committee on 6th. b-joints 7. The bill shows that the right of funds for further pension generally falls down their pay fees for more than 12 months. It was noted that the law made it difficult for funds to temporarily leave government jobs, and they would lose their right to pension when they returned to work. In this way, the law stated against the objective of the bill to help people move between a public and a general labour market. Under these concerns, I take into consideration that this bill's stated aim is to make it easier for me to transfer. Finally, it should be noted that on the part of the National Association of Iceland, there are some 12,000 members who worked for state and rural groups or institutions funded by these bodies. The arrangements under the bill would not include that group. I agree with ASI that it is necessary to ensure comparable rights for this group, although, of course, we need to realize that the bill is about the head of public employees, not employees in other trade unions. However, it is important that this group do not forget. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I agree with the primary objective of equalizing Iceland's pension rights and that economics is the right time to engage in such an operation. According to this, it is unfortunate that the bill is based on an agreement that is equally widely interpreted by people. In that light, it is also bad that the Council is given so short a time to take sides in basic changes in public life systems. Clearly, disagreements about interpretations are fundamental in changes that depend on how to ensure a permanent pension rate and whether it can be considered as valuable before and after a change. Furthermore, there is clear doubt that there will be an agreement's goal for the exchange between different markets. As these are key factors, although we agree with our objective and believe that the same biofuel value for people regardless of employers and as if people's terms are comparable, the left movement of the green supply will not stand to agree with the bill, but we still suggest the adjustment in my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u8	V.E.G. President. I hear what you're saying. A senator may suggest that the bill is out of harmony with the workforce. I also heard this from individual member societies. When you ask what it is in the bill that is not in accordance with the agreement, you can understand that the requirement has always been that the equivalent of pension rights should not be valid for the next 20 years, that everyone in the system, in the A League now, should be allowed to complete it completely to the end. Of course, that was not the way the meeting was conducted. It was about the equal pension rights now. That's why I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: What exactly is it in the agreement that humans are always referring to as the bill is not in harmony with? Another thing to do. A senator came in to balance the salary before it's approved. The opportunity to level the pension rights is now. It's not after six or ten years. What do we mean, "I'm equal to what I'm paying "? In some ways, the State is simply the sole employer of many classes, almost one of others. There's a big disagreement as to whether there's a problem with the brain when it's taken over. I don't think it's entirely unreasonable to be going to that job now and being in it and waiting on this important matter, which I don't think can wait any longer. If this is not done now, it will not be done in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. When he asked me if the bill wasn't in accordance with the agreement, he answered: "There's not even one agreement about whether there's a big difference in pay. In fact, the arrangement for meeting was part of the process of balanceing pay between public and public markets. But it's quite clear that it is interpreted differently by people, such as the whale. A senator did earlier. I didn't say that this case should be held off until the pay was level. I said it would have been better, considering that these grounds were available for 2012, but then it's been four years, that men had at least Acquired in methodology to assess the level of remuneration. A senator mentioned, and I also mentioned, that it was not a simple matter to consider. I think if the people were at least has come to the place now that they agree on the value of the pay and how to appreciate it, we would be almost at peace with the agreement. Hv. paritaprevir Hermaphs, Níelsson's son, also said that I held that the bill was out of harmony with the agreement. What was repeated in my case, in case. A senator would now have listened carefully, saying that people do not agree on the interpretation of the agreement. Hv. A senator cannot deny, he has been in the same session as I have with all the partners who signed the agreement, that there are clearly different interpretations, and especially those who lie to whether a pension right can be considered as valuable before and after a change. Naturally, members of this organization ask, in view of the fact that it is meted out the state responsibility of public employees' pensions, whether the rights to their heads are considered equally valuable, whether it is the goal of the agreement to be met by this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u10	V.E.G. President. Of course, the agencies listed here are aware that there could be better pension rights and possibly worse if at worst. It's not a question of understanding an agreement, it's already known. I've never had a proper explanation of how this could be a violation of the agreement, or what a fraction was over a head, men would interpret everything and the south. But if it is to achieve the goal of equalizing the pension, it will not be done in any other way. This is followed by a discussion because it is part of the agreement, to settle the terms where they are uneven. I realize that there are conflicting opinions about how to equal them, what is considered equal in them. It's not simple. Is it equal to all with comparable lengths of study? Or can you live with your own? There are different opinions about that. It will not be easy to resolve. But I was very disappointed that VG is not going to support the situation and that the more part of this is involved because this is going very far in approaching the viewpoint of public employees by aiming at the 60 years that were not in the bill in the fall. But now the requirement seems to be this, and the agreement is to be interpreted so that it should be moved preferably for 40 years, i.e. all the life since the start of the fund. Of course, there is no equation. Then we can totally skip it. I want to know what it is. A senator doesn't agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u11	Mr. President. I'm sorry to cause you what you're doing. A senator is disappointed, but I know that I do it very regularly, so I don't take it too personally. The fundamental question that I raise in my committee is that this is where the basic system changes the civil life rates. It is first proposed in a hurry just before the end of the council at the end of the last council and did not complete them, including the end of the council. because we object to a lack of time. The next step is that it is quickly submitted and under the premise that, despite the time gap between what it was submitted and that changes have been made for improvement, there are improvements, i.e. to lower this age to the age of 60, but the agreement has not yet been established. Hv. A senator well knows that the mutual understanding has not been reached. I don't know what else to do but what to do. A senator must be amazed that people who have sat at this table for years, from 2011 on breaks, have not come to a place of common understanding. I think it's bad, considering that this is a fundamental system change that we should seek to achieve the most agreement. It's been settled for the purpose, i.e. The equation of pension rights, and it's important to achieve such an equation. As I repeatedly came, economic evidence is to attack this change now. Then I am amazed that the years that have passed since 2011 have not been better than to achieve a common understanding. Hv. A senator knows as well as I do; we've received many of its e-mails in the past few weeks and months, that there's a big difference with the change among members of the overall organization. It's not good to make such a system change in nonsense.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u12	Mr. President. It is true that a carrier of the bill said that his aim is to ensure that the country will have one comparable pension system for everyone. With the change, an important milestone will be reached where the market has long been equalizing pension rights and harmonizing pensions between the public and the public labour market. It's important because of a variety of factors. This ensures that in the future all employees - whether they choose to work in the public or the general labour market - will have the same rights. This facilitates labour mobility, which becomes more and more important and valuable in modern society. This also meets the angle of the pension system of public workers today and ensures the future of its sustainability. Finally, it is important that the remuneration is clear and that comparison between classes and employers is easy. In a small community that doesn't want to be equal, this step is very important, I believe. Inconsistencies in the labour system and the public system, however, there has long been a sharp front for employees in the labour market. So there is much work to do in correcting these rights. Then there is age - related rights management in public funds that the bill holds out to be fair for younger generations, where the current arrangement involves the transfer of rights from younger sources to older ones. Of course, it is also true that public employees are not self-sustained, as I mentioned before by the rest of the arrangements and the need to respond. The climate that the state's budget has now been unique in 2016, and most uncertain of the time that the state could meet its commitments to the head of the state's Pension Fund and the Bridges would make a decision to use their space on other projects. There is also little chance that there will be continued work on a new labour market if pension rights are not eliminated. So it is a fundamental precept for having people back at that table. Pension funds are an integral part of these contracts. If the bill is accepted, it is clear that the increase in pay of public employees who do not enjoy competitive dressers compared to the general labour market will have to be a priority in public affairs. Accepting it must be top priority. It is not surprising, in fact, that the concern of public workers is balanced on this point. An overall increase in pay is part of the agreement on changing the order of the pensions on which the bill is based and on which it must stand. The pay of individual groups between public and public employment markets is to be balanced, especially in the health sector and in the teachers. Mr. President. I'd like to criticize how a private government has handled the case. Just before a bill of the same material was submitted in the fall, it was found that the Ministry of Economics did not share the understanding of the case with the people involved. During the past year, there was no attempt to resolve the differences sufficiently. And as mentioned earlier, we now have a unique opportunity to establish a more efficient workforce. A key element of intertwinment rights has been a common model of work, so these methods must be criticized. I think it is highly unlikely, as it is now, that this is more likely to create peace in a labour market than would have been, if one had done better. I can say things and, in fact, a lot of things in the opinion of the greater part, but I still think it's necessary to make two more changes so that the bill is acceptable to me. The first has to keep the rights, in section 7. (Renewable factor IX) There is reason to ensure that other financial funds are saved beyond those who have paid to the fund during the past 12 months. Then I am especially looking to the individuals who have paid for the fund, even for a very long time, but who decided to move to the general labour market, even temporary. They won't get their pensions if they move back to the public system. This is, in my opinion, justice, i.e. that they are equal to those working within the public system today. Of course, when it comes to acquired pensions in the future, they have their rights right there. So the change is that this group can move again to the public market and enjoy a considerable contribution. A bill shows the movement between the public and the general labour markets as one of the objectives of the bill. Of course, this compartment would further contribute to that mobility. I don't think it would have a major impact on the bill, since a similar number of people are expected to move from public markets to public markets and then finish their career with those who come in there. The second adjustment proposal I propose is about a 3.mg. c-arms 7. (New Directive for temporary X) He'll be just as he was on the bill that was submitted in the fall, which is in accordance with the law on the insurance of pensions and pension funds, No. 129/1997. It required that the insurance status of a pension fund be negative to 10% or more per annual assessment will be paid from a pension fund to meet the negative situation. It is true to bear in mind that in an Annex to the BHM, BSRB, and KI Convention and the State Fund and the Union Society, this would be the case. The bill now presented changes in the article without consulting these people and is expected to be a five - year period instead of a year. I believe it is important that the agreement presented in the Annex is respected, especially to avoid losing trust between parties that may not seem to be much at the moment. Finally, the situation described in my amendment can be said to be negative to an insurance situation of about 10% per annual assessment, simply as a full reason to take action, would have resulted in dramatic changes in the fund. Mr. President. I think it's important that the bill ensures that all the state responsibilities that are already in the pension and pension with those 60 years of age and older who could start taking a pension. It would have called for a particular problem, however, to reach down in the ratings. It would have taken longer to achieve equality in the whole pension system. Similarly, public employees' arguments for pay balance would have been weaker. So I believe it is, as was shown in the case of a man. An aviator, a grammatical argument to draw the line at 60 years of age. Of course, I understand the concern of those who wrote them in their comments about the bill. But I am convinced that in normal years, and even with considerable fluctuations and events, this new system of pensions, with a reserve of care, and with contracts with countries for times hard to deal with, will be able to secure funds as valuable rights as before. However, if you were here, what a devastating blow that brought everything on its side, there could be disasters and wars or worse things, would really be just two things in the situation compared to the present system. On the one hand, if a government fund simply cannot fulfill its commitments, the question arises: What is the value of Kingdom responsibility that cannot be fulfilled? Or the only alternative that is not better, and it is that the state's holding up its commitments and costs, while the cost in such horrible circumstances lay on the common people, who, of course, had suffered great losses at such times. Then in our small community of injustice, I'm not sure that we could face it. Mr. President. Finally, I am convinced that by equalizing the pension rights of the entire country, we can take a good, important step toward a general agreement with the workforce. If we continue to keep our cards properly, we can work toward more stability and balance in the community. But to do so, I believe that there are still significant changes to the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u13	Mr. President. I appreciate your tour with a speaker. In fact, I agree almost entirely with what he says on the committee opinion and in his speech. But I would like to ask, as he points out that the scope of the state's budget is unique, which is certainly true, and I don't know when the state could meet its commitments to the head of the state's staff and to the bridge if it was decided to use the space on other projects: what would be the case. A senator is more likely to use this money to pay off the State debt and use the wax paid by that subsidies to try to pay on it gradually over a longer period? My simple evaluation is that it could take between ten and thirteen years, depending on how things develop.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u14	Mr. President. That's a pretty interesting idea. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. I've heard it, but don't ask me exactly if it's possible to be updated. However, it should be noted that it was in reality against the agreement made between these parties that require a single payment into the fund. I suppose you'd have to pick up the phone and listen to what the sound was on the other side. If that's a good way to do this, I'm sure you'll be looking at it. But as I'm saying, she's actually turning the deal around.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's on Logi for that answer. Then I ask, " Is there not a reason to explore this possibility in view of the fact that it could provide a basis for us to take a closer look at this matter over a longer period of time and would not be creating some kind of discomfort with a time frame that seems to be the most appropriate reason for us to be at home? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u16	Mr. President. I've always been a spokesman for taking the time they have and looking at all the possibilities and creative ideas that arise. It's just that we amongst ourselves may not necessarily come up with clever things but, above all, obvious things, but when interesting ideas come to mind, they are likely to be examined. Of course, we have a few days. We have four working days between Christmas and New Year, so that's why I could look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to step back to a b-aide change of plans. Senator. I wonder what. A senator has carefully examined whether this adjustment proposal, which, in fact, contains expressions taken from the September 19th agreement between the labour market partners, but only partially, as it is here serving the interests of carers better than the project proposed by the bill. My understanding of the bill is that with a team of 3rd. c-arms 7. has been intended to be met by a body member in the event that the funds were emptied and the results were not reached in a discussion of response, the talks laid out in c- team 7. I call attention to the fact that in the adjustment arrangement, the arrangement does not include words that require that the funds of caution remain intact for five years, but that if this worked out, the funds of caution could be lost and the people were bound to look to level 39. The pension struggles that require duty or at least the possibility to impair rights if this is the case. I wonder what. A senator has considered whether the interests of a financial society are actually better placed on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u18	Mr. President. Yeah, I think I'm trying to take care of a bank member because comments are made in the reviews of more than one person. As I mentioned earlier, there may be more involved with the appendix to the agreement as it appears. However, it may well be that I made some mistake there. I need to check it out. But I believe that if the fund experiences so much trauma in one year as it states, there is a full need to take action.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u19	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson's son for his conduct and many things in him that I agree with and many things he talks about that I think will improve. Still, I'd like to ask you why. A senator in his statement regarding the 60-year rule. I could not understand him but that he would agree with what some might have. Congressmen have said in this hall, that if it were not, it would mean that the equation of pensions on the public market would take longer time, this would be a matter of the future, and would not handle the problems we had today. Hv. paritaprevir On the other hand, Logi Einarsson is the full position of large unions on the official market, BHM, Iceland's Teacher Association, BSRB. All these societies and even more believe that this rule is simply not in harmony with the agreement that was signed at the time. Now the committee says "woe. " Senator, with permission from the President: This agreement requires that the TV be based on that agreement. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, whether he believes that BSRB, BHM, and the Iceland Teacher Association believe that this rule conflicts with the agreement in the same organisation and whether he feels that the rule is in full agreement with the agreement that was signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u20	Mr. President. In order to change the last question perhaps first. Yes, I believe that, in fact, the bill is basically a factor in the agreement, because it states that these rights are bought, not stately, but the way they're supposed to pay up from the state to meet this equation of rights. When I mentioned 60 years of life, I felt that it was a critical limit because, after that, you have the right to take a pension, and it is only natural that those who accept the disability and pension are free and have state responsibilities, because I understand that in the Supreme Court court there is a guarantee that there can be a limit to where they can be affected. I think it's a matter of business. What I meant is, as we lower the limit, whether there are 50 years, 40 years, 35 years, 20 years, we simply take longer to change from this system and equalize the pension rights between the public market and the public market. I don't think that would go well with the public market, so the agreement would probably be upset.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u21	A respectable president. However, it must have been the source of all who signed the agreement that acquired rights would not be passed, would it not? As far as the length is concerned, I won't say. As I understand the agreement and have read it through, it's not worry that's wooded. I think we should listen to the deal. They have complained that in every discussion and in the agreement there is talk of a treasuremate, but the bill that appeared in the fall has suddenly become a talk about active citizens. The age has now been set in. I'd like to ask you what. A senator again, whether I understood him properly because of the problem. A senator said in his case... [[The president calls.]] Is it crazy? Counts 'em out. A senator that this organization is wrong when they say that this is not in harmony with the agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u22	The president brings attention to the fact that there are three young men. The members of Parliament responded to a talk. 9th. That's the north side. had to shorten the session in the second and second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u23	Mr. President. I don't know if you're supposed to get it over with. I don't know if you're supposed to get it over with. When an agreement is made, there may be differences between people. That's what we have tools to do. We have attorneys and judges and courts to settle that disagreement. If you ask me, I really believe that the bill is largely or largely completely in accordance with the agreement. That's what the agreement here has to do with a letter c in unit one by permission of the President: The rights of the present funds in the ALS and Bridges will be as valuable to and after the changes in the order of pensions laid down in this agreement. They're putting in a large monopoly in order to actually buy the old arrangement. [[The president calls.]] If we had guaranteed all our rights as if they had been for the next 45 years and as well as paid in, they would have muffled a gift.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u24	Mr. President. I was standing on this pontte a week ago and I said this bill was a bad thing to do. I still agree with it in a certain way, but I also agree that it's an evil necessity to work this case very well and carefully, that we're not doing anything stupid. 3rd smaller things, i.e. I'm on behalf of Porta's council, for all the objectives of the bill. Yet, the approach contained in the bill has not been sufficiently satisfied. In addition, at the end of each committee's work, the rate of speech has been far too high in terms of the size and size of the case. It has been given a very short period of time to give reviews and to complain about them. Also, the driving in the Committee office did not allow room for professional and enlightened work. In addition, it may be noted that the work at the Ministry may not have been done with enough calm, since it seems that it has forgotten to have the pension fund bridge in its original bill. But I am more concerned about other factors, and most of them are its economic effects, and they are very vague. The economic impact of agreeing with the bill is unclear because according to the financial and economic standards of the Ministry has an extension of 130 billion dollars. from state funds into an overcrowded pension fund system, which is about 4% enlargement of that system according to my schedule and compared to the figures I've seen, little economic impact. At the same time, many well - respected economists such as Gylfi Magnússon, Gunnar Tómasson, and Ólafur Margeirsson have claimed that this is a very dangerous procedure. Gunnar and Ólafur point out the following in their letter to members of the 17th of December, by permission of the president: This increase in the perennial amount of money can lead to instability and inflation of property and goods. This rated $108.5 billion dollars of payment, which will be made with the stability of the fallen banks to the state's funds, works directly against the aim of the actual stability of the enterprise itself, which was to contribute to the stability of domestic property and goods markets. It is noted that there is an increase of less than 7% in the amount of money in traffic. It would be wise to assume that such an increase in the amount of money in traffic would not have consequences. On the other hand, the late bank says that this will have little effect and would argue with the fact that there are only about 25 billion dollars. in the real money that has been transferred. The posts come in the form of bonds and other assets that came into existence through these stability contributions. It is not clear what these assets are, and therefore it is very possible to estimate the economic impact of their application in this way. No matter how you look at the matter, it sounds like a considerable expansion of a very large pension system with the related risk factors for the entire pension system. If most of this contribution is funded by property other than money, another problem arises. It is vital that these assets be identified in the way they are selected, what they are, and how much they are worth. It is dangerous to move such an enormous amount of possessions in a single step because it is absolutely impossible to confirm that there is no abnormal transfers. Without any ill will or criminal suggestion, Mr. President, I don't think it's necessary for us to take into account any doubt about the facts of the case in the presence of such a case. It has been reasoned that the current operation will probably not be enough to solve the problem of the State's Pension Fund and that the problem is much more widespread in the world's pension system. High-priority system now is not likely to produce long-term results. Price mark on another hundred billion dollars. to buy out time in this matter is quite high. The above letter, by permission of President Gunnar Tómasson and Ólafur Margeirsson, states: The Icelandic Pension System's problem is not, nor will there be a lack of money, whether about 100% of the flow or fund collection systems, but, like everyone's problem, lack of real value and production. Today and in the future, a $18.5 billion donation to a special pension fund does not make up for the lack. The aim, then, is to ensure the pension rights of public employees and their potential for buying. So there is a direct need to highlight the overall reevaluation of the pension system, as I spoke for the last week, with the aim of ensuring that its behavior and scope are closer to what is needed to ensure the future pension right of all, without the need for regular intervention on the part of the State. Mr. President. Because of the bill, a significant decline in legal rights can result. It is unclear whether this is in accordance with the legal requirements of the constitution. There were differing opinions on this within the committee. Some said it was okay; others said it wasn't okay. Really, it is unclear whether it is morally justified to restrict people's pension rights regardless of whether they are compatible with the constitution or not. This is actually the main problem with the pension system. It is also unclear whether it is permitted to impair the pension rights in this way without a full-scale bill in the appropriate unions, as discussed in the Law Department of Giisla Gísli Tryggvason from December 1 onward. There he enters the crucial point that it is not just Generalist decision but, to a large extent, in contracts with employers. These include considerable intervention in their dress code on the part of the Generals if this is not an agreement. Here's the other question, Mr. President. It was a deal. The bill is based on the agreement between the government and the overall agreement of a public employment market since September 19, as noted. It's controversial whether the bill complies with the agreement. In accordance with the nature of the case it is unusual that the Council and the Ministry rest their work solely on the interpretation of the financial and economic agreement, but ignore the equally correct interpretation of other parties of the agreement. It does not help that many partners in the contract do not appear to have been authorized to make such an agreement, as some of the less members of the Member States and their references have been made. Mr. President. And then there's another problem I'm really worried about. It is the idea of correcting salary in six to ten years. For the bill, the argument is that by reducing the pension rights of public employees, it is possible to take steps to balance the salary of public employees with what is going on in general and across a general labour market. That's very nice. That is a good approach and a good goal. However, while the equation between a public and a public labour market is both positive and desirable, it is not obvious that the second step will be taken. In his review of the bill from December 15 onward, Gylfi Magnússon points out the following with the permission of the president: To this end, there is nothing but a solid promise that there will be an increase in pay in the public sector in line with the general labour market in ten years. No matter how good the promiseer may have when the promise is made, such a promise is in its nature without effect. It is important to note that with the approval of the bill, there will be a hatch in which the remuneration of a general labour market can be supported by a reference to the stability created by equalizing the pension rights, and that until the pay of public employees can be leveled against what goes on and the general labour market may not increase to any degree. These arguments may be used. I would not be surprised if they were to be used to justify the intervention of the Generals into a struggle, for example. seamen, but it is totally unacceptable to allow such justification, end at the Council of the Council not to have continuous intervention into the collective labour market debates. Mr. President. According to the bill, the right carer for pension generally falls to the end of their pay period of more than 12 months. This leads to a pretty bad problem, i.e. that a government worker who has had to accept the equal processing of the rights of the previous part of his career cannot make more than a year off from work at the government does not want him to lose his rights. This is of utmost importance because it is simply preventing people from working in the public from being free to go to the general labour market and walk back and forth as they each receive a better choice, even as interest and others do without getting into major trouble with their pensions. In fact, it is possible to say that the employee has entered a living room out of the working days. If he leaves the government, he's being punished. This is particularly strange, since one of the objectives of the bill was to facilitate the flow of workers between the public and the general market. It has been said that everyone is completely informed in this matter. That's not true at all. V.E.G. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs Bjarni Benediktsson at the time when the matter was being discussed at the Council of 145 C.E., on permission of presidents: I can totally debate that I would have had more time and more space, longer notices, etc., but I still believe that we have a obligation to try to see if at the council, we can't form an arrangement. The thing about which is optimistic is the fact that all interested people are in the agreement and have already studied the matter. And then he goes on: ▪ This would all be different if we were going out here after a failed attempt to achieve a bill in which we said, "We've had no agreement, but then we're going to cut the knot with this bill. That statement contains a problem. The council has created a huge amount of time pressure on this matter. On the other hand, the fact is that all parties have studied the matter and that everyone is a party. The fact is, there were quite a number of comments that people did not have time to look into it. Once that time has been spent with some companions, perhaps the bigger ones, have come to realize that this is just not in harmony with what had been discussed. Then all the bodies of interest stakeholders are going against it. In effect, nearly 100 of you are. People of the government, I don't have more accurate numbers than that, but I'm going against this case. If the agreement that made it possible is not a real agreement, and if people who should be involved have not had the opportunity to look into the matter before it is taken up here, then there is a prerequisite for this. Meeting our goals does not reach. By these words, Mr. President, I suggest that the case be denied, that it be not accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u25	Mr. President. Now we're dealing with this case, Pension Fund, as it's been called, in at least The second time here at the council. The case came to the budget in the fall when this was discussed, i.e. Just before the end of the council. I was on that committee as now and participated in that discussion, and I welcomed the visitors who came there and expressed their opinion on the bill. I must say, like others, that I join with those members of the council who have doubts about the bill. I am disappointed that the passing of time has not gone beyond what can be seen, for I have believed that the plan was the whole time to put the matter back on the part of those who do, and the amazingly speciality of not seeing any more changes. It may be said that intimacies exist over the bill to those who are being tried to negotiate with. In fact, you cannot say otherwise than what you read. There are far too many people within the community of the public sector who disagree with the conclusions presented here and out of a number of factors in themselves. I have serious doubts about the bill, as I had then. I feel, and it's a bit pervading, as indicated in the Committee's Section 2 of the Committee, to talk about the easy comparison between unions and employers. That's what we need to put together some laws, e.g. that there may be a remuneration, one of the things I've discussed before in a lock, so that one day, and somehow you may be able to settle your salary. The expansion of the pay box is one of the big issues, not just the one involved in not arguing with the acquired rights of public employees and improving the changes that remain unchanged, as reflected in the opinion of the 1st minor part, impairing the rights of funds partners, but the procedure that has come to be discussed here, to set up a group to figure out how to balance the terms. I declared it to them at a meeting of the branch office when the matter happened to her, and I have the same doubts now - but I'm going to say in the beginning that I support the ideologies of equalizing the pension rights - but of course it always matters how it's done like everything else that we do. I find it very special, this is years of work, that no attempt has been made to make some kind of projections of how we're going to level our pay. You can understand it so well when you think of the groups under which you have criticized, for example. Nurses, law enforcement officers, firemen, or who they are. These are a few of the groups that have paid attention to this. Officers gave up strike rights. I have asked a great deal about their benefits and how they have developed. In fact, they have not evolved into harmony with what was meant in this context. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir The armour of the son of Níelsson before, what shall we equal? The only official involved is the payer of the trade. I think that's a big question. I think it's important that we figure that out. Because, of course, the pension rights, and we all know this discussion, are part of the fact that public employees have many times, I'm not going to generalize, and I'm not always saying, they're being held down in pay because their rights are strong. Now they are to be removed in the form they are, but the rest is left in the future. I understand that people are concerned that they will waive their rights for the future rights at this time of the year and that they should be subject to governments will determine what they will do and what they will do. I have not forgotten the discussion about the rise in the pay of doctors in an effort to keep doctors in the hospital, especially the Land Hospital, to be competitive about outstanding people. It took so much to do so. And there was a tremendous conflict. We haven't forgotten. We're talking about a huge future project, a huge number of people, but no effort is made to estimate the cost to the State what it can mean for the future to improve and balance the terms. I understand that people who have their own rights here are uncertain that their benefits will be improved. My midwives, I can take them as an example. They were even taken of. They were not even paid when they were in strike operations and had to care for certain emergency stays, of course, and so on. You can understand these low-paying classes, they're at least I'm sure it's not well paid for many others in relation to responsibility and stress, etc., but we can also have conflicting views. It is a responsible part of us, and we must not forget that while any of us have engaged in this discussion in the autumn, there are a considerable number of new members who did not participate in this conversation, intending to accept the possible rights of future generations of public organizations and their families without our having anything, both the state's funds and the price. I remember that in the fall when we discussed this, they had been surveyed by women's classes, since they are now underneath. There were quite striking numbers, I think it was 15% or 16% between the VR and the SFR, the current pay difference. That wage will be equal before we begin to equalize the terms between the general and the public markets. I'm very Greek. I'm not gonna belittle the fact that there's money now that's good for putting into the system. Some would feel responsible to do so. But then there's this big thing I don't feel responsible for, i.e. how we're going to balance our options. I'm going on with this to quote directly into the bill because I have doubts that the government of every era should have this. It says, by permission of the president: Then there will be the possibility that the pay balance will be within the scope of the collective agreements and financial programmes set out and that several other factors will be able to measure to counter measures, such as increasing production in public activities, reorganization and management of services, technical development, measures to reduce other expenses, etc. This is used as a basis for the inability to add a dollar number. Of course, that is all humans have tried to do and cannot imagine how they will repay their pay. However, I also feel that there is something very important about this, which is expressed in the opinion of the 1st section by then. paritaprevir For example, in the case of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, we are told that some sources believe that the bill may be against the 72th chapter of property law. the constitution, i.e. where there is a possibility that acquired rights will be lost if future yields or any other insurance options fail. That's at least One of the opinions below, which are gigantic and safe to say, could be slowed down for me, let's say. I can't see, if people want to take advantage of this money, that they disappear at the end of the year. Whether people want to settle accounts in the Federal Bank if they think that they will destroy them, they can probably not be controlled as far as they are concerned. There are things you can do not to take a case with this haste. The pension fund has been expected to raise the expenditures already, normal, we're getting close to Christmas. Everyone's made their own plans. I don't think it's a good thing. I also think it's a concern about pensions, i.e. To move between the public and the general market, that it be no longer than 12 months. A government employee, as stated in the opinion of a 3rd smaller section, referred to a maintenance in the form of a future threat, which has had to accept the equal processing of the rights of the previous part of work, cannot make more than a year of absence from government work if he does not want to lose his rights. Thus, he is, in effect, living out careers. That can't really be what's being meant by the bill. That can't be its purpose. When we look at it now and we go over it and think about it, and then we're not thinking of ourselves as senators, but of the classes that have been fighting long for improved terms, newly prepared to accept contracts, e.g. Teachers and other employees who make comments here, we must weigh them, not just the interests of government funds and the money that we now have, but to admit that we failed to do this by creating some visual image into the future. If we say it's not possible, it's just not possible, what message are we sending to people who are supposed to be under it? I don't know, Mr. Honorable President. And I don't know anything about which classes to aim, as I said, e.g. Officers or firefighters or who they are. But that is not even an attempt to say: After two, four, six, ten years, we are going to have something. There's something you need to take action on this aspect of the situation, which, of course, is the other big part of it I've been tracking. People are getting old. The remuneration I talked about earlier, 16%, is one of the things we know. But because we don't know what classes to aim for, we don't know who he is today necessarily, much less today, let alone the future. When a man looks at the situation as I described earlier about those people who have come in on board to us and the law have been put on because of a vote struggle, especially with the public, or with the people who have gone to a strike and thus achieved, with great damage to society, after some struggle to achieve better terms, I am not very optimistic for them how this can be done. These are my doubts regarding the advanced government and the Minister of Ministers who suggest this. I don't think we're going to make a deal with a labour market with this bill. I don't think so. It is often said that if things don't work out, things will all go wrong. Unfortunately, there are too many and large groups of people who disagree. That's the severity of this case. During a council, we may be trying to develop some parapolitic confidence. That's what we're trying to do now on the budget. Of course, doing so is very often difficult. But we should have put the matter into practice now to try to make peace, not talking about these weeks, though the last time the bill was submitted, it is as if an attempt was not made to make peace, neither inaugural nor among the most critical parties. When one member says, "It's just not according to the agreement, it's not a deal. How can there be an agreement if there is a lack of agreement about major aspects of the interpretation? I don't know. I can't figure it out. I'd like to finally go over what came out at the core a while ago, where this pay-company was being discussed. It quoted the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, by permission of the President: ... that the remuneration between the public and the general market would be impossible because these markets would be different in terms of professions/class members, education and other factors. Then there are various groups of servants who work almost exclusively at each market. There is also a great difference in the public market, i.e. between the state and the country, which is explained by a variety of levels of education. As a result, they felt that they could not build more work on this basis, so they concluded that both of them had to be built on better grounds and that they would discuss each other further. This may crystallize on my stand. Here I feel that I am acknowledging the inadequacy of the public: We cannot do this, before people lay their heads on some kind of job, I feel that we can't do this. That's how I experience it. Then there's one of my good associates who may know this best, better than many others in this room at least, a former senator, Ögmundur Jónasson. He said, with President's permission: ▪ The problem is that large groups of public groups are certainly inferior, but they happen in public markets, but the opposite is also true. If possible, a higher part of the government's pay system is probably inferior, but the opposite is not true. This is not a universal rule, but because of this, the Long - School Association has generally been more acceptable to conformity than their subsidiary organization. Is this not just what we need to bear in mind when we decide to accept the matter at council? Or denied? Now I don't know what it's gonna be like. We can have a lot of meanings about that, but I still feel the same way as I was in the fall, and I have doubts about this because of the big people here who have expressed their concerns and what I've traced on the salary. I think it's totally unacceptable. I would, if I were now employed as a teacher or professional adviser as I was, agree with this book, and short to members of Congress that this is not acceptable as it is stated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u26	V.E.G. President. Now you hear all those who support the minority committees say they support a huge equation of pension rights, but somehow it's impossible. I'm not going to talk about it, because it's hard to answer. One thing in the talk next to you. Many of the above - mentioned members of the body are overlooked by a member of the body. It is as if public employees always pay less or less. Hv. A senator specifically appointed firemen and police officers, how to level their pay on the market. These groups are not on general market. The question is, Who is the control man? If we just take education and such objective points, then why? A senator convinced that these men are inferior? This applies to many other classes, e.g. Teacher. Now there are some nurses in a private market - are the ideals of this far less? Also, when discussing an equation, it is reasonable for the senator to consider some of the other rights of public employees beyond the exclusive market, i.e. The law on the rights and duties of public employees? The job security and the like have been evaluated, so there are many factors involved. I'd love to hear a point of view. A senator on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. That's exactly what I said with the police and the firemen, the whole control thing. To whom should we aim? We have an excellent perspective on the benefit of cops. I have received a thorough answer from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who worked a tremendous amount of work to figure it out. It makes it clear that they have fallen behind. In particular, I mentioned this in connection with the fact that they even gave up on themselves. The right to strike, and we understand why, but then they included. that they should be replaced. It hasn't been tested, it shows these figures clearly, unfortunately. That's why I understand these classes have doubts. I also have doubts about what to aim for, exactly as it should be. A senator mentioned. Should we focus on education, are we sure that everyone has a lower term that we're talking about, these classes or teachers, or who's under it? That's the project that was supposed to be underneath here, the projections that were supposed to be underneath. That is exactly what we should be discussing, saying that we have come to realize that this would be necessary. Here we have some kind of frame for all these classes, there we can try to show up, and it takes about this long time on any particular year or so, whether it's two years, five or ten. But it's not here. That's why I don't know anything more than what. A senator whether this or the official employee is on a controlled salary unless, as I say, if we want to compare the police with anything, we have to figure out what it is that we want to compare it with because we have a long-term overview of the pay contract of the police. I have to say, that's exactly what I would have wanted to see under here so that we could handle this discussion with some sense. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u28	V.E.G. President. We cannot go to this job in itself in connection with this. We've got a pensioner's license leveled out here. The problem is that in all circumstances public employees are always expected to be inferior to the general market. I think there's just a big misunderstanding when everything's taken care of and done better. When we consider secondary classes, we have no principal class with those who do not work in public markets because they do not exist, so the only market is the official. We cannot, as many would like to do here and at a committee meeting, just take some group in a general labour market with as much study as you would like to, to film with a university person. Not to be overlooked is the market, which is why it is a labour market. There's a lot of demand, and public employees cannot say: Here's a raise, and I'm supposed to get one. It doesn't happen this way. Of course, it is by far the most common thing for us to complete this bill, equal to this pension right and then determine where and if above the head of a government palace and then what groups might. It doesn't have to be that complicated, but I know that there are really different opinions about how to do this. I am very afraid of how people will solve the problem in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u29	Mr. President. I don't necessarily give myself, as I said in my previous reply to speculations. The senator, that public employees in all respects are always lower in terms. However, this fact is stated in the bill we're here to agree that it needs to be met. It's one of the basics of the bill, so we can't overlook the fact that it's under here. The senator asked which groups leaned and thought it was not complicated. It's a pleasure to hear that it's not complicated, but why is that not the case? So, if it's not too complicated, why is it really not here? That's what I don't agree with the senator because I think it's a very complex project. It's a lot of big classes. People are not concerned that this may take longer. As I said before, if we had any strategy or were ever intended to do this, I'd be more calm than the ministry's told, as I quoted earlier, that men have already given up on the project before it's begun. They just don't think it's possible. What kind of message do we have for the people who live with this? They're not good, I think. Hv. A senator also spoke earlier that we were all so much satisfied with equal terms, but then we would be so conflicting with all of this together. A good goal to balance. I stand for us to be as constant as anything and as many people as possible in the community, but not just equal to somehow so that the money of state can get to some particular place and then leave the people in doubt as to what will happen to the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u30	Mr. President. I'm going to take it so deeply in my year to say that it's now a black day in the Icelandic legal battle because it's now time to eliminate rights that have been confined to collective agreements over the last few decades. In fact, it's not just a black day in the U.S. winning campaign but also in the history of the Generals. The general has proved, unfortunately, once again that its practices are extremely lacking. Now it's time for the end of the bill to be done quickly before the New Year's Eve. With members of this group, especially the recruits, we have not had enough time to settle down. They had a day or two to share their comments, prerogative in view that they hardly become much larger, the issues that arise in the council. In the short period of time, however, an economic and business committee reached a sixth point of comment on more than 200 pages. Let us see how the speakers are divided into ranks. Among those who say yes to this bill and who rejoice in it are: At work, Arryland, Dalaville, Eyjafjörður, the Council of the River Valleys, the Huns of the West, the Council of Whosavours, Isafjörður, the European Union of Iceland, the Santanian Farms, the United Nations Association of the Northern West, the Selvellium, the Sylgrensville Council, the town of Iceland, the town of Gardens, the Santanary Society of Woodwood, the Savillan coast, the Savillanavor coast, the Savillantic Society, the Scul, the Voltar, the Savaria, the United States'stic Society, and so forth. For example, this group also contains the Iceland Business Council. In the cast of the bill, you can find BHM, the Union of Icelandic artists, URV, BSRB, the Fole of Radiographers, Icelandic Nurses, the Foleg of Icelandic actors, the Fégag of Icelandic naturalists, the Fég Geologists professors at State College, the Office of Public Services at Vesunda, the Falgle of Generals, the Falglege of the Management Board of Staff, Iceland's Medical Association, the Postal Association of Iceland, the Prestas Society of Iceland, and so forth. I'd like to have listed here, too, in case I'd forgotten. It is noteworthy that the paymen speak in one voice, end with this matter, so I witness in the custody of one of the companies, by permission of the president, the most important interests in town's funds. It is a battle of men, a battle of men, which usually takes place in other circumstances, and a battle of men, which is not usually brought into the General except, in exceptional circumstances, when the law is passed on to work conflicts and strikes. The economist group of employees points out that the bill is not in accordance with the September agreement, and I would like to encourage members of the Parliament to examine their comments. This is not only the comments of a partner, a local partner, or a community but also of scholars. Hv. paritaprevir My associate, Mccarthy, quoted scholars such as Gunnar Tómasson and Ólafur Margeirsson in his earlier talk. Also among scholars who pay attention to this bill are the Gylfi Magnússon. However, it is not just the flea who is the primary lesion of the bill but the fact that both sides are not at peace with each other. I'm not going through all the evidence, okay? paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy went over them earlier, and others have, in fact, done that. But I'd like to count to the reasons that I feel most strongly about, they're the moral judgment that is involved in the loss of acquired rights, rights that have been part of the collective agreements over the last few decades. I remember when the members of the B-SR were invited to switch to A-C, and they were told they wouldn't miss anything about their rights to it. There were 2,900 people, I think, who swallowed that bait according to numbers from Iceland's Teacher Association. I don't think that many who swallowed that bait at the time are going to go to bed like the Hrefna, the wife of Kjartan, son of Ólafsson, when she heard of his war, will be under law. I also remember being ripped off from a government fund. As a matter of growing, a bargain was made with a high school teacher. Part of that agreement was a so - called stock contract or stock part. The purpose was that teachers in each school would be paid for by means of the application selected at each school. It is far too bad to say that little that no money followed from the State, as it turned out on the day when the promise was stuck sufficiently so that the kingdom could get away with it, so to speak. The General Assembly of the Icelanders now intends to take in the rights of the remuneration by means of strict promises of a higher salary in the future. Hv. paritaprevir In his speech earlier, Bjarkey Olsen remarked that the voices in the community were loud, saying that things would be wrong in February if the bill was not under law. I don't see how a bill that is opposed to up to half of all the people in the country can contribute to a stable workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u31	A respectable president. I'm a historian. We tend a little bit to examine the story from the beginning. One of my schoolmates was told that he had started all his school copies of the sentence: First the earth cooled off, then the dinosaurs came. I'm thinking about not going so far back to my historical review on this matter. Nevertheless, I'm going to allow myself to look back a little, for it matters to us why. Senators who will vote on this matter what its history is, that we can only understand why the pension fund problem, which has been talked about for a long time, has arrived. Why is the debt of state's debt to the public pension system in place? Whatever the case, why put money in this treasure? Yes, it is because the public payer, the government, failed to meet its legal obligation to pay the money paid to the pension fund. If not for decades, no other employer would have found out not to do so. I have to admit that despite my historical education, I just don't have it on rhythms for how long it went along. That is the problem, the cumulative problem that has been dealt with for a very long time, almost as long as I can remember since I began to watch politics. Let's go back a little bit. It provided hope for many, including mine, when this was reported by some of the highest levels. The secretary of the estate of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, who seems to have thought more about presenting things in an elegant way than to consider the contents of what he presents, that the equal rights of pension had been reached. That's what's been working on for a very long time with the labor movement. The labor movement itself has worked on the case in the public and general sector, and the government has achieved it at all levels. Now it seemed that we finally had an agreement. Good news, right? Yes, you would have thought so. The meeting pressure was signed. What does it say? Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson read here before section C- team 1, which is about goals and grounds. Yet, he did not read all the details, which says, with the permission of a president: The rights of the present funds in the SIRRs will be as valuable to bridges as after the changes in the order of pensions laid down in this agreement. When the equation of insurance jobs and changes in right work, the value of the existing funds are particularly guaranteed. I'll have to repeat it, with permission of the President: ▪ When it comes to insurance status and changes in right work, the value of the existing funds are particularly guaranteed. There's no restrictions on which cashmates are underneath here. This does not refer to active favourers, as was all of a sudden mentioned in the bill as the highest. The secretary of finance for Bjarni Benediktsson went forward. The 3rd Team also says, by permission of the President: The value of the rights of the existing funds will be guaranteed by special donations to the funds provided by the paypayers. The value of the rights of the present financial society is guaranteed. There's no talk here about 60 years or more. It's about the present fundmates. After this and with this agreement, there was also an agreement and an agreement was made between financial and economic ministers and the Union of Icelandic rural society. How Would You Answer? ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ Grunund Stadium The contract is made in view of the agreement between financial and economic ministers and the European Union of BHM, BSRB and KI on the change in the management of public employees of the day. 19 September 2016 In other words, the agreement between state and rural society rests entirely on the agreement between the Union of Colleges, BSRB and Iceland's Teacher Union and the secretary of finance on behalf of the State Fund and the Union of Iceland, on the other hand. I have a copy of those cops here. Let's just look at the page with the signatures on it. Who's signing this? That's the highest. Financial and economic minister for the state funds and Halldór Halldórsson, president of the Union. Here's the executive director of the European Union community. We have a confirmation of the prime minister. But then who will sign on behalf of the parties? It's Elín Björg Jónsdóttir, chairman of BSRB, Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardddóttir, head of the Union of Colleges, and Þórður Á. Hjaltested, chairman of Iceland's Teacher Association. What's the situation now? These are the three classes or their organizations that sign the agreement on which the entire issue is based. What is the position of the three who signed? They are all numbered against the bill that is discussed here and all say that the bill is not in harmony with the agreement they themselves signed. It's so serious that I sometimes wonder how many people are. Councilmen speak, not to mention the highest. The secretary of the Bjarni Benediktsson, like it's no particular matter, like it's just some question and that someone thinks this and somebody thinks it's the other thing, it's just a matter of finding something out of this or the other. Three of those who signed the agreement say that the bill is out of harmony with that. V.E.G. One assignment was given to Bjarni Benediktsson when he left this press conference, where he had conducted a demonstration of what he had accomplished, what had been accomplished in this case. It was making a bill based on the deal. It became evident right away. In the fall of the first bill, a minister suggested that he was unable to fulfill that commission. There were very many people in this hall who felt that they were not, and that bill didn't go through. It was presented here for the last half of the last year of the council. This is a new bill. To be honest and reasonable, as you should always do, the ones in the agreement state that indeed it is a step in the right direction. The bill is now more like the ideas of those who signed the agreement and contents of the agreement than the previous bill, of course, but that is not enough. It is not enough to write a bill that resembles in any way the agreement that you personally sign. Everywhere but at night. The General Assembly of the Icelanders would be an unacceptable method of work. Here we're just gonna say it's okay, sign one day and then come the next day with something else. I don't know if people were used to sign, signed on false grounds, I'm not putting myself in the world of other people's minds. But there must be some question about whether anyone meant nothing when they sat down and put in writing what was in the agreement. It was at least the resolve to legalize such a agreement, but it does not take place in the bill itself, either the first or the one we discuss here. I've been listening to what? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son in a few answers today questioning whether there is a higher rate of pay between public and public. I'll have to question it, with the premonitions I made earlier that you shouldn't be too in the mind of another, if that's the attitude of the Independence Party, state of the highest order. Secretary of finance. If such an attitude had occurred before the agreement was written, it would never have been signed, for this is one of the cornerstones of the agreement. Then we come to what's so sad. Here was a historic opportunity to be effective in these matters. Official employees gave in to their rights, confident that they would make up for what they lost by a certain measure of action. In other words, they were loyal. This is heavier than tears go to the highest. The secretary of the budget and the rest of the management sector have dealt with that confidence and that we are now going to continue this matter under the signs of time pressure that we or the rest of our administrations have created entirely ourselves. Had this matter been handled correctly from the beginning and in accordance with the arrangement, we would not be here in this time pressure. According to three of those who signed the agreement, the 60 - year rule is out of harmony with that. It may well be that we feel that they are wrong. It's just that, but that doesn't make it any different that they, as part of the agreement, claim they are. In fact, we recently received a message from the chairman of the National Teacher Union, which says very simply: The bill as it is now violates the Constitution of government funds. If it goes through the way it is, it'll be very appealing. No matter what we may think of the party's position, it's a fact that can't be overlooked. A discussion of these matters, a fundamental change in these matters, can be won only by trust and agreement with all parties, for otherwise we are simply changing the rights of people with authority from above. There we come to what is one of the questions we need to answer because it has been raised and there is no small question about it. That's why the Gylfi Magnússon's review has been discussed, like other whales. Senators have established whether the bill can simply be a violation of a constitution, as is also shown in what I quoted in a letter from the head of the Iceland Teacher Association. Is the responsibility of our senators significant if we are going to accept a bill that could be violated in a constitution? I take the responsibility seriously and the oath I signed to the Constitution. In fact, there are instruments to see if pension rights are part of the salary of employees. If so, why are we doing so? Why do we agree to something that affects it? Is that not what people are supposed to negotiate in collective agreements? Have we not been complaining about the possibility of taking a stand on our own wages? Will we make laws that directly influence the salary of other groups other than our own? Or are we in this pension fund? Hell, yes, I think we are. Aren't we accepting a bill of our own rights? I don't understand. I'm just gonna admit I don't understand. I don't see how a situation can begin in the same way and in the same way as it did in the past. In fact, the definition of the word "gatherers " has been established. There are such fundamental questions upstairs. A review from BHM on this matter calls on a certain definition of the term'scorrowment', by permission of the president: They're currency-employers, pensioners, and those who have rights in the A Houses. Even the terms we use in the bill we're going to take care of are not satisfied. Then we haven't done so well. Since we talk about BHM, it also sent a statement to us members of the Parliament today that their comments had been completely ignored. This was echoed at the BSRB Presidency Meeting. No matter how we feel about the situation. The position of these associates is that they did not listen, that the bill is not the agreement that their representatives signed. I can't support this case in the current picture. I will vote against the case in the present form. I can't afford to put aside a law bill that is in accordance with a part of the party that is not in accordance with an agreement that was signed. I can't sit by a law that works on pension rights that are unsure whether it's really part of the remuneration. And I can't sit by the sort of laws that are covered by tools that even include violations of the Constitution, and they decommissione their ultimate responsibility for pension rights. Despite our time pressure, the flaws in this case are like those in today's case that I will vote against it. Hv. A senator who spoke before me spoke of a black day at the Council today. I'm going to let me declare that I'm sad that this historic opportunity was let go of the courtyard. But it is based primarily on trust. Trust was ignored or at least read very seriously at the time of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance put in his first bill. I hope there's more to it. Generals will see the seriousness of this case and vote against it in the present form, because all of us should vote solely according to our own convictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. This is the second time I listen to him speak about this important subject that we have been discussing at the council now, and many people have expressed themselves about it. And there are a number of committees. Hv. A senator said that if I understood what was going on, he did not really understand what was going on. He mentioned a number of things that he thought were incomprehensible, though it is that I can't read better than that none of those points are specified in the 1st minority credit from the Economic and Business Committee where a representative of the Left Green Signed. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Does it consider it important to coordinate pension rates in a public and public labour market? If so, what changes does he think he needs to make on the bill so that he can accept it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u33	Thank you. 2.m. We're out of Suðvest. "Berry Haraldsdóttir, for an answer. I'm afraid I'm asking you to join me in a little silence. That's the first answer I'm going to answer in this single one. I'm very flattered. I'd still like to start by correcting some things. paritaprevir That's one of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's comics. I didn't say I didn't understand the case, not that I'm going to pretend to be some expert on this, but then I think I understand that much of what's going on, I've been watching these pensions very carefully for a long time, here and in my previous jobs. I do not understand the situation, and responsibility for it only brings me to the Supreme Court. The Secretary of finance for Bjarni Benediktsson. I have a lot of ego. But I'm not going to be able to explain what I think is going to have to change into the bill so that it will be in accordance with the expectations of those who were signed by the agreement in the 42 seconds that remain of my counterrobe now. I would've thought it was a job. Senators of the Economic and Business Committee to listen to the views that have been expressed in the agreement and to take them into account when the bill is made. For me, it's about that you don't sign a deal about one thing and then you go and do something else on a legal bill. It's going to have to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's maybe there I take my heart to it. Of course, it is shocking that the parties do not agree on whether the bill will handle the agreements and the agreements. But then I also feel that it is important to remind others, for the speech of both sides was all too important. The senator's responsibility for the bill he does, he transferred it, and he is now a member of Congress. Here we have an opinion from the greater part of the Committee, which includes representatives of the Annex to the Revolution, the Independence Party, the Front Party, and the Bjarts'future. I also understood the members of the United States, okay? paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, speaking to his minority party that he supported the bill but with certain adjustments. I couldn't understand him better than before in a speech chair than he thought the bill would handle contracts, and in all principle, it was in accordance with the agreement. The minor opinion remains from representatives of the left green as a dog. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, signed it because the importance of this matter is very clear. There is a motion that may not necessarily go directly into the changes in the bill per se or its contents. Afterward, a panel of representatives of Pirata, who cross over and say they suggest that the bill will not be accepted. I find that although I would have liked to have a uniform opinion from the Committee for Us noncommittee senators, it is now so relatively at the council on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u35	A respectable president. Yes, it will be evident, then, of the final outcome of the reconciliation. I'm not gonna take food. paritaprevir She's questioned by Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. I only quote myself in my speech that it is our members of Congress that vote for our own convictions. I've been over my convictions in this case. I have declared that I will vote against the bill in the present picture. I can't really answer for any other senator than myself. It would have been better if we had suggested that the decision be made by the Generals in this matter, the last assembly. paritaprevir Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, Jacob's, of forming an international committee on the subject, would have been better able to agree. Then it would have been possible to work within that committee on all those opinions that many have. In their talks, members of Congress have established, as well as minor, or minor, opinions. A senator came in earlier. Sadly, this was not accepted by the then government, but was taken to the highest level. The secretary of finance Bjarni Benediktsson took note of going home to the Ministry and building a new bill, and probably not knowing it, at least the idea has been to provide a bill that helped settle on this important matter party. Or what? Isn't that what we want? Unfortunately, it did not work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-8.u36	Madam President. When I started my walk at the General Assembly, one of the goals I set to increase my confidence in the public was that of this institution. I haven't quite understood how the treatment of this case is going to achieve that goal. I have to admit that the speed that has been on this and the speed of the flubber, so I'll say it like hell. paritaprevir Einar the son of Brynjólfsson, is not able to improve the respect of the Generals. Here we come to the underlying problem of this case. Once again, the public's trust in Iceland's operating system is under way. BSRB wrote a fine letter to us senators, who, by permission of presidents, said: ▪BSRB has repeatedly pointed out that the available bill includes the loss of responsible funds by a legal entity under 60 years of age without improvement. It is contrary to the agreement's objective that the rights of the existing funds in ER and Bridges are as valuable before and after structural change. Trusting in each other is the key premise for the peace of a labour market. If the bill remains, it is clear that the project is not finished and that there will be a negative impact on the communication between those in the agreement. This is a declaration of war that has been discussed trying to escape by hurrying this bill through with this tremendous speed. It is now clear that if we do this now, there will be some confusion of the job market and if we don't do this now, war will also be the same. If the war is inevitable, then how much will we pay for it before it begins? We're going to destroy 1053/4106 billion dollars. which is the amount of money that the state plus rural society have to contribute to trying to settle for someone who will not be happy? I think it's a butterfly. Madam President. Then I ask you, what are we going to do? What should we do in an effort to reach a workforce? I think it's possible to start with normal steps. For example, we might agree to go to the overall accounting of the pension system as I previously traced, both in my talk earlier in this discussion and in 1st. The bill, with the intention of fixing the pension system to the future, builds it up again so that it will last a time tooth and find a way to level the pension rights in agreement with the agreement that has been made but in addition to try to re-impose a new agreement that it may be distributed over a particular period of time, e.g. ▪14 years, as I mentioned earlier, except by the means of the precautionary principle that the formation of this great transfer can be reimbursed after making the good changes in the pension fund, which are needed to prevent the end of it, even though it may not collapse today. This would be a far more reasonable way to approach this matter. This would be a way that would not challenge a labour market as much, perhaps nothing, and this is a way that could be achieved any agreement in the community and show the people of the country that the General will actually gain the trust that they have lost in the past few years. It is clear that in this bill, there are a lot of important questions that remain unsatisfactory. It is a disgrace to the council to plan to resolve a case of this magnitude with a similar lack of caution, let's say, and actually testify. We're not supposed to work this way. We are to do much better than it is clear that we are doing it. People say there's so much rush to get away for Christmas, but I just don't have any sympathy for that idea, Madam President. I say for myself, I am come to the Council to work, not to take a vacation.
