ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u1	On Wednesday, March 2, Eggert Haukdal, a farmer, and a former general, died at the Land Hospital. He was in the age of 83. Eggert Haukdal was born in Flatey, on April 26, 1933. His parents were ther, Sigurður by S. Haukdal, a test case there, and his wife, Benedikta Eggertsdóttir Haukdal, a housewife. Both very Eggert were at the General Assembly as members of the Athletes. In 1945, Eggert, who grew up in Flatey, moved with his parents at the age of 12. In 1953 he completed his SAT exam in the Netherlands and later became a farmer in Bergishvoris, the first two decades in a social club with his father. Along with farms, Eggert took up social work in the Westland Islands, the Cradle fields, and the Southern District. He was in the administration of the Shire Union of Skarphéðinn 1961-1972, president of the Western Island Farmer Society for decades, elected in the Uranium Summit Committee of the Western Landing Frepps 1970s, and long since then was its point witness, a member of the European Commission and the Regional Committee of 1988. He was president of the Federal Socialist Association of the Rangers in 1970-1978 and was a member of the District Council of the Independence Party of the Southern District. When the former Independence Party in the Southern District of 1978 changed, Eggert Haukdal became the 1st member of the party's list in the district of the General election that year. After a conflict in the order of the list in the unexpected election year later, in December 1979, I decided to Eggert along with her supporters a special list and to qualify him as an outsider. Did I Eggert them how solid he was among his party members in the city of Ranger County, West Skaffle County, and other parts of the district. After that election, Eggert made support for the development of Gunnar Thoroddsens government, who was chairman of the government's management board in 1980-1983, as well as for the financial committee. He took his place again on the List of Independence Party in the 1983 elections and sat at the General Assembly as a member of the Sunnlands to 1995, sitting in the total of 19 councils. Thereafter, he was separated from his old party, and twice he was running for another organization. Eggert Haukdal made a big deal of employment and settlement in the General Assembly. He was in the management of a graffiti and was a member of the management board of professional companies in his home country. He was a powerful spokesman for the Southlands in agricultural and transport, supporting progress in these areas. For example, eight times he moved to the General Parliament to a bill for decommissioning insurance bonds that were not legalized. Eggert Haukdal did some of his own political routes, was independent of opinion, and gave his wrongs to others. These factors, as well as a powerful payment for the people in the district, led him to trust and popularity. He himself was warm, humorous, and pleasant in his dealings. He was a quiet man and did not go around with noise or speech, cultivaters and responsibilities in his work at the General Assembly as in other places where he placed his hand. I ask the council to remember Eggert Haukdalur, former general, by rising from his seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u2	The President has received a discourse, dated March 7th, from the Independence Party for the conversion of members of the Parliament, as shown in Article 16. Parliamentary convention: Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's selection takes his seat, Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttur, the head of the European Council of Iceland. Konráðsdóttir, the daughter of Consley, takes Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson as an assistant in the European Council of Iceland. Brynjar Níelsson takes his seat as the chief man in the Northern Council of the United States, Valast of Gunnar's Gunnarsdóttir. This change will be considered without vote if no protests are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u3	With letters dated March 1 and 8, the president has requested this, as per the 8th law of Figures 1. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board and on the board of directors, are covering a report on the National Revision on the Office of the Labour Research Centres and the National Reconnaissance of the National Institutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u4	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 858, of statemen, of Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. A letter has also been received by the Ministry of Health, where request is made in order to give a written answer to a covering request. 786, on committees, groups, and projects, from Birks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. Then the president has received a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms asking for every request to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 227 on social security, from Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's Daughter's Brynhi.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers, Ministers of Social and Hospital Affairs and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u6	A respectable president. The insurance companies have paid up wages but paid off large sums of money. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance how he feels about this. Has the Minister of Economics investigated whether this is in harmony with the laws and regulations or if he can take any action that might be taken because of this policy of insurance? Is it true that a financial minister is walking in this manner through the funds? Or does the minister not feel that it is reasonable to insist that either their accounts return to the customers in the form of reduced income bills are stored in the funds to meet future tragedies? Speaking of events: Has government or bank, or company, had to cancel money in recent years from these partners without having to reimburse it when it comes to reevaluation? Still asking, a respectable president, has the highest. The secretary of finance, any chance of getting into this matter through government possession, government ownership of a government bank, the pension fund of government employees, reached the main meetings or governments of these partners, or tried to influence in one way or another that men don't pay off profits, which, in two of three cases, are far more profitable than the combined profits of the past year, and let this either return to their clients or sit in the savings and wait for the injuries we know will, of course, be in the future? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u7	Mr. President. Many questions are addressed to me on the basis of information on the proposals that the insurance companies control on interest money. I'll try to deal with them as best I can. I still find it important to say first: The insurance companies are under the same responsibility as other jobs in the country when it comes to sharing with us, the council, the work market as a whole, the local community, the government, to regain the trust that broke down in 2008 and 2009 as a result of financial collapse. One simply calls for the practical suggestions that come out of the business plans for making profits or possessions, to be in the normal shape of what we know is still in the community after the events that have just happened. I can't help but agree with what. A senator must sound bad to all the people of the country to offer expansive increases but will at the same time be making money far beyond the profits of the past year. It's kind of incomprehensible for me. But they're stuck with shame of it. As far as I'm next able, on the basis of the laws and regulations on this matter, and after the Ministry's communications with the FEC, and after reading the statements of the FDA, there is in itself no legal authority to intervene in any proposals for interest. I think we also need to make sure that we make a difference between making money that is far beyond profits and other cases when making money in the past year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll come to my second answer which arrangements we've just taken to trust in the long-term interest of a insurance company. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u8	A respectable president. Although the owners are truly embarrassed, the public is left with the bill. We must look for ways to do better than count on this conduct here in a speech chair. A respectable president cannot assume that one year the State will come to affairs of these communities because they are so important to Icelandic institutions that they must be rebuilt, but within a short time, they can be hollowed. I understand, a respectable president, that 2 billion of one of these comrades is financed by loans. It's not making any money in the bank. It's borrowing the future in order to pay it out. I'll ask you again the highest. Financial Minister: Do we have a share in any of these insurance companies? Will we fight these plans at the main meeting in that insurance company?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u9	A respectable president. The bill before the council contains a wide range of guidelines designed to ensure long - term interest in the insurance policy and specifically depend on strengthening the insurance insurance insurance policy and increasing the monitoring of the country's activities. In this discussion, I think you have to pay attention to the matter. A senator said there's been a hole in the budget because there's nothing left but the shell. I think it's too strong to say. As the FDA has already published, the insurance companies, despite financially strong institutions that depend on the commitments they have made, are making money. This does not make us offended when people act this way to consumers, especially when it is the case with legal guarantees, assurances that we decide by law that people need to be accepted. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it makes a special point. With regard to government property, he has just been found in one of the insurance companies, in Sweden. [[The president calls.]] I need to understand more about how the State's voting rights will be handled, since, of course, we're passing laws on where that property will be placed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u10	A respectable president. I have a few questions of a different kind. First, I'd like to ask about the tax files or reports of money in foreign tax taxes that were placed on funds to buy money. I haven't heard anything about this case; maybe it's the highest. Secretary to explain this to the Economic and Business Committee. But I'm on a budget committee and I'd love to see some of that money, if we have anything in there, come back in the box. I'd also like to ask about public shopping, but there'll be an interesting discussion about that in Castlight tonight. There was a group at work who has produced a report, which is the first stage, and many interesting things are presented there. It seems to me that we are not reaching out for this public purchase, it's just too much to worry about. Yet, we have a law on public shopping. I'd like to ask you if it doesn't have to do anything about this, since the government can save a lot of money. There is a comment that there are far too many business managers in the state, that they do not make use of the size benefits, and so on. How long should it take for these things to get back into perspective? Has the highest. The secretary of finance is in control of all our problems? Of course, it's a lot of agencies and a lot of departments, but I just want to know if he thinks he's in control of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u11	Mr. President. The General Assembly has approved funding to support the head of the IRS in financing. This happened after the government suggested it at the council. Last year, the tax investigator obtained a contract on the available data and was here quite under discussion, but I have no more information than the ones that have been reported publicly on how to process their data. One of the questions at the council to answer is whether or not a person should take a controversial amnesty route, i.e. to give a break against punishment in return to their tax returns, but, as you may recall, the Committee gave me a proposal for this in the Ministry. That discussion began here at the council and in society all, having a different view of whether it was fair and reasonable. As a result, I sent the case here to the council for further discussion, and I wait for comments from the Committee on that subject. However, this may prove to be an incentive to be more effective, considering what has happened in neighboring countries. With my public shopping, it's a special hobby. I established a group of people to look at opportunities to do better in public shopping. In the meantime, I've hired a special agent at the Ministry on the task of following the proposals of the Committee. I've recorded the case in the government, and we've agreed in the government to assign institutions to cooperate with those who are working on these developments in the system. But it is absolutely true that we do not use the common commercial power of the Kingdom in so many areas. I have a handful and, actually, a long list of examples of the fact that we're buying the exact same product at a different price depending on what institution is involved. [[The president calls.]] A great deal more success can be achieved there by action at hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u12	A respectable president. Thank you for those answers. I think the council is at the highest. Minister of this operation. I encourage him, that's a good thing. I'd like to ask a little bit about a social security operation. I inquired about what measures had been taken since 2013, when there was to be a working ground to be set up, and where it took place. Now I think it's the highest. The secretary of finance must have opinions about the serious problem of social security. I have to say, at the moment, I feel that the government is under control in these matters. To improve terms - good and good, but it's not going to save anything. That is an excellent procedure, but if it is all governments are doing, hands will fall. I want answers from the highest. Minister on what the government is doing to resist social security.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u13	Mr. President. I don't know any senator, and actually no Icelander, who supports social security. The government has promoted a healthy working environment for employment companies and individuals as a minimum possibility and opportunity to launch taxes. As we use the term social security, we need to be careful not to cover up all kinds of old - fashioned crimes and normal funds that are already being dealt with in the prosecution and in the court of justice. For example, if you don't deliver your tax dollars in six consecutive months, I'll give it to you. That's the way it is in our system. In this way, we are already taking, and have done, for decades, a very severe form of social security. Other measures may include a variety of means of crowding toward those who, in an orderly manner, intend to avoid their social obligations. [[The president calls.]] It is not a single option to discuss this. It is the number of options that are in progress or that have already been carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u14	Mr. President. Because I have the right to speak to the highest. The secretary of finance tomorrow is wanting to hear the highest attitude of the insurance companies in a special discussion that has been established. Prime Minister to the same matter. It is not necessary to conclude that these income and money - making schemes and the purchase of insurance companies on their own stocks, which work together at about 30 billion dollars. right now in the season, under the wing of the highest. The prime minister may well have stumbled the nation. So I want to know at first: What's the highest attitude. Will the prime minister do this? Second, has the government discussed this matter? Third: The form of any kind of attitude is the highest. Prime Minister that this is, that the insurance companies, in part on mandatory insurance, legal insurance, should feel as if soon after a collapse, in an effort to get away with this type of behavior, to get away with them in three years of 30 billion years. at the same time as they raise their trade fees? Tells you the highest. This prime minister is in accordance with the spirit of law on insurance policy, which puts special emphasis on healthy, normal business with the interests of insurance and insurance companies in mind? Is that a sign, Mr. President, the highest? Prime Minister, that the greedy zone is back on the road? Is it from 2006, 2007, that it is over again? Finally, you could ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he has supplied insurance with his insurance company. It was once a prime minister who objected to the behavior of a bank that shocked him by walking along with the media into the bank and emptying his bills there. Has the highest. A minister wondered, " Am I going to go to the demonstraight and protest with my feet, so to speak? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u15	A respectable president. These are a lot of questions, but I'll do my best to answer them. I'll start with the last question. Despite obvious admiration. The senator of my predecessor, Davíð Oddsson, and his methods of protesting them, I will not interfere with my own insurance on this discussion, but it is a bigger matter than my stand on the insurance company should make a difference. This is a very big case and a big concern for me. I can move up above the question and go to the second last question: This is by no means the law on insurance. And actually, like the highest. The secretary of finance mentioned earlier is of particular concern when it comes to legal guarantees, commitments that must be taken. Money companies and insurance companies need special rules. In a way, insurance companies are financial companies, so we always need to examine whether changing rules are needed to prevent unwanted behavior on this market. In this case, in particular, we need to wonder whether this activity, this market, was made up of the State of its time and was reincarnated. Because why? A senator asks about the position of the government, it's that it's unnatural on the part of these companies, but I ask back, What's the position? To this end, a senator, a former secretary of finance, and the influence of his decisions and his last government and how they were doing when they actually took over this market, rebuilt it, and prepared the order that the new restored market would still operate, and this is the result? Counts 'em out. A senator that he can point us to something that could have been done better when he was rebuilding this market, which, in turn, can be used to help us deal with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u16	Mr. President. If the highest. A prime minister is asking if it was a mistake not to let the insurance company go upside down, I don't think so. I ask them to consider what it would have meant for tens of thousands of clients of the company who had lost their unsupervised accident and disability benefits, which one day during the first part of the year would have been disloyal despite paying paybacks, tens of millions of yards as in all terms it would have caused far more damage than required to help the company. It is not reasonable to assume the debt of the current interest paid by the partners, all of whom have come to this elected period, well to mark, during that operation. The government came to only one insurance company, banks, and other such parties that, in part, came to some of the financial restructuring of other members. I'm asking in the present and in the modern. If the highest. Prime Minister wants to stay during his first term, so that's his choice. I repeat, when reading the insurance law, e.g. 1st and 6. Their law, it's like today's managers of insurance companies choose to take out just one word, it's become an ◯ shareholder, since the interests of insurance companies and adventurers are obviously there for a table compared to the spirits of the law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let me point out the dance insurance company of Tryg, which paid its clients 16 billion dollars. Because of good rain? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Should not the same be expected of Icelandic insurance companies? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u17	A respectable president. I reiterate what I said before. I agree with what. A senator says that these actions are not in the spirit of the law and that they agree with the highest degree. The minister of finance, in the past, explained the need to approach this matter. That seems to be the conclusion of these inquiries and comments, a respectable president. A senator. Foreboding former secretary of finance has made no special arrangements when billions of public funds were put in place to rebuild at least Of course, one insurance company - and indirectly, the State came to all others because they had all the financial systems they had - and no arrangements were made to restore this money if circumstances developed like those we are looking at. This, a respectable president, must cause us to worry that such provisions have not been precarious.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u18	Don't forget that I'm responsible for the insults too.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Healthcare Minister on the matter of a seminar in those spoken words in Iceland's University. The topic of the seminar is the right of women to make decisions about their own lives and to review the law on abortion. Last November, in an article published in the medical journal, several gynecologists and obstetricians pointed to various aspects of the legislation on abortion that they consider to be out of rhythm at the same time. First, there is the concept itself, the embryos of the century. Many believe that this term is a valid term and that it is better to use a more neutral term such as a "weight break' I'd like to hear the highest attitude. Minister on this concept of use. However, what the doctors are most interested in is the position of women that two members of the woman absolutely do not have to accept her request for a pregnancy break, either two doctors or a doctor and a social worker. Our fundamental freedom - free thinking, which we live in the 21st century, is that each individual should enjoy self - determination and that we should control our personal affairs. This also applies to general medical treatments, sexual behavior, family planning, and pregnancy. Although the law is generally interpreted to this day, the willingness of the woman and her own evaluation of the situation and their personal success does not change the fact that she needs to get a subscription from independent sources to undergo a pregnancy break. It does not measure up to the earlier demands of the day's decision - making rights of people. V.E.G. A health minister has informed us that the legislation on abortion is being revised in the water. So I would like to ask a minister whom he received for the job and what they were assigned to reconsider, to consider whether the law on abortion should be revised from 1975 or whether the law of general penalties to forbid abortion is also required in that profession. And finally, when can we expect a conclusion?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Accept the Guðfún Helgadóttir query. It is true that this seminar is a time when I had a keen desire to attend. Sadly, though, I had to care for other jobs, including others. to sit here for answers in unsubstantiated queries and, of course, do so with joy. It is true that I have decided to have a review of this 40 - year law book, although only before his age and the views that existed in the community at that time. It is only natural then to intend to respond to calls from various parts of society for a review of these matters. I agree that the concept of using it as it was some decades ago is completely different and completely different from what we have today. Hence, it is perfectly normal for this work to be carried out. The comments as a matter of course. A senator stands out correctly. This is more understanding, it is more likely to meet the request that a person's self - determination right be respected in more ways than he might do in an old law. I have not yet completed the orders of the Outfit. As a result, I haven't sent him a final letter yet. These are ideas we're still working with in the Ministry. I'm still calling for that job. The work I have had in mind focuses primarily on the order, legal, and regulations under which I am a minister. It is probable that the work we start will be performed and that there will be an indication of a review of some other law, such as that of today. A senator testifies to the need to examine. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for answers and for releasing this important review from the stocks. I'm also glad to hear that it is the highest. A minister agrees with me that we need to reevaluate the concept when it comes to the delicate pregnancy breaker. I was wondering if it's the highest. A minister believes that the self-determination rights of women are completely unscored when it comes to breaking a pregnancy or if there are any exceptions. Then I am especially concerned about whether the right of self - determination is to reach all women and also on the basis of the arrangement made by the United Nations on the rights of disabled people. It is a natural challenge and a delicate task that the work force needs to perform. I'm very happy to hear that this work is in the lake and that it will begin as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u22	A respectable president. I've tried to avoid it - in leading work like this, when starting a job that requires professional expertise from different sectors of society - to have strong statements that lead to the work of a future working group such as this to a certain direction. Wait a minute. A senator treating me with respect to the fact that I don't want to give direct instructions on the contents and the results of the work being carried out there. I want to be able to approach the project very open and instruct that this work should be carried out on the basis of age of legislation and that much of the community is a completely different outlook, knowledge, and evaluation of the situation. I mentioned earlier that the work will be done on my part, I did not answer it in my first reply, since I will aim to get a bill in the fall of a comeback so that the council can comment on new legislation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to speak to the highest. Health ministers today on alcohol and alcohol safety policies. Now it was the highest. Ministers must be one of their first jobs, after he accepted the Ministry of Health, signing or accepting alcohol and alcohol use policies until 2020. It presents a number of major targets, i.e. limit access to alcohol and other drug sources, to protect vulnerable groups from the harmful effects of alcohol and other drugs, and to prevent youths from using alcohol or other drugs. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The most important step in reducing harmful effects and problems with alcohol and other drug abuse is to limit bioavailability. Among other things, it is carried out by means of maintenance measures involving the sales arrangements of alcohol, etc. It may now be assumed that governments and Ministers would like to have a common harmony in the Community legislation and the government's policy or established government at one time, including public health. The council now has a bill on the removal of the government's private sales at a store with alcohol. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, what is his position on the ideas it presents about taking alcohol out of the private sale of a liquor store and whether it harmonizes with the policy established by the government in public health, especially with regard to alcohol and drug control.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u24	A respectable president. It asks about the booze, so - called liquor shopping, as is sometimes said, as if alcohol were sold anywhere but in stores; ask me, " What is my position on the bioavailability of those materials? ' I haven't thought of access to alcohol as a problem in Iceland today, it's not. We can see almost every day the growth of new restaurants or places for drinking. In recent years there has been tremendous growth in these issues. We've also seen the government's alcohol and tobacco trade, this monopoly company, growing its sales places, advertising itself, whatever. It seems that it is the official policy authorized by the state, and within the world people are playing wildly. I'm not a spokesman for selling the permissible drug alcohol, which may be best served by government employees, public employees. Although I have big faith in many government employees, I also trust in the laws of the law to which I have worked until now, staff at a liquor store, a restaurant, to carry alcoholic beverages. This has not been a big problem in this context. Happily, in spite of this government policy in recent years, we are achieving tremendous success in alcohol and alcohol abuse, and especially among youths. It is a cause for rejoicing. In this respect I believe that public policy and the real situation in society have in recent years, and in fact, they still do well together.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u25	A respectable president. It's interesting to hear the highest. Health Ministers speak against the policy established by a local government in alcohol and alcohol abuse, which, as I read proverbially in the past, means, among other things, is the limit to alcohol sales. Many comments have been passed on to the General and Education Committee on this controversial bill, including from a surgeon who indicates that based on available data and research, there is only one of the most effective ways to counteract alcohol consumption and reduce the harm caused by consumption. A surgeon goes so far as to claim that the bill is in direct opposition to the important and what he calls ambitious government or government policies to promote human health in the country. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of one more trip: Does he consider to accept this bill and mean it by taking such a stand against the course he himself has approved? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u26	A respectable president. There's nothing new. paritaprevir In a way that would Ólína the Þorvarðardóttir's daughter from my words or words to those of others, putting into them quite a different understanding than the one that has been presented. I object that in my reply before spoke against government policy in these matters. It's just not right. It's a long road away. When asked about my position in a case that the Parliament is working on, which is not even a committee - called after a decision before seeing the case after the committee treatment - I feel guilty. Councilmen are mistaken in their discussion and are trying to lead the discussion in a different way than there is a reason. I would like to see what the council will take on this matter, what costume it comes from the Committee, before my position will be revealed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u27	A respectable president. I'm sorry to have to come up in person in the General's symposium to make a case of inquiry at a minister who claims that it is the norm of the Council of Congress that it is the norm in general. These statements are credible and not appropriate at the highest level. Minister. He would have been closer, for example, to provide just one example of this in confirming his words. We all heard how the minister just fell out here, since he was no longer worthy of anything but that the minister felt no reason to block or maintain the inhibition that is now taking on the sale of alcohol. This, of course, goes against the word - for - word policy I read from alcohol and tobacco policy that he himself has approved in December 2013. I bear these charges, a respectable president, and I'm sorry that the minister of the minister is going to run into this hole when he's directed to a perfunctory inquiry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u28	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u29	A respectable president. We vote on bill to legalize the law of Iceland's Penitentiary. It is proper to draw attention to the fact that the bill may be less about the Bank of Iceland than it is currently known. It is primarily a case of authority to establish a partnership to provide a number of assets that must be completed by stabilisation. Here we will discuss the adjustment made by a committee who has taken a good look at the situation and has consulted a number of visitors and including those who have been invited to visit them. The Ministry's representatives suggest that instead of being represented by the Society, it is heard directly by the Ministry. It's that big of a deal, I just wanted to draw attention to it. The majority of the committees are behind the motion change. There has also been a suggestion that the matter will then be taken back to the committee to consider more fully one of the factors involved, i.e. how the company would end, and the committee will discuss the matter at the next meeting. But the committee, i.e. More of her, stands for this adjustment proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u30	A respectable president. This is a very big deal. It's about a lot of interest, a lot of billions of dollars that come in the form of a stability proposal. It is about how to treat them all, to bring them in price, and to do so in a way that brings benefits to all and to all righteousness. At the same time, the interests of the citizens and the state funds are carefully cared for. The matter was bad when it came into the council, when it was a major problem, but fortunately it has been achieved in good cooperation within the committee and in cooperation with the Ministry, and on the basis of a number of good reports, to improve the situation and to replace it with bait. Thus, in the bright future, we will be able to support it. However, while the setting of this major project is fine with the bill, of course, it is still possible to screw it up. I want to use this opportunity to encourage the government and others not to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u31	A respectable president. I explained it to 2nd. I'm not signing up the commission. However, it is my opinion and ours that the existing adjustment proposal is greatly improved. It is not to be scraped off. However, we would rather have liked to see this in a public society or state agency. It's a private partner, so we're going to sit next to each other. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Guðmundur, son of Steingrímsson, says that there is now an all - out challenge on this great matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u32	A respectable president. This case has to do with all of us. It's a natural question of how we properly decompose the crash. When the case came to the Committee, it was amazing. The procedures set up did not appear to be in accordance with good government, so the committee has made significant changes in what is tremendous reforms compared to what it was. Moving it under the Ministry of Economics is an option. But I have to agree with it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir said, I see no reason why this can't be an official partner or something like that. That's why I'd rather have seen it a little different. But since the matter has come along so well and has been working very well on the committee, I will not be opposed but will sit with a vote on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u33	President. As mentioned above, there is a vote for a change in Iceland's Pentateuch. As here has also been tore something, both of us at the 2nd. The case, as well as under the vote, was a significant flaw when it came to the committee. I want to thank you. A financial and business committee for good work in very serious and extensive cases. A representative of the left green in the Economic and Business Committee counts, as mentioned in 2 Corinthians. issue, that the case has made significant positive changes in the activities of the Committee and therefore sign under the opinion of the committee in advance. But a panel of green green people, for the above reasons, will be sitting by the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u34	A respectable president. I can't let it pass by saying a few words in their behalf of a few important things, if you don't mind me calling it that way, is subject to the bill as it originally happened to the committee. I just want to be righted that the bill was presented in the light of the legal adjustments adopted by the Senate last summer, which assumed that these assets would flow into the Federal Bank and be handled there. After an opinion about the case, we got ahold of it. The Economic and Business Committee to help deal with the assets outside the Federal Bank. In view of this, the objective way in which this is being considered was considered, and the situation is in today's suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u35	A respectable president. I read in a magazine the other day that it was a revolutionary suggestion to suggest that ministers should not sit at the General. It surprises me not that it seems more newsworthy and revolutionary to say that piranha was attracted to such ideas than that a woman in her 60's maintains them. But a respectable president, I can't do this anymore. This isn't the first time I speak for this proposal. Before me, Siv the Friðleifsdóttir daughter had once recommended a proposal of the same nature. There is, however, a difference between the two of us. I'm going to take a few words from him. Siv's proposal was for a change in constitution. As we know, and it becomes increasingly clear that it is not easy to change. According to the Constitution, the Ministers of the Council sit at their office. So one or the one elected to serve as a general and become a minister cannot give up the voting rights unless giving up a seat in the Senate. Siv suggested the following adjustment to the Constitution, with the permission of the president: If a senator be appointed a minister, let him be removed from the council seat while he pleads for the Minister's office and replaces his deputy. The bill is suggested that if they become Ministers appointed, they will be able to return to Congress during the election period if they choose to do so. This is a standard law bill and even a senator's bill, but I don't know where it is in the pecking series of this council. This is a bill that can already come into effect, unlike the changes in a constitution which must be approved in a special way as we all know. The bill is moved so that if they want to, they will be accepted by the bill, they can resign and still go back to the Senate during the election season, if they choose to do so. The circumstances or interests of people, including members of Congress, may change in four years. They can be personal or political. It can hardly be expected of a few, not even members of Congress, that if they become ministers and cannot go back to their jobs during the election season if any such changes occur in their lives or that they cannot be made. If the bill is approved, it will be placed on an individual basis as to what it will or what he will do in that regard. It is not an obligation, but it is permitted and permissible and possible without getting too close to your personal interests. The results of the Parliamentary Committee that discussed the report of the WHO committee include the following, by permission of a president: The Council of Parliament feels strongly that the Council takes its work into account, defends and strengthens its independence, and makes a clear distinction between the legislature and the European Commission. The Council does not have tools to use in the hands of executives and judiciaries. This is one of the agreements of all paid votes at the Assembly Hall a few years ago, but we have not been diligent in carrying out what we agreed to do there. I have recently proposed a proposal that I expect has been distributed today, or I hope so, to restore national interests, i.e. An independent agency that deals with economic issues. It was also in the proposals of the Council of Congress that were approved here with all agreed votes, but the application has not been made. I would point that out because we haven't followed much of the standards we put ourselves here a few years ago. The Council of Government suggests that a new constitution is suggested for ministers to resign from Congress. On this point, according to the Council of Government, by permission of the president: With this, ministers are no longer members of the council and usually only participate in a discussion at the council if they are called to do so. Thus, it is made easier to observe and criticize the performance of the government independently. A respectable president. I can't believe I've got 25 minutes on the speaker's chair. I won't use them. There is no need to have many words about the urgency of this synagogue here, or the other, but to follow the proposals of the Council, which the vast majority of the people would like to be held as the basis for a new constitution. Hv. paritaprevir In her speech, Siv Friðleifsdóttir said that when ministers received a presentation on the primes of other government ministers and did not make a comment about them, they would be particularly inclined to put the primes also through their councils, which made it difficult for members of Congress to stop the matter or to make significant changes. Hv. ex-wife. Siv the Friðleifsdóttir daughter spoke from her own experience because she had been in the government for many years. I think it was a whisk. paritaprevir Jónsdóttir Jónsdottir, who once put it that way in the conference hall, how easy it would be to cooperate in the work here. I want to agree with that. The more people have been working on things before they are submitted, the more difficult it is to make changes, I'll be happy to witness. It is not necessarily because of subtle or evil motives, it is simply because of political cohesion. It's hard to break free and look at things from a distance. Hence, it is so necessary that those in charge are not in too many roles and that they can stay away from the details, that people can look over the scene, and see the big context. Of course, the change here is just a small step toward increasing the independence of the council, but each small step is important. I'm sorry, but it seems rather recent to me that we may feel that we don't have to fix or learn so much from the misfortune and disaster that swept society a few years ago. I have a clear view. Surely, making big changes has not made us desolate. But more important, we should take the small steps that we have the opportunity to do and not belittle them. Of course, there have been differences of opinion about what is suggested here. I feel that we have a responsibility to discuss the matter and to express our differing views. One day, it was said that the strength of a more advanced section of the world is too much for this arrangement. Government groups would have greater strength during the council. Let us not forget, most respected president, that the strength of the council depends on votes, and nothing will be changed in those matters. In fact, I sometimes feel that even though ten members of the council joined in a conversation at a council hall, I do not feel that their voice is unbearable. At that point, members of Parliament may have suggested more than they do today. If there was a great threshold, i.e. that the strength of government parties seems too high, could also improve the situation of government opposition and contribute to the increased active force. Some say, 'It costs money.' A respectable president. The democracy costs money. Good management practices cost money and better legislation cost more money, but the rest cost more, and I thought we had learned that lesson. I encourage the management and monitoring committee, who will be treated for this matter, to deal with it and to deliver it until 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator and other council members who presented the bill. I agree with what. At the beginning of his talk, a senator said that this was not a revolutionary idea. On the contrary, it is neither new nor revolutionary. I think it's a very moderate process. I'm sure the Ministers will resign from Congress and lose their voting rights as long as they serve as ministers. I think that's fundamental. I think it's as probably as if a judge isn't a general at the same time. I'm sure I do. I sometimes wonder, though, that we are still developing the preposterous arrangement that the Ministers are members of the council at the same time as they are ministers and have a vote at the General Assembly in the legislature. That doesn't make any sense to me. I'm wondering certain points about this proposal. In the bill of the administration board, it's different. It says, by permission of the President: The Magistrates don't have votes at the Council. If the General Minister is appointed, he will depart from the council seat while in charge of the office and then will take his seat. This is 89 st. the bill of the administration board and remained unchanged after treatment. Board of directors and surveillance committees during the last term. This proposal involves a minister's warrant - not a legal warrant, but a warrant - to disseminate. I realize that's probably because of what happened. Transporters of the bill do not feel that it is possible to make a judicial arrangement that directly forbids it. To 51st. By permission of the President, the Constitution also stands: ▪ The Ministers, according to their position of office, are at the General Assembly, and they have the right to participate in discussions as often as they please, but they become members of Congress. I wonder what. A senator is absolutely convinced that ministers cannot be ruled out as senators at the same time by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u37	A respectable president. I'm pretty sure of it. I discussed this when I first made this statement and have discussed it with many people, and I'm pretty sure that the Constitution needs to be changed so that ministers can report to Congress and return to Congress during the election period. That's why the bill is said to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker, who was illuminating, seems to me to have no reason to reason. In itself, I have not taken a stand on the matter, but I feel I have to take a closer look at it. The Senator said that it might be difficult to make changes, to treat matters in his council, etc., including the Friðleifsdóttir Fräuleind's daughter in that regard. The Senator also said that if the members of Congress increased, they would have more to offer. For example, if the members of the Convention grew by five - a small body of members, if he is in the government, I will focus primarily on this separation of the European Commission from the legislature. I'm not as convinced as the senator that it makes such a difference that ministers are not members of Congress. They won't stop talking to their people, they won't stop talking about their business, even though the appearance here will be different when they don't press the "yes" or "no" button. We know it's more expensive. I would much rather strengthen the government, that she would receive much better and more help than she has today. I haven't made this up to me yet, not at all. I totally understand what they're talking about here. [[The president calls.]] A more careful approach to the legislature - is it primarily by pushing the yes or no button? How does the senator see the complete breakdown between ministers and members of Congress?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u39	A respectable president. I think of it primarily as a strength. On the strength of the council, it's natural first and last of the votes, it won't change. First, I look at it from that point of view. Second, when members of Congress or Ministers - are to participate fully in the council, we naturally know that they do, but there are a number of factors. They attend a council meeting, and they talk there. As mentioned in the Siv Friðleifsdóttir's speech when she presented a comparable case at the time, she pointed out that when people had been talking in the government and speaking to them there, people would be so tiny and possibly - I'm going to let me use the word of the writing that is going on. Then the Ministers come into councils and move their affairs there, and they've already considered them, so they don't have the situation removed from which I believe it is necessary for members of the council to see the big context. I think it's important that the Ministers don't also sit in councils and represent the government there in a closed space. I don't mean anything bad by it. That's a fact. I don't think this will solve all the problems, but I think this would be a step towards better understanding between the Commission and the legislature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I can totally agree with the main theme of the case, perhaps trying to distinguish something rather effective a minister to members of the council. But I have certain doubts in this small community, even though they do not attend a council meeting and this by becoming a member or minister, they are given the stage of a council meeting to present their case and to follow them. Now, we know that there are differences in viewpoints today, wherever they stand and have done over the years. I don't see them getting to know them any more. I think it's just individual. But in this context, I would like to ask: Now there is a considerable concern that members of Congress work for ministers of all kinds of jobs, we know that. There are some factors that might support this connection. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator think that things will change too?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u41	A respectable president. Obviously, this is not just so that ministers come into their councils and talk about their affairs. They've been in the whole process with all the government cases. It's just like that, and most people get really caught up in what they know a lot about. I'm talking about obtaining this distance, seeing things in the big context, not being in the details and everything, but seeing the big context. I think it's important. I don't know if the Ministers will stop ordering members to do this or this. That's quite another ella because it's done. We're talking about the separation of the European Commission and the legislature. Though some members of the council are involved in preparing a case, they do not have the authority to do so. [[The president calls.]] They have some proposal for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u42	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech and for the case. I have to agree with that. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and others who have discussed this matter - not on this occasion but on other occasions and over the years, it's not that it's a new thing, it's been in Iceland for decades - that my attitude is getting very swinging. I'm either thinking that it is extremely important and good for me to tell the difference, from the princes to the triunes of power, but there are other arguments that simply depend on the importance that the government groups would have in the conference. It would, for example, be this way if everyone went on to this proposal in the present government and told themselves about the terms of Congress and called in the crew, there would be almost a dozen deputies in addition to the voices coming out of the Ministry class. Many may feel that it causes a certain democracy in the conference conversation. I kind of want to pray. A senator to help me take decisive action by having a clearer opinion of the matter than I have, i.e. To convince me that these arguments are not as heavy as many people would like to be let down and that the princely reasoning outweighs this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u43	Now I don't know, Mr. Honorable President, if I can be convincing enough. If we went to the season this year, we wouldn't have done anything because we heard more in members of the government class. They haven't had much to do with the discussions here at the council. I would have sometimes liked to hear a little more in them, I'll say it just as it is. The severity is first and last in line. Perhaps this would also be so that when ministers are appointed, they will be searched outside the council. We had very good experience with this during our last term, with a minister who did very well in his office but had no place in the council. This could lead to it too. I have never reasoned that governments and especially if they were little members of Congress who would receive ministers - I mean, members of Congress would remain small, the minister would be at their jobs, and would be here to discuss his matters but not in general discussion unless they were called.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u44	President. As we have seen, the suggestion is very mild. She's not too radical in that direction as a dog. On the contrary, a senator wants us to go in a position of almost clearance, that while a member of the council may decide to sit at the Council only at his office as a minister. This would be the case with each individual in his own jurisdiction to make that decision or that the members of the administration could make such a decision that he was going that way for the entire group. I wanted to ask you what. Because he here speaks of ministers remembering to participate only if they were called to him: So a member of Congress would assume that there would be almost complete limits to the case of the minister and that when the council asked for his presence or participation in special matters, in line with the cases under which he would hear? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u45	A respectable president. The motion is made this way because I believe a change in constitution is needed to make it different. In the other word I say: Yes, I believe a minister would not participate in general discussions except in his litigation, not in other lawsuits, but in the prime minister who is all around the world. Then I'd also like to say, maybe the Ministers would show more respect for being present at a discussion of their lawsuits here than is the case today. Perhaps they would sit here and listen to and answer when their issues are discussed that we all know in this room not being tested today. Perhaps this would also improve the work of Congress in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u46	Mr. President. I want a brief talk to explain my position on this matter. I'm one of the motion carriers, of course. But it's no secret that I would have wanted to go further. I don't fully agree with what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir that it must be spoken of specifically by changing the constitution. I believe, however, that the version presented here is reasonable because of that, as a boy. In his speech, a senator stated that there have been repeated attempts to make it clear that there is a clear understanding between the European Commission and the legislature authorities by the failure of Ministers to sit at council. That has been a great opposition. The evidence most likely presented - well, we heard a reflection of it in speculations. paritaprevir Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdóttirs, whose views are perfectly valid. It is proper to assume that at the first international meeting of a political party in which I was once president, I proposed full separation by the absence of ministers at the council. It was the Union policy for four years. Then was changed until shortly before the end of the last decade, that I suppose it came in again. I believe that this arrangement is important in achieving a strong separation and reducing what I call Ministering. In fact, it is not only I who call it Ministership, which is referred to in the General Commission report. It literally says that it was a minor responsibility for the misfortune of the Icelandic banking system and thus for the Icelandic nation. We who have been here for a long time, both were members of the statesmen of our administrations and government positions, and we sit in many governments, know exactly what this is like. Of course, the Ministers are putting forth great effort to get their affairs done. That's perfectly normal. Who Will Become Ministers? It's usually the ones with the most experience who have the most power, most of the invisible, so I refer to a conversation in the Pirates, where I'm a frequent guest. Of course, they use their power to advance their affairs. That's why I keep it, and I agree with it. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said that this may not be as big a step as many people wonder about hiding in it. It's an intermediate. People are authorized to do this. Still, those who choose to serve as ministers and resign will be members of the council. It does not matter whether they are formal members or not, their invisible powers are equal. Since I think this may matter, in the cases we know many in this room, when groups sit together in corporate companies, and there may be a rise in the perennial gaps between the classes, especially in terms of an elected period. At times, contrasting members of the Governing Body want to go another way, yet they are being oppressed for obedience. It's just that way. You can't say that in any other way. That's what it's been. We can almost see it happening here these days at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. I believe, however, that with this power, the force of influence that reaches other members of the government, this could be relevant. I believe that it is important to lift the independence of the council. True, it has become much more late in the years following a collapse. In the decades before the collapse, the legislatured legislature of the European Commission has yielded perfect power to the European Commission. Ministers, some of them long in the field and strong in their ranks, showed virtually everything they wanted without any defense. Although such men may not now be attending a council, we have only a few months since we witnessed the pressure of a bill that no one would trust to speak for but the highest power. Minister. That happened in December. That was the end of the road. A minister of state who gave a bill that no one supported so that it could be seen until the vote. Every time that this case was mentioned, the members of the Independence Party were here wearing emesis. But the platoon got through. So I think that in order for the council to be correct... that all matters are very important... that it is absolutely crystal clear... that there is a difference between the Lawgiver and the Commission. Although I speak in this way and make the shoes that the Council does not have enough independence from the executives, it is still that if we compare ourselves with other councils, there is much that seems to indicate that this council still has a much greater impact on legislation than there is elsewhere. Last week, I was with the Council President and two other members of Westminster, British Parliament, who included a long meeting with British chairman John Bercow, and who were very concerned about how the Senate works will wind up there. I was a little surprised to hear from the president of one of the oldest councils in the world that there is an event where the nomads that come from the government have changed. On the same day that I listened to the chairman of the council was adopted at the General Assembly of the Icelanders bill to legalize the full punishment of providing 90 changes. This suggests that the International Assembly of Iceland, despite all its influence on legislation, has a significant impact. However, there is another explanation that the British Parliament, for example, provides the preparation and consultation with political parties, as we know will happen in Scandinavia, a much richer nation. Thus, when it comes to the council, a significantly greater solidarity has been established. However, I did not trust to determine that precisely. I wanted to mention this as soon as I speak of the need to promote the independence of the council, for it is still that the Council restored to a considerable extent that was handed over to the Commission during the first few years after the collapse. It has been falling back on the old side yet it can have a powerful effect on legislation, i.e. ... oftheprojectsfromtheEnvironment. The reasoning as reason. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen had all such qualities that he should appreciate them. She's making her own expenses, and she's absolutely right. You need to look at these things. But democracy costs. Perhaps there is one thing that I do not agree with her, and yet she made no fasting there, but she made up an argument that we have often heard that this would lead to a higher level of government, with the nature of the matter and already with more members, more human beings in the hall, possibly getting an additional 10 to 12 men. But there is that experience, as it did in the past. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, that we have not had to complain about the fact that the members of the government are taking a lot of time for the Senate's talk. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I'm sorry, I'm busy saying. So I think there's no reason for that fear. But I reiterate that I think it's true. A senator once said that they might not be so great, the invisible power, that they may not change so much. The cost is also something that humans need to consider. But after all, I feel that this is a step in the right direction. It may be right next to you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir to change the constitution so that this step can be taken completely and can be spoken of. I didn't think so back in the day, but I'm sure I did. A senator who has long worked on the Constitution knows so much better than I do. I wanted to give a brief talk, Mr. President, to share my views with you. I believe this is a step forward and that it supports the independence of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u47	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to address members of Congress by full name, including their last name.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u48	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to be rightd that when it comes to what the Council has tremendous power to change legislation, it's usually because the law of law enters the council and needs much adjustment. I'd like to ask, because of what. A senator has been working here for quite a long time on the wall of the House and will probably study the activities of other councils in his foreign work, anyway. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's antlers don't think that the reason for the Senate's need and the need to change the legal procedure is because legal bills are simply not ready to enter a councilhouse.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u49	President. In some cases it is, but I could only get out of this winter, even from the last month, giving examples of the bills that came here and the bills that are in progress now with the independence of individual members of the committee's single forms causing the blackness to fall away very in opposition to the Supreme Court. Minister. I remember, for example, last year when we received a bill that assumed five types of personal funds in the banks, there was a whistle. A senator remembers a pretty peculiar law on the proposals. So it was thrown out because the council made its own decision. I could mention more of that. I take pleasure, as I spoke in my speech earlier, that it is right from the beginning. A senator explains that one of the reasons is that the bills sometimes come quite badly to the council. I could even name the ministry that I believe is the least of these matters, but I don't want it. In other cases, it is because in spite of all independent people who have opinions. But that has not always been the case. I've already been here running through a bad case that everyone thought was bad. May I mention the media law in my day, in 2004, I dare say that far from that, most members of the council were convinced of the case. Therefore, the president of the Republic was pushed through. On the other hand, the project and the council have also been trying to improve this by establishing rules for further review on the matter of the council and on the part of a special agency in the Board of Directors to compare, for example, whether the bill will pass a constitution and whether it will pass any other law. [[The president calls.]] It wasn't always that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u50	President. I appreciate the answers. The key to this is just a failure to legalize. Of course, it is the same when such culture is created at the High Council that the law needs to be changed, and hopefully the independence and strength of the council will not be reversed. It has to be acknowledged that I have been running around in a system club, and I am very interested in supporting the system around the Generals' operations. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would consider it a matter of exchange of council members for sufficient improvement in order to strengthen and strengthen the council against the Commission, and whether or not. A senator believes that something more than that has to be done, because after working here at this workplace, I feel that the CIA is not strong enough. I'd like to see and support my whole mind's suggestion, probably the only case I've ever been through. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, to establish a law office that promotes knowledge and access to experts when it comes to legalization. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that this is enough or whether there is much more to be done on the inside of the council, such as by church changes and more to make this a powerful and independent council that gives the Commission real and serious control.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u51	Mr. President. I have neither the strength, nor the will, nor the conviction, that I should agree with the explanation of the reason. A senator said she's changed into a systems anchor, I would never describe Porta's captain in that way. But I agree with what. Senator, this is just one step. I don't think it was a big deal. When this change is addressed to the full, so that not only is it possible but it is a problem that ministers are not on the same council, it is clear at least that there is a separation between the two aspects of the administration. It's important. We base on their trimetrics, and this is important for this to be done. Hv. A senator mentions what else should be done. I'm naturally thinking that if you want to prevent abuse or abuse of the only weapon that the government already has in need, that is. to hold here very long but sometimes rich speeches, that the Constitution can be changed so that such matters can be placed into a national law. I'll bend under it. I will not submit to the oppression of the Ministers here. Like what? A senator knows that we will take to heart the advice both of us are fully trained. Let me give you another matter. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir killed on in his speech, National Organization. You see, I had the experience of being a senator and had the ability to go to an National Institute of Economics, which was completely independent of an institution and without a response to what was directed to them. A man could thus get a glimpse of the most important issues here, i.e. The economics and the government's income. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very important to get it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u52	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u53	A respectable president. I find this proposal quite impressive in the context of this bill being a bill for a legal adjustment to the General Assembly. As we spoke briefly in the previous answers, me and what. 1st transporterman of this bill, in the bill, is required for a minister's warrant to be temporarily removed from the council while he is a minister. Of course, you would like to have it as it is in a bill of administration, both before and after the treatment. The administration and monitoring committee during the last term, that it is directly mandatory to the Minister to step out of the Senate seat while he performs the Minister's affairs. I think it's only a matter of fact, considering the tributary of power, because the experiment is in this country that we have total election election election elections and the highest votes of elections are being made on top of the council, on top of the legislature. That's what I think in the highest way. You're absolutely right. 1st of this bill stated earlier that this is not a revolutionary idea, as some media have claimed, that Piratar, who recently reasoned on this in his career, came up with a revolutionary idea. It's not. It's a moderate idea. It's very moderate and self-mannered. She's old, she's not new at all. Realing power is not a new idea. It's a very old idea and it's very spontaneous. As far as I'm concerned, there's shame in how badly we've done this country's real division of power when it comes to the legislatures and the executives. I'd like this occasion to cross the course of Pirata, which was recently approved in our career. There, President Piratar concluded that: The Piritates are not involved in a government where ministers also sit as members of the House of Congress Virgil. Perhaps it was that many, or anyone at all, thought that it was revolutionary that we are not going to sit in the government unless ministers resign from Congress while they are ministers. There's something we decide as a group. We cannot decide for others, but we have decided for ourselves and have done so, and much more, we agreed on this course, just over 94% of the voters within the Pirata. There's a lot of harmony there. Whether it seems a revolutionary idea or not that a group determines something like this for themselves remains a very self - determination. Although I support this bill with my mind, of course, on the grounds that it seems impossible to go further by changing the council alone, you have to wonder if this is not permitted already, whether a minister can't be removed from the council seat while he is a minister and receive a replacement. You see, I would've thought there was no point. For a number of reasons, people go for a matter of time and call in a replacement, so I'm not sure that this adjustment would be necessary. However, I do believe that by developing the adjustment of the order, the tradition could be altered, changing the pressure on a minister I believe today, to the point that they will continue to be members of Congress. If this bill had to be a law, ministers would experience pressure to depart from the council while sitting on the Minister's chair. Of course, that would be a very positive development, even if it was not under the constitution. When I read the 51st. The current constitutions I have to say, without consulting any specialists on the subject, would have made a quick move. 1st transporter of this bill, that with this article it would be permitted to put these laws in a council so that it would be the duty of a minister to disseminate at the Council while he was a minister. But, of course, there is the 2nd proverb, with the permission of a president: even though they are only entitled, they are also members of the General Assembly, I understand that there is a possibility that the Generals can be ministers at the same time; however, it is the first proverb I find quite open to the question, at least. This is not something that should be blurred, something we want to wonder about when the change has taken place. It should be perfectly clear. Therefore, I would like to arrange for this to be in the constitution, of course. In this regard, it is worth the effort to get into a fine document called the bill of administration to a administrative law. There are many very good laws. I have to say, every time I look at this document, I remember why it's important to try to do that bill and make it the Iceland Constitution of all the basics. There's 89 st. and 90th parr. ... thatI'djustliketokill. 89st. is said, with permission of a respectable president: ▪ Ministers speak for primes and proposals from the government, respond to inquiries, and participate in debates at the General Assembly as they are said, but take care of them, they become members of Congress. Ministers don't vote at the Council. If the General Minister is appointed, he will depart from the council seat while in charge of the office and then will take his seat. It's a very, very good pussy, I think. That's what it should be. But it is worth asking, too, what are the consequences of this excellent bill, since in 90 C.E. There is a ideological difference between the thought of the bill of a government body, the constitution of the people whose power flows from the people up above, and the tradition we come from, which is the origin of power from gods, and goes down to the king, down to the council, and down to a nation. From there comes the heritage of the Icelandic Constitution, from Denmark, from the monarchy. True, Denmark is a democracy. That's all there is to say. But there is a ideological difference. I think he's a good reflection at 90th. The bill of the Board of Directors, by permission of the President: ▪ The Council chooses prime minister. After consulting members and members of Congress, the president of Iceland proposes to the council for prime minister. If more of the members of Congress agree to the proposal, he is correct. Otherwise, the President of Iceland makes a new proposal in the same way. It's a long article, so I'm not going to read it all up. But there is a fundamental difference between what we think of power. Here comes the power from below, going upward, not from the top to the bottom. I know this isn't a legal explanation that's going on here, but it's a ideological difference and I think it's important, and I think it's extremely important when we think of basic democratic states, such as triple power, especially when we simply don't see it when it comes to the important aspects of our modern society. In a fine speech, sir. 4th, including n.. ................................ It's like that, whether we like it or not, and it's confirmed here by the wind. Councilmen who have once been the highest. Ministers, that there is always a certain authority that the Ministers have over the council, especially when they are also members of Congress. This is not only when they are also members of Parliaments, but especially when they are also members of the Parliament, when they are actually still members of a council, which I believe will remain the inevitable consequence, even if this bill were to be carried out and by law. On the other hand, I think that if something like 89 C.E. were to result, it would not necessarily be the result. The bill of administration would be legalized in the Constitution of the country. I believe there is a fundamental difference between the methodology, that it should be placed in a body of authority and put it in a constitution, on the other hand. There's a fundamental difference in which I think it's important. Of course, this is said with them in advance that I support the case and think it's good but I think it's going to take a lot further. To do this properly, I think it's going to need to change the constitution. Most important, perhaps last but least, I want to discuss the cost. When it comes to democracies and social changes, many think that anything that brings better or more efficient democracy must be enormously expensive and cost a lot of money. There are two answers. First, that's not true. Democracy is not expensive. That won't cost much money. It's not that complicated. We've been doing this for a very long time, and with a 'gaste, I mean all my communities, far beyond Iceland. The other answer is: Even if it were considerably more expensive than it really is, it would still be worth it. We're talking about the foundation of a community, the foundation foreboding, the fundamental justification that one has authority over another. Without that justification, only violence can be settled. Given that we don't want it, we want democracy. We must want it no matter what it takes. Otherwise, it will involve violence. I used to review what I expected one senator to cost each year, and I concluded that there were about 100 million each year. If we give ten ministers over the government, we'll tell ten senators a year, and that's about 120 million. [* See the senator's correction in speech at 9.3 a.m. 16.31.] If we give ourselves even more advantages, I think it would still be a good use of money. I took from bill to budget 2016 very few numbers to put things into perspective. The telecommunication fund is thus 700 million from a government fund. The church has 1,580 million. I want to reiterate this, the National Church has 1,580 million. And we're talking about how expensive it must be for proper democracy. It's just a quiet, respectable President, with perfect respect. Churchyards: 1059 million Constitution: 1,197 million Now I'm not necessarily, at least, on this occasion, suggesting that the amount of money be changed, although, of course, I favor the separation of state and church, and do not believe that religion should have anything to do with it. But there is something else to discuss. These figures help us to see that if we expect this money each year, it's a very low amount. An election may cost about 300 million a year. We're having an election in three out of four years; county elections, elections, and total elections. 300 million. K. True, there is much for an individual, but in the context of the budget, this is not a sum, and certainly not when it comes to the importance of the foundation of civilized society, which is, of course, democracy and all that is involved, including individual freedoms, etc. We are completely content to have to pay for the medical system, for law enforcement and human rights protection, for the judicial system, and for a number of organizations that we even disagree about whether or not to be on the throne. But every time we discuss democracies, the cost has suddenly become a terrible problem. I think it's a strange, respectable president. I don't know where this comes from. Maybe democracy just sounds too good to be true, but it's not. The democracy is not too good to be true. It's simple, it's cheap, but, above all, I'm sure it is. Therefore, we should not allow some pennies, compared to the budget, to hold us back from making such changes as ministers from the council seat while they are ministers. And even further away. Now I have nothing more to discuss this time, especially in the light of the fact that I have only two minutes left. But I'm happy about this, even if it's only to bring up a discussion about these matters, because it's important. When we became republics, we never finished the process, in my opinion. We tried to finish it in our last term. It has not yet worked, but we must continue our discussion, and we must never lose sight of being republics. In this country, we are going to keep things to the point where the cause comes from the nation and to the council, and above, but not vice versa. While this is not a legal explanation of the course of events, the fundamental thing we should never be removed is that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u54	Mr. President. I want to get involved with the conversation and thank you. A traveler, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, for her story. It is both good and beneficial to listen to questions about the case that are truly controversial, for more often than not, the concept has been established that ministers will not violate Congress while they are ministers. Surely, transporters of this bill are more sensitive to the subject. According to this, it is permitted that the Ministers resign, if they serve as ministers. And if it went any further, it would be necessary for members of Congress to resign if they become Ministers, then the Constitution needs to be changed. No doubt you are right. I feel that there are a lot of ways in this matter, and I totally understand the democracies referred to, the granting of the Generals to the Commission, and the emphasis on the separation of the European Commission and the legislation of the legislature. But I still don't think it's that simple. That is why it is good to discuss such matters. In many cases, social discussions, matters presented at council, and the discussion will be followed by a review of some issue that changes the work of the council and the democratic work practices so that things will be better handled and that they will solve so much that we have been criticized, both within and outside the council, on the matter of Congress and on the issues discussed here. To improve the way matters are done, whether they are carried out under a class, under pressure from stewards, or whatever pressure they are now, and that they are not working well enough even before they arrive at the council. The importance of the freedom of members of Congress is considered to be as much to take sides in matters, though they come from their own Ministers, that they should exert their strength in the council, and that they should have opinions on matters, and if they come from their own ministers, they will not be overstepped. I have pondered criticism in the discussions on these issues that have also occurred today, i.e. that there is a democracies against government opposition at any one time where the administrative body is more important in the discussion of society where he has a minister and also a deputy, as many as the Ministers of Congress. This is of greater importance at the expense of those in positions of government. I don't think it's very democratic, no matter who. I've put it this way: If existing government groups have much more than that and have ministers and a member of the council, that doesn't necessarily mean it's a good democracy. And while each class received the same vote, we know that the access of a minister to the media is very high. Added to this are the growing number of members who would be attending a council for the particular group. I don't think it's interesting if I think about democracy in that relationship. It would then be expensive to finance the cost. Then they say, What a price it is for democracy. Yes, if it was now a democracy we called after! When you look at the flaws of the case like the ones I mentioned, you can see that it can be insensitive. Let's think about the factors of the voters in this matter. You choose a party and you fight for it. More often than not, that group may be joined by one of the less elected senators. That is not to say that the voters have chosen you number two because someone else has been put in second place and not in first place. Then the voters have said that their representative, the man they chose during the council, has suddenly become a full - costume minister, not a voter at the council, but the deputy next to him. I think it's a little bumpy. You can think about it and think about it in this context. When groups of voters talk to their voters, travel through the country in terms of elections, and all that comes from maintaining a party job in the country between elections, those of the groups who are in the board also have a pretty high priority at that level with a fully appointed body of senators on pay plus a set of ministers who can travel in their office to their expense and do all they want in that regard to meetings and other things and then have a full body of members on the other side. I don't think this part of the discussion is to be underestimated when talking about democracies. We hope that such changes would increase democracy, strengthen the council, and understand the authority and authority of the administration. The talk was given. Skarphéðinsson But more often than not, the members of the council are oppressed to apply what their minister wants in various matters. Then I ask, " What would be the difference between the arrival of some of the deputies? ' Would they be otherwise, not being oppressed? Is there some gratati for the group of senators who came in as deputy senators, as it were, were less oppressed to obey. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson put it? It must depend on each senator's convictions and have a point in his nose to work on changes in matters that are not acceptable to him, whether it is a matter of his own Minister or anyone else. I feel the need to strengthen the council and the work within the council, just as it is. It really needs a lot of money. The Senate needs to be funded so that the contribution of the General to the Commission can be reinforced without the need for ministers to sit at councils no longer as members of Congress and only come to the council to perform the duties of the cabinet and speak in the matters that hear their litigation. Besides, I don't think it's necessarily good for democracy that counsellers somehow get out of touch with it, that they're going to be a mere member of state. I don't think it's always good to be in that position. Do we want ministers to be only officials, however good they are? But they are elected democratic elections for four years, not government officials. I feel that ministers should feel the heartbeat of the country and of the conference and of the voters instead of being locked up by some ivory tower and becoming official, with all due respect for all that class. That's what I wanted to talk about. But I'm saying for my part that I find this discussion healthy and good and that I am fully satisfied with the thought of promoting the independence of the council and that the issues coming from councilmen are so that the council has the greatest access to them and will change them if needed, all of them through and make changes in them. That there is no shame to the minister of the matter, though the matter changes, as the talk was made clear. paritaprevir Rewitted by Skarphéðinsson's son, I testify to him that in the council the committee took a case and jumped it completely up and made good changes. So I think it also comes from within, from members of the council itself and those who control committees, and from the confidence and initiative of members of Congress themselves, to take on greater authority that they have today according to Congress that there is no need for any change. They need additional support, special assistance, and funds to strengthen the work and work position of members of the Parliament so that they can take their place in the Congress and the Constitution of the country. I'm not going to have any further comments on the subject, and I'm glad to get such a subject to discuss it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u55	President. I thank the senator for his speech. I think it's good that we talk about this kind of thing and think about things like that. The Senator speaks as a regional senator from a very difficult district and has a view of the senator's work and a very different experience than I, a senator in the city of Rhiv. n. That's a fact. I wondered about what the senator said: " If we got divorced there, could that possibly make it possible for senators who become ministers to appreciate the work of a senator above what is today? A prime minister has been a member of a major department. Those who don't become ministers of the government party are in the 1st Division. It's this pecking order that's huge in politics and more than I'd ever imagined. Could such a change possibly result in a more serious view of the senator's work and would be more appealing to it than it is today when a person calms down all years of becoming ministers and does not appreciate the work of a member of Congress? Could this lead to some change? That's what I was wondering.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u56	Mr. President. Yeah, you can think about it from that side. When members of Congress become ministers, they may drift away from the traditional senator's work and run primarily to the role they are in and may not be too busy with what the senator's job is, even though most of them know it personally. Some come directly to the council and become ministers immediately and do not know it at the outset. I think it's worth thinking about. I may also be thinking of voters. I think we need to talk to voters and think about them. If we were to go to the point where the separation becomes the one that is being spoken of, between ministers and senators, would it not also have to be that those offering a list of ministers to know that they were choosing someone who might become their minister? So we don't need to take this further in the direction that voters have some choice of this rather than that voters suddenly ignore that their senator is no longer a member of the council and that he does not have the effectiveness of the council and its entitlement, but has become more official and distant than others? Would they have to be any such possibility of a ballot?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u57	V.E.G. President. The Senator says something. I think it's the connection. A senator makes between the voter and the people sitting on the list of offers being more than I had thought of. People have been chosen, they are listed, and then they go into the council, and then, according to the pecking order, those at the top of the elite department go to sit on the Ministerial Class. Well, then I think why. A senator is saying that the voter has already lost his representative, that there will be someone else inside who is not as valid an agent. I have to say for myself that I find it a little difficult to put myself in this and to think about it -- character recognition is actually my second hobby, that people have the right to choose people on a list - if they don't answer this question rather than that a senator becomes a minister and let go of Congress and then people lose their deputies? I don't quite get it, I have to say it, more dignified President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u58	Mr. President. As I've expressed myself in this matter, I'm just talking about the voters staging in their lists. He who lands there is more important than he who comes down, he was the top. You might say that it's the value of a personal term that I'm talking about. Then people see that the top person by becoming a minister is deprived of the right to vote. I think it's a big part of this to have to sit down with it as Minister to not be able to vote for a council in controversial affairs. Then I mention, to paint a strong picture, the involvement in the European Union, which scoured the entire society during the last term, or at least in certain places. If I had during that election period become a minister, I would have been very opposed to losing my voting rights and not being able to vote for that matter. [[Up front.]] I think it's very serious that the Ministers are not allowed to use their voting rights based on their democratic elections, and the voters were confident that a member of the council will follow the policy as the party speaks in elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u59	Mr. President. I recommend a judicial hearing on the development of government policies on the classification, protection and registration of cultures. Transporters besides me are Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and Svavarsdóttir. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes to hide a marine eco-efficiency and agricultural minister to set up a working force to shape and set out government policies on the classification and protection of agricultural land, and to follow up with a plan for breeding and conservation measures. The file will be created and published in accordance with the requirements for digital national information in Iceland and will be support for land use decisions and changes in them. The Ministers submit a synopsis proposal for the classification, protection and registration of agricultural countries to the 146th legislation Council. I'm going to follow the Parliament's arrangement with part of the report that it brings. This arrangement was first made for the 144th legislature but was not considered, thus reinvigorated. The following report followed the suggestion: ▪ The Council's arrangement depends on some in 2kres. No. 81/2004, which a marine economist and agricultural minister submitted to the 144th legislative Council, refers to government policy on agrienvironmental systems when it comes to evaluating whether a rural society should seek the permission of a minister for changing land use. There is no consistent policy on agrienvironmental development, nor is there a consistent category that covers the whole country and is based on a consistent basis. Six. Embarrassing the bill to correct the change of soil law, along with comments prepared by a committee written by J. Sigfússon, the then pro-travement minister, appointed at the end of 2012, was expected to shape a national policy to 12 years in the synonym and setting up the land information base. As to this, we comment on the 6th paragraph. the bill of the rules: ◯ Here is newer in earth's law. This article is, in effect, a new form of the spine in the implementation of a layer of earth presented in the bill. This article aims to ensure that agricultural and planning authorities have a clear policy to follow up and information about agriculture to use when making policy decisions. In this spirit, the material available to the assembly is in this spirit. Although governments did not pursue agrienvironmental policies, nor did such categories take place, the legislation given to the 144th legislation Council of the legislation of agricultural countries, i.e. Farming and breeding are appreciated here on land, and are considered valuable. This is evident from the fact that 2kr. The bill assumes that to change land use in a land less than 5 acres [5 ha], and is a good breeding land, suitable for agriculture, or due to its coursing, a minister's license is considered otherwise important because of food production, to which he comments on the article that there is no definition of a good breeding land, and then becomes aware that the knowledge of the scope and value of the part of the land of culture is missing. This suggests improving the production and collection of information on farms. Another objective of the Parliamentary decree is to contribute to the development of a plan for the protection of a healthy land in the sense of cultivating or cultivating a land, an important, limited resource that can either be destroyed, debilitated, or grown. The shape of public policies on the classification, protection and registration of cultures is an urgent project. A built-in land is a limited resource. A report by the Committee for Resources since 2000, made according to Parliamentary Recontractation No. 26/122 on the provision of the official Committee on resource costs, it is suggested that nature can be defined as a whole or part of it, as a resource based on innovation. A country in Iceland is either new to economic goals or is useful. Thus, it will readily agree with the definition of the above - mentioned report, and it has been applied in a subsequent consideration of government land use. A good breeding country is a limited resource everywhere, especially in Iceland. It is estimated that only 600,000 acres [600,000 ha] of land can be considered suitable for local farming, with about 120,000 hectares, or almost a fifth, already being taken for breeding. The value of agrienvironmental land is accepted in the proposals of the Agency to the 2013-2024 national planning policy of the European Environment Agency, which suggests that the European Environment Agency will be set up and that a valuable breeding land will not be adopted to another land use with the appearance of cultural crisis and future agricultural interests, guided by the guide. For this purpose, there will be restrictions on land division and ◯ high prices and agrienvironmental habitats maintained for food safety and protection of agriculture. It seems that recently, with increasing leisure development, the use of land for food production has been put out of the way for other interests. It has been divided between owners or divided into areas under vacation areas without an assessment of their impact on agriculture, and it seems that some rural governments with planning factors do not place much emphasis on the preservation of agricultural land. This synopsis proposal is to resist such indifference to the important resource available here on the land in which such a country is located. In particular, major purchases or long - term collections of foreign workers in agricultural land have occurred outside Europe. Participation in Swedish investors, Black Earth Farming Ltd., however, has become an important landowner in the European part of Russia, where both grain and energy grow to a great extent. Here, there's little use of the property of foreign people on land. In the autumn of 2012, individuals with a foreign State owner or one of the owners were buried at 1.33% and only 0.37% of the land were owned by a foreign citizen in all respects, according to the response of the employment and innovation minister to Ásmundur EinarDaðason inquiry for possession of farms at 141th legislation. The answer is based on a number of farms, land options or use values such as crops. However, some have been carried on in the past decade or so that domestic and private companies have gathered land ownership, particularly on the ground of hunting and water rights, or the right to agricultural production. In fact, some of the people who were most concerned in this field went bankrupt after a financial collapse in the fall of 2008, such as the company's choice of life, and became property in other people's hands. For example, the modeling society of Vegetarians was established in such a way as this. to buy a cow farm of life selection in Flatey, East Skaffle County, which is one of the largest economys in Icelandic agriculture. The share of enterprises in agriculture and agriculture, therefore, is currently increasing and is expected to require changes, leaving the enterprises in various ways different from those of agrienvironment schemes. At the end, I'm just gonna access the resource protection. Many developments in recent years and decades have caused people to focus on the scope of the global destruction of vegetation and soil that has occurred in many parts of the world as population growth is faster than ever. At the beginning of the industrial revolution, the total number of mankind was close to 1 billion, in 1987 there were about 5 billion people on earth, in 1999 the total number was 6 billion, and in 2011 it was 7 billion. It is expected that in 2024 the total number of mankind will exceed 8 billion. There is evidence of how rapid the population growth in the last few decades has been that only about half of what it has become is a population on earth in 1970. At the same time as the number of people on earth increases more than ever, there has been a loss of vegetation and soil in many places, which will always reduce the potential for human survival, but will be more difficult to find in the world's population and the need for food. As a result, many countries have taken special measures to protect and build vegetation and soil. Herein lies the activity of the State's Rent and State Farmers an example of the government's government's public nature, which has produced significant results in the healing process, but special measures for the protection and maintenance of breeding land have not been performed. It may be noted that in Norway agriculture is widely practiced under conditions similar to weather conditions. In Norway, there is only a small percentage of the country like this, but nearly 3% of the total land area, or almost 11,000 square miles, is cultivated. Although there is insufficient information on the size and location of agricultural countries in Iceland, important information has been gained about the design, classification and spread of soils where international conventions have been applied and on the basis of this has been reduced digitally. At first, this map was part of Iceland's National Institute of Agriculture, but a database on which it was based was transferred to the Real estateat State and from there to Iceland's National Publications Index, with fusions in 2010. I want to at the end of the story that I believe this case is so growing that the whole world should be able to unite about it, and I think it's one of the things that should come from the council and get paid without being in the hands of the politicians. Speaking of the Ministership, the power of the council, and the influence of the council, I believe this is an example of some matters that may arise here at the council and are fully competent to receive good treatment on committees and then take care of and receive favorable payment and not always need to be brought to the Commission when laid out. I would also like to stress that the development of issues such as these and others at the council is very important that, of course, the council also needs to take over the power and expertise and be given more support to prepare both the Parliament's resolutions as presented here by a more detailed report. I thank you for the work proposed to make up this great and good report that follows this synonym to shape the government's policy of sorting and protecting and registration of cultureland, which may not be a big deal but is a big deal when considering the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u60	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct the requirement of various laws on the prohibition of discrimination, of the rights of disabled people. I'm taking this case for what? Premier Birts, Freyja Haraldsdóttir's daughter, who proposed the matter in the fall when she was serving as a deputy in the Senate. Other transporters, including wind. paritaprevir Freyja Haraldsdóttir's daughter is Brynhildur Björnsdóttir. Premier Brights the Future, and why. Councilmen Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Róbert Marshall. In chapter I, there is a change to general penal law, No. 19/190, with subsequent changes. Following the word "doubt" in 1st mg. 180. g. and 233rd par. a law comes: disability. Il. 1st chapter is a change in administrative law, No. 37/1993, with subsequent changes. 2.g. Following the word "ethnicity " in 2 mgr. 1 1. The law comes: disability. In III. section is a change in pay-employment law and insurance insurance policy, No. 55/1980, with subsequent changes. Section 3. Following the word "ethnicity " in pars. The law comes: disability. IV. section is a change in patient rights law, No. 74/1997, with subsequent changes. Section 4. Following the word "Uzbekisy " in 2 mgr 1st par. The law comes: disability. In the 5th. says that this law already comes into effect. In 1st. 1st par. track No. 59/1992 on disabled people's affairs, as they were changed by law No. 152/2010, says that the purpose of the law is to ensure equality and comparable standard of living with other members of society and to provide them with conditions to live normal lives. Two. The article refers specifically to the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. Notes with the bill that became the law No. With permission of the president, 152/2010 says: ▪ The change to make clear before considering the international commitments that the Icelandic government has committed to the implementation of the law is specifically referred to by the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. Then, on March 30, 2007, a social minister signed a contract on behalf of the Icelandic government and is working to prepare for the validation of the contract, while also the government's policy is to propose to the General Assembly that the contract will be legalized in its entirety. On June 11, 2012, the General agreed on a meeting plan to implement disabled people's affairs until 2014. On the basis of the plan, the State Department has led the work of a collaborator council to prepare the contract's validation. The Ministry has reviewed legislation in its own area and has proposed a legal adjustment to the terms of the contract. The State Department's report on the validation of the Convention on the rights of disabled persons, dated April 23, 2013, includes the review of Article 5. The contract that bears the signature equal and no object of discrimination. The 2nd issue of this article, by permission of the president, says: ▪ The Member States shall forbid any discrimination due to disability and to ensure disabled persons equal and adequate protection from discrimination in all areas. The former State Department report says that 5. The deal, by permission of the President: 5th pars. The terms of equality and the prohibition against discrimination are set out in the covenant. As defined by Article 2. The covenant says that in discrimination there are all forms of elimination or limitation, because of the disability that has the purpose or the effect of preventing disabled persons from being able to use their rights to the same extent as others. It is also considered discrimination if a disabled person is denied the so - called appropriate adjustment. It is important that legislation on equality reflect this understanding of equality. Also, special attention should be given to the status of disabled and disabled children and take action to protect them from multiple discrimination. In addition, a list of illegal differences must be added in Icelandic order activities. (b) How can we benefit from the counsel to " pay attention to our teaching '? 19/190 law on remuneration and insurance insurance rights, No. 55/1980, administrative legislation, No. 37/1993, and patient rights Act, No. 74/1997,156 The lack of discrimination on a certain basis goes through international human rights agreements committed by the United States to respect. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people is no exception, as shown in many of its terms, including the United Nations. 5th paragraph. which is quoted above. For good reason, the contract puts so much emphasis on the agreement that disabled persons receive adequate protection and clear protection from various forms of discrimination. Worldwide, disabled people have endured much discrimination over the years, and they still do. Iceland is no exception. Using this bill for law, there was a step toward clarifying and improving the legal protection of disabled persons against discrimination in certain important areas by improving disability with the review of illegal discrimination issues in the legal requirements of the law, which were specifically expressed in this awareness of the State Department of Internal Affairs from 23 April 2013, i.e. in general penalties, pay-employment legislation and the mandatory insurance of pension rights, administration laws and the patient's rights. There is a law of great importance to the rights of people whose experience shows that loyalty is very important to disabled people as well as to protecting them from discrimination. However, it is suggested that these legal adjustments will be accepted even now, although there is no doubt that the changes proposed to the differential law are presented in preparing the UN Convention on Distinguishing Human Rights, and there is no doubt that the changes presented here on the discriminatory directives of the stated law are essential to meeting the requirements of the United Nations Convention on the United Nations Convention to match disabled people and to provide adequate protection against discrimination to the important areas covered by this law. Thus, it cannot be seen that there is any evidence to be drawn more than the above to make the legal adjustments so that disabled people will certainly receive clear and good justice protection against discrimination in these areas. I'm going to do a little research on these articles. About 1st par. states: 1 mg. 180. g. a general penalties state that it defends the punishments of a profession or service that one refuses to produce or serve just as much as others on the basis of his nationality, color, race, religion, sexual orientation, or sexual confusion. Two. The same articles show that it was the same punishment to refuse access to others to public meetings or other places that are open to the public. Long history of discrimination because of the lack of access to public places, making it impossible for people to attend stores, banks, restaurants, libraries, theaters, sports and other places that are easily accessible to embarrassed people. At the same time, it is regularly denied goods or services based on disability. Count 9. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Discriminatory People, among other things, accepts the right to access. It is suggested that 180 str. a penalties will be changed so that disability will be added to the count of the bad ones and the penalties of discrimination listed there. 233nd. a General penalties are decreed that anyone who publicly ridicules, slanders, taunts, or threats to a person or a group of people by defamation or expression, such as by means of images or symbols, by ethnicity, by color, race, religion, sexual orientation, or by gender, should be punished. Faithful people throughout history have been used as parameters of laughter and humiliation. Clothes are often used to minimize undressed persons along with what disabled people often experience because of their disability. Research, especially the British, shows that with an increased hatred speech against disabled people, hatred crime increases against it. The fact that disabled persons are often exposed to misuse and inhuman and inaccessible treatment of various types is recognized. It is suggested that 233. gr. a General penalties will be changed so that disability will be specifically indicated in such articles as nationality, color, race, religion, sexual orientation, and gender. About 2. states: Semositary regimes take over to the administration of both state and rural society. There's a tape in 1 1. It's the law and it's 2nd. of these articles: ▪ Discrimination is permitted on the basis of viewpoints, based on gender, race, color, nationality, religion, political opinion, social status, family background, or other similar causes. Many disabled people need to rely on public service in daily life and therefore have to have great dealings with government and community. The experience of disabled persons in general is not good, but they are faced with many systematic obstacles, often misinformed about their rights and available resources, as well as waiting for solutions may not be in line with the rules of speech. It is very important that the disabled enjoy without the discrimination they have and need to go to the state and rural society and that their rights are clear and very visible. For a-a-dong 1st. Section 4. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons is specifically directed on the obligation of Member States to accept all relevant legal regulations and administration measures in order to achieve the rights approved by the contract. It is therefore suggested that disability be added to the differential reasons specifically specified in 2 mg. 1 1. Government law. About Section 3. states: 1st. it is recommended that salary and other remunerations negotiated by the labour market body be minimal, irrespective of gender, nationality, or recruitment time for all employees in the relevant profession in the Member State of the labour market. It is recognized that the disabled are very often caught up in a job market and may find it difficult to protect their rights there and be vulnerable to discrimination in that area. How important it is, then, that the rights of disabled persons to pay and other job documents under collective contracts are well and clearly protected by law. In 1st. Twenty-seven. The UN Treaty on the rights of disabled persons is specifically stated on the right of disabled persons to work without separate work markets and to obtain livelihood, as well as 28. The contract holds the right to adequate lifestyles and social protection. Both directives guide how Member States can work to that end. It is suggested in Article 1. the law on the remuneration of remuneration and the obligation of pension rights will be defined in particular as gender and nationality today. And finally about 4. In 1st. a law on the rights of patients is a law on the purpose of the law. In 1st. Their objective is to provide patients with certain rights according to general human rights and privacy, thus strengthening their right to health care and supporting the confidentiality that should exist between patients and health care professionals. Two. The article says that discrimination between patients is forbidden on the basis of sex, religion, beliefs, ethnic background, race, color, economic, family state, and otherwise. Many international studies show that disabled people are in a state of health care. Access to clinics and equipment, e.g. cancer - search tools are not guaranteed for many disabled persons, along with the fact that their illness may not be taken seriously, and prejudice within the medical system can contribute to less medical care for those who are disabled. Clearly, disabled people are often deeply dependent on the health system and on the service provided there. So it is natural and important to ensure good and clear protection in the law against all possible discrimination in that area. Twenty-fiveth. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people is specifically required of disabled people for health care and for good health without discrimination. It is suggested that disability be added to the list of differential reasons specifically specified in 2 mg. 1st par. patient's rights. V.E.G. President. I've finished my case for a while. I hope that the case will be established on the General and Education Committee, which will be expected to be referred to and that it will become a law in us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u61	Mr. President. I'd like to come into this discussion for a minute. We have an agreement with the United Nations. We have children's covenants and other things; somehow we say yes, and we do so little about it. I support the changes made here, and I just find them so for granted that, of course, they should have been in our regular work a long time ago. I just want to go over this because we've been discussing, what to say, discrimination against disabled people from time to time since I arrived at the council. There's a lot of discrepancies. It's fun to remember when we were discussing the general penalties, i.e. The violence bill we've been discussing on the General and Education Committee. It is not specifically stated to define violence against disabled persons, despite the fact that we have results from a study, especially about violence against disabled women, this applies to disabled persons at all. Haven't there been any reason to include it in the text that I felt bad but that I tried to make it happen. But it is believed that this applies to all, and by drawing some group aside, it may be creating more complications than smaller ones. So I don't necessarily agree because I feel, just in the light of what was over here, so much fractures in the system. Like what? For this to be accomplished, a senator must change the law of law and must change much more laws. In the report I'm going to give a witness, a respected president, that the results of this study showed that violence against disabled women was closely linked to their social situation and, therefore, a lack of power in which disabled women needed to rely on the support of others in situations that were characterized by such power imbalances and that they would often find it very difficult to report. It also shows that violence against disabled women is, of course, a number of things. It is expressed in words, actions, and threats, intimidation, inactions, harassment, or anything else. The women to whom the study was intended had experienced just different manifestations of violence. It was often long - term, and it also took place in various places and not just one worker but often many. Sexual violence, physical violence, or economic violence, e.g. When someone refuses, disabled people make access to or betray their money. I have come to realize that when a disabled person goes into a financial institution and plans to get his money, he or she is incompetent, or he was in that situation, only to care for the person on the basis of his disability. Of course, it's completely unacceptable. It is also known that the disabled person is not spoken to but, rather, perhaps, someone around him. The talk is not directed to the person. This involves a measure of humiliation. I'm most impressed that we look over this. Our work on bill was about domestic violence in general. Of course, this bill is covered in a wide range, but I decided to take it out a little. I was surprised that people at the Children's House are being interrogated. I think it's so humiliating, and I think it's so impossible. I don't understand that we haven't found any point in preparing an acceptable situation. I mean, people are quite healthy in their minds even though they're disabled. Like, if there's anything immature. They're adults. It is as unfortunate and unnatural to be interrogated in such a space. I have promised that we will discuss these matters in particular in view of the discussion that took place on the Committee and even that we will make a field trip in that regard. I believe this is the best thing to do, that we find a way, and I certainly hope that the council will accept it. It's even here. Quote general penal law, 180. g., which refers to disability as being added to a list of illegal and criminal discrimination reasons. Then there's 233. a, which is exactly about what I was referring to, i.e. ridicule someone or demean the person with some comment, attitude, or what it is. Of course, it's very important, and it's quite known. I'd also like to talk about something else that's in the bill, i.e. 3. g., where disabled people tend to lean on a job market and may find it difficult to protect their rights, as they say, and may be exposed to some discrimination. I think it's very important that we try to explain these rights. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People, specifically applicable to the rights of disabled people to work without separating a job market. We've also been discussing it quite a bit here at the council, i.e. The job. Somehow it is not ready to receive, it appears, micro-energy pensioners, i.e. People with impaired ability unless they are paid to do so in some way. Which is also humiliating because, of course, a person may have the power to work, even though it is not 100%. This person may work partially. But as with disabled people, I don't think the job market is worth them. There's very little to it, I think, that we see disabled persons in the general labour market at the jobs they can certainly do, and somehow walk away from the times and seasons that if the person is physically disabled, for example, he can't do jobs that may call in his head a sharp contrast. Madam President. I didn't mean to keep it this far. I just wanted to come into this because I find the discussion important to us and especially about violence against disabled women and discrimination in the legal system. Of course, there's something you've been talking about on the committee I'm working on, and I just wanted to sharpen it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u62	A respectable president. Now I think it's my duty to address the bill as a matter of course. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson is moving here today. There have been good and clear talks on the subject, so I have little to do with it. But I agree that with this bill, people are being guaranteed equality and comparable standard of living with other members of society. I think it's very important. I find support in the community and here at the council. I come up here to thank a prominent speaker for his good speech and good speech, and we will work with him wholeheartedly on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u63	President. I recommend a bill to legalize the protocol of a contract, but this adjustment has been under the title of the key bill for some time. When such a bill was first submitted here at the General Assembly by a former member of Lilja Mósesdóttir, it was not of great interest to make it a law. The main criticism was, then, that it should be able to work again. The matter has taken place many committees since my arrival and feels necessary - in view of the difficulty of receiving such a bill, with the argument that it is impossible to validate itself - to submit a bill without such a law. I think it's necessary that we have these laws as a legitimate protection for those taking mortgages. I'm going to read, with President's permission, from the bill to legalize the protocol of a protocol, No. 75/1997, full demand of real estate loans. The movers are Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Sigurbjörg Egilsdóttir, and Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. - Uh-huh. - At the 19th. The law adds a new paragraph, as follows: A creditor who, as a professional, lends a person a loan to buy property designed to settle and take a bet on the property to guarantee the loan's payment cannot fully consult the requirements of other valuable mortgages than the bet. The borrower's borrower's credit will be dropped when the borrower has made his bell, although his value in forced sales is not sufficient to pay the original requirement. It is illegal to negotiate in a way that is different from what is stated in the Law code. A report says: A TV comparable to what appears here was four times presented during the last term without its fulfillment. Material changes from the previous bill are negligible, beyond the fact that only the terms are expected to cover the loan agreements established after the bill returns to law. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the careful loaning of loans in this country by bringing debts into the hands of mortgage loans, i.e. The real estate, and if you hit the bank, walk away without debts. The bill is such an important factor in distributing risks in real estate loans and bringing the region's loans from the position that the risk is one-sided on loans. Regarding the alternative, it says: ▪ With the bill, a set set set of values (l. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Values thus reveal that demanding relationships between demands and creditors do not end in the first place where the demands of the worker accepts an acceptable payment. In this way the bill assumes that the requirement of a reimbursement agreement on loans, where loans are guaranteed by mortgages in the purchased estate, will be agreed to to accept that the surrender of the owned property into its hands is considered to be the complete payment of half a debt equal to the full fulfillment of the commitment. The saying is that it is not expected to be tested unless in need, i.e. When a debt has been paid and a legal requirement to take full advantage of its rights has become active. The 2012 London Economics report on resources for consumers in financial difficulties is a comprehensive discussion of priorities such as the above. It shows that similar resources have long since been available in many U.S. states and have failed financially in Europe, especially in Spain. As to the need and benefits of legislation, it says, by permission of the President: The need for legalizing measures, such as those recommended by the bill, was clearly seen following the financial collapse in 2008 when the gang of the crowning cash and the result of the success of the loan agreements became too much for the debtors. The lack of intelligence faced by consumers caused an unprecedented riot in the community that followed. It is essential to learn from experience and to implement resources to prevent the recurrence of history. In view of this transporter bill, how much better it would be to strengthen the position of the creditors that real estate loans are in the way the bill demands. In addition to bringing about the necessary resources needed to cope with economic problems, the potential risk distribution would encourage loan institutions to be used with quality loans. Thus, the bill made it a law, that the interest of a lender and a creditor would be united beyond what is currently, with the aim of a debtor to live up to the payments of his mortgage, and that the true value of real estate is not much less than the value of his credit agreement. Thus the likelihood of the formation of real estate vaccines would be reduced, in imitation of those who fell in the years prior to collapse. In the long run, changing the environment in this respect resulted in the poorest quality of society's loans. When I was new to the council and we were negotiating the priorities of the city movement, we decided to place a great deal of emphasis on Lilja Mósesdóttir'daughter's former bill because we realized that there was a lot of injustice in the case where they had both lost their property and were also living with a huge debt. Around all the insanity that followed the crash, there were quite a number of auctions, where very small amounts were offered to a house that was worth far more than the auction. For example, suppose you had a holding of 25 million. K. It was 18 million then. K. After the debt, the house was offered 2 billion. At that point, you were both looking for a homeless person, and you went back to debt 18 million. A., so the penitentiary was absolute, and there was no risk for those who gave their mortgages. So I think it's an enormous requisite for those who take housing loans in Iceland. As shown in the bill itself, it will hopefully become a much more difficult loans. A respectable president. Today, we've got a new real estate pool. The global economic climate is about to come. China is in severe contractions, and this will have tremendous impact all over the world. It is also worth noting that there is also a bad situation in Japan, and if the British take their leave of the European Union, Europe will experience a much deeper crisis than many have imagined. I think it's very important to cover the well before the baby falls back into it and it's important that we learn from the collapse. When I was compiling information for this talk, I went to Google's famous search engine and Googled a key bill. I found a very interesting story there. I found some stories and some interviews and quite many declarations from the present government. Before the election, it was promised that a key bill would be submitted, and I'm going to grab a story from October 3, 2013, by permission of a president: A card bill will be submitted in the autumn Summit, but Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson said in his policy speech yesterday that the bill would be submitted in the following weeks. The bill is under the direction of the social and housing minister and head of state and aims to enable the owners of the overcrowded apartments to be released without bankruptcy from sites that do not depend on. Prime Minister's talk shows that there is a temporary operation to solve problems related to the financial breakdown. There is also the process of exporting ways to help unemployable individuals pay expenses when they request bankruptcy. This is in harmony with a plan for domestic debt problems, as Sigmundur Davíð stated on his course at the summer council. Yesterday's Sigmundur Davíð speech also showed that at the beginning of the next year, special project management will submit proposals for a future housing policy. It will provide suggestions on the most practical procedure in financing of the general housing bar, ways to ensure effective tenets and suggestions on how to achieve effective social resources for those in need. On October 8, 2013, another report, was released, with the permission of a president: The Minister of State and Department of Social Affairs will submit their proposal on the so-called key bill. There's been nothing wrong with this. An article on the Independence Party's website is left to the present highest level. Education minister of Illugi Gunnarsson, written in February 2012 We grab in the section of this article, which has the subheading key bill, with the permission of a president: So we need to know exactly how large this group is, i.e. those who cannot live under payment of 110% of the mortgage. This group cannot wait for their pay to be improved and their housing to increase, but this development will improve the interests of those who have real estate and who are in debt to them. One of the things I think we can do is introduce the law of our independent ideas on a so-called key bill. By doing so, a creditor would have the right to return his home and thus obtain all the debts that are upon it. President. I still have not seen the alleged key bill that both government groups have mentioned the need to submit, or that it is available to contribute. I'm not the only one who's been waiting for something to happen, because if you go on the web, it's a special feature for the key bill under the heading: Key Marker and waiting for an answer from the State of the Home Office. On May 28, 2014, this is written: The request for the key bill called is to become like the story without end. First, in January 2014, the minister's assistant promised a reply. In December, ask.is published that promise. Then there was no reply in January, so February, March, and April repeated the inquiry repeatedly, both by e - mail and by telephone. Before the Passover, new information was asked: Yes, data are available for the week after Easter. Again, it was waiting, and nothing got over it when we got the best information. So ask.is again began to repeat an inquiry, for many readers have sent in a request about the key bill, especially now that a government-corrected application has been opened. It should be noted that since the beginning of the job, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has asked.is one of the advisers that answers in general quickly and effectively. At the beginning of this week, the question was received again by the assistant minister. A deputy was then in a foreign country, but he was going to send his readers a question for a weekend. Hence, hopes are raised in order to answer this repetitious inquiry in all the coming days, and we ask our readers to have respect for how late the answers are coming. Many of you have been sending in these inquiries for over six months. Shortly before Easter, the Ministry of Internal Affairs asked that information might be made that lines would be most clear regarding key elements called the week after Easter. Since then, questions have been asked about the situation and will continue for the next few days (see the preceding highlighting paragraph of 16.04,2014). The government's decision on the so - called key bill will lead the days after Easter. So this continues unreceptively, President, and it is clear that existing government groups need assistance in implementing this matter. This is precisely because of these promises and the concern of the government groups about the situation of those who face serious problems with payment of the mortgages that I decided to submit the key bill. I'm sorry, but I didn't get any members of the board to be on that bill in spite of a lot of valid promises for elections and just after elections, and I don't think so. I'm convinced that if we succeed, if we make a decision, we let this bill become a law at this council or the next one, it's going to legalize the loan market here. It's necessary. Some have said that it is not good to allow people to abandon their property, but I can claim that in lands where such laws have been in effect for a long time, they have never been a source of temptation. There has never been a problem when people simply run away from debt, and they have not made it difficult to borrow. After all, if you are borrowing on mortgages that are far beyond your property, something is really wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u64	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the tourists' guides. The carriers of this bill are Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Einarsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Þórunn Egilsdóttir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson and Kristján L. Möller. I'm just going to review some of the main articles of the bill. They are short and very clear. In 1st. says: The right to call himself a tourist guide is the only one who has allowed a travel agency to do so. The same is true of foreign occupations. Two. on the conditions of the application procedure, among other things, allowing you to accept Article 1. can only be given: a. those who have completed their training course in this country who meet the requirements of study logs on guidance from the Ministry of Education, b. those who have had the guide of local tourists to the main work for a total of three years, while by testing they show that they have the knowledge and skills needed to complete a study of guide and guide. c. those who fall under 2nd height. law on recognition of professional education and appropriate work in this country, No. 26/2010. In the 3rd. on the test of skill it shows that a travel agency is responsible for an audition according to Article 2. A travel agency may sign a contract that allows others to perform aptitude test. Here's a provision: Despite 2 st. can be granted as per Article 1. who have completed their training course at an advanced or university level here that does not meet the criteria of a-party 2. g., as a result, they applied for enunciation of these songs and demonstrated by an audition that they have the knowledge and skills needed to complete a manual study using a-a team 2. Articles 3 and 4. applies to the test of fitness according to this requirement. Here is a brief report that I will review, but I intend to read just comments that follow these articles. They'll explain it a little better too. About 1st par. says: The law says that the job guide for tourists is legally protected. The law alone does not limit the authority of tourists to guide tourists but only to use it as a job name. However, the law can pay for such separation on a different basis. For example, responsible companies in travel services may be separated by a person having a work permit on the terms of Article 1. The law should guide all travel on its roads to the wilderness or to the fragile environments of nature and thus contribute to the security of tourists and good relations with the natural world. In order to settle any doubts, the second article will state that the requirement includes the same meaning of foreign jobs. It refers to a foreign paradigm of a tourist guide. The only one who would have allowed, according to Article 1. For example, it would be permitted to use the English term ◯torist viddiide-lands. A travel agency's decision for permission is a government decision. So it has administrative laws, No. 37/1993, compare the 1st saying 2 mg. 1st par. These songs, including 1st mg. Twenty-six. ... advisingauthority to a higher government authority. About 2. says: The regulations recommend the terms of the permit in Article 1. The conditions are aimed at ensuring that only they are allowed to call themselves tourists with minimal knowledge and ability to support the quality of tourism, safety of tourists, and close contact with the natural world. Permissions to be applied to a travel agency evaluating both conditions of 2.g. is fulfilled. It is assumed as a principle that candidates have completed a manual study that meets the requirements of study logs for guidance from the Ministry of Education, as per the a-head of this article. The current study course on the subject is the Ministry of Education for Guideliness from 2004. However, the law also includes study that fulfilled the requirements of the older study logs for guidance from the Ministry of Education. The same applies to later study files. The B team is authorized to grant permission according to Article 1. Based on certain work experience, the applicant is shown by an audition that he/she has the knowledge and skills needed to meet the requirements of a-joints. A traveling guide's work refers to a job of the kind that guide study by a team is designed to prepare you for. The applicant must have earned taxable income from a guide, such as 7th par. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003. Thus, a story free of charge was not considered to be a guide. The applicant must have worked on the guide of tourists for more than half a job in order to have seen it as the main job. It is not required to operate under the direction of tourists, although it is common to work only part of each year in the direction of tourists. The C- force is designed to protect Iceland's contract commitments, including On account of the European Economic Area Convention. Other than this law, the license protocols of the c-communications follow legal requirements for recognition of professional education and suitable work here in the country, no. 26/2010, and executives who support that law. Just a little bit about 3. par.Unable to connect to The law states that it is the responsibility of a travel agency to make sure that those applying for permission under Article 1. based on b-axis. 2.gr. were asked to take the recommended test. The same applies to try-ins for those applying according to Article 1. based on c-populations 2.g. When appropriate. A travel agency is permitted to assign other people to prepare and perform an audition, but they are responsible for the incorruption of matters. It is expected that the test will take into account the requirements of study in a guide course from the Ministry of Education that is relevant to each subject. It is reasonable that a travel agency consults the Ministry of Education on the subject of the test. Quantity test performed by those falling below c-joint 2.g. The requirements for ability testing must be taken into account in accordance with law No. 26/2010 and to the administrations which support that law. The bill follows a very short report: The bill was first transferred to the 144th legislature, a 642nd case. This suggests that the job guide for tourists will be legally protected. Its aim is to ensure that those who have that name have minimal knowledge and skill to support the quality of tourism, the security of tourists, and the good association with the natural world. In recent years, the importance of transport to the economic supply of the nation's population has grown at an alarming rate. It is now time for the article to produce the nation's largest currency, a average of over a billion each day. This article's growth efforts have been made, and it is important to build up the article with the concerted efforts of tourism and the government. Part of the better management of tourism is staff who serve as tourists. Leaders are one of the most important links to the welcome of foreign tourists to introduce land and nation, to keep them safe, and to preserve the delicate nature of their journeys through the country. Most international tourists come from diverse, corrupt, and fragile nature of the land, where knowledge and experience from well - educated guides can make a big difference in the face of pressures, and tourists are more demanding for reliable and knowledge - filled guidance. As an example in the past few weeks, the safety of tourists in sensitive and dangerous places has been proved. Hence, the knowledge and experience of guides is one of the most important safety factors involved in the welcome of foreign tourists and their guidance in the country. One of the most important factors to ensure the safety and well - being of tourists who attend the country is the knowledge and education of guide and guide. Professional guides have the knowledge and ability to read in the complexity of nature, know the dangers that may be faced by tourists around glaciers, rivers, geystices, coastal areas, highlands, and they can read in rough weather, especially in the terrestrial and nearby mountains. Professional guides know history, culture, and everyday life in Iceland and can give a clear picture of land and nation, the key to good guidance and professionalism in the tourism industry. According to the bill, professional guides are those who have graduated from schools teaching the guidance of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Many, though, are working as guides without obtaining education in that area and have even served in these fields for years. This bill assures them that if the bill is accepted, they will be able to have a realistic evaluation so that they can gain recognition and receive the title guide according to these laws. It includes those who have completed studies from schools that have not been taught by the Ministry of Education. A respectable president. Many countries of Europe that have built large amounts of their resources in travel services have legally protected the work of guidemen. There are special protected areas, urban and urban parts shut down by groups without the escort of legal guides. There are countries such as France, Austria, Spain, Cyprus, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia, and Croatia. In Iceland, similar places could be our national parks, glaciers, and the breadth of the highlands. In the processing of this bill, a traveling overseer worked very closely with a guide's partner and believes that with the progress of his bill, his approval will be entrusted with one of the most important links in the ever-growing tourism chain. We want to continue to build on the ambitions to identify all welcomes and services to foreign tourists who want to take the country home. I suggest that the legislation on the protection of guide work be referred to. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u65	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the introduction of this case. I have to agree with him that the travel service we talk about at the council has become our largest means of employment. In part, it is stated in the core that the latest projections are assuming that the currency use will be around 400 billion this year. It is not a mere coin of any kind. In this context, we have also discussed much about the interiors, how the country should be treated, etc. which, in part, includes this bill, we need to consider the whole matter. I have given this matter much thought to myself by means of guides. After you have gone abroad, a national guide has been with them abroad, e.g. The Icelandic people like when you've been on an organized trip with an Icelandic travel agency, so it's all running around. The question is what guidance is, what travel is and what group control is. There are many things underneath, not just what I feel is here about, and the question is, Do we need to examine this from the whole law? In this regard, we need to consider what we want to have guidance and what its purpose is. Hv. A senator went over it a little from his point of view. The bill is negotiated with the guide society. In itself, it is worth considering that the phenomenon of guidance is not defined. There is a European standard for guidance, not for guidance. This European standard has been approved by Icelanders but is not yet implemented. We've had a lot of discussions about the tourism, the infrastructure, and the rest of the tourism ministers discussed, including the quality and environment systems of tourism, the Vatican, a little better bring it up. We took him from abroad and have adapted him to Icelandic conditions. As we left greens have talked about, nature and the reputation of the country are what tourists look for first and last in, and they agree with us. The companies leading in the category of environment and closer to their community are the companies whom tourists prefer and what we need to be careful about, both when it comes to the quality and security we have discussed considerably during the last few weeks. There are major factors in the future of tourism. The reference here is to evaluate guideliness, or we could make it possible for this Vatican to promote the credibility of the ministry. We need to make sure that people respect the special position we have and the service that it is and that we personally place it in foreordained. In 1st. The job vow is spoken of as being legally protected. I was at a council when my job name, study and professional adviser was legally protected, and I felt it was a real pleasure. It is all right for the job to be protected or dependent on the permission of a travel agency, but then we can ask ourselves, " Is there any disunition to be in order to see that it would be very clear that a tourist guide had a different level of guidance? ' Are we talking about direction in places? Are we in museums? What are we doing? Are we saying things about the highlands? Is that true of all who go through a guidance course? This, of course, is a variety of guidance, whether in hunting, in national parks, in mountains, or in what they are, and it calls for different methodology and quality witnessing. We need to consider that it is being handled by law. It may also be necessary to recommend what these different instructions would be, and then, of course, we need to keep in mind the safety of tourists wherever they travel in our country. I think 2. Most important in itself, this with the syllabus. We're here to suggest that a degree of education be legally protected. It is assumed that those who receive the permission completed the course according to this study registry or have comparable experience for three years and that, according to that, they can prove their qualifications. Two. it is decreed that the law also defended the activities of foreign citizens in this country, i.e. Foreign guides. We also need to ask ourselves, " Can I study in Iceland's Guidebook School of Education, which is familiar with Kópavogi High School for Education, the University of Akureyri, which actually teaches, that I understand, in some form of agreement with the Guide School, Re-education of Iceland's High School of Travel, Iceland's Travel and Keil? ' Actually, there is no common dictionary. These schools do not teach according to a common textbook, and I wondered where we are headed. So we're saying that there's only one school, Iceland's tour school, which will be the reason to graduate students? Must have to go through the whole system, then. Or will these schools join together and coordinate their study files? In the 2011 high school curriculum, each course of high school was sent to the Ministry's review, but I'm not aware that Iceland's Guideship School made such a suggestion to the Ministry, which means that there is no such recommendation. The bill, on the other hand, rests heavily on that. Iceland's University Re-education teaches in a study that is under the guidance of professional guides, but it has no administrative position. Iceland's Travel School and Keilir do not teach according to their claims, at least not which is then uniform or something that the Ministry of Education might be involved. I understand that the Social Guideliness Association is no other competent guides than those who have graduated from Iceland's Guidebook and Re-education of the University of Iceland. That's why, as I told you earlier, we need to examine it and to consider what is accepted and valid in these textbooks and those who teach this school today. We also need to ask if the Allied can approve such a bill which is not a definition of a valid or approved course. The B team is authorized to grant permission according to Article 1. Based on specific work experience. The applicant will then demonstrate that he/she has certain skills and knowledge needed. In itself, the test of skill must be based on the curriculum or on what it is. Of course, there must always be something fundamental to any study, though it is not necessarily accepted by the Ministry of Education. We need to ask ourselves, " How will I find the standards we will use when the auditions are put in place? ' The c- team are the foreign guides. I was told that in Egypt a man needs a local guide, as mentioned earlier, on every bus traveling with foreign tourists. In fact, foreign tourists are forbidden to travel in the country except on organized bus trips, which despite all but read English. In Greece a national guide is required on a organized bus trip, where a foreign guide may tell of something significant in the language of tourists, some of which may be related. However, in both places, the inside guide is obliged to speak English rather than speak any other language so that he can pass through it. We need to ask ourselves, " How do I want to deal with these people? ' As I said, these things vary from country to country, as were the case here. We know of this when whole buses bring Norwegians, bring guides, and bring food and food, and God knows what. It's just the whole package. This is one of the things we also need to deal with. At least I've had a natural guide to play with, I don't talk about delicate areas like the highlands and our very delicate nature. I think the bill may not quite cover what I've only been tracking, and I've been feeling it had to be, i.e. that the syllabus should be in agreement, that it be submitted by these individuals and/or that the Ministry must agree with this entry log that this is the reference, this is what we're going to say a person needs to have the plunger validated guide. As it happened, as I quoted earlier by the study and employment council, those who had studied after an old study or what was formerly the rights or laws from then on were set at some level that said, "It's changed from now on. " I hope that a professional committee will consider the matter with an open mind because I think it is important that the tour work be legally protected. I'm so impressed with the nature of our country, I'm not talking about guides, such as others coming to travel services, of course, returning a lot to our country's farm. We need to keep close arms of them as soon as we make them necessary. The idea behind this bill is good, but I think we need to reflect on the characters I've been tracking here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u66	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize gambling halls. Many are familiar with the word casino, but this is not the case. 51, No. Fifty-one. The matter was first presented to a Council of 143, by which time it was no. 501. It could not be measured then and thus did not receive any material treatment. Then another time, the matter was submitted. 156, No. 153 and still no recommendation. So the bill is presented for the third time unchanged. My importers on the bill are as follows: Councilmen: Arnardóttir Lára Arnardótttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Haraldur Valur Björnsson, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, Bribbur Níelsson's son, Miss Konráðsdóttir Kjordótir, Árnason Álmur, Guðvar Þórðarson, Steingrímsson the son of Brirnsson, and Brynhildur the Pétursdóttir of Peters. The bill suggests that gambling halls can be authorized by the Minister's permission; that the operation takes place under official supervision, that it will be set up a general law to promote responsible gambling and to prevent potential harmful effects from such activities. First, I'm going to make an explanation for the reason and the source of the bill. In the United States, a few discussions have been made in recent years regarding the right to legalize authorization of gambling halls, but according to 183. General penalties, No. 19/190, is such a criminal business, i.e. To support himself by gambling. At the same time, according to a score of 184. the same law, gambling, gambling, gambling, gambling, and gambling as it is said, as well as making money directly or indirectly by making it happen in their houses. The fact is, despite these legal requirements, gambling is permitted on the basis of a special law. These include lottery, Lotto, childbearing, and the activities of slot machines. So it could be said that a certain paradox could be in the law. Thus, there are many opportunities for the common people to gamble that are permitted by current legislation. In addition, the trend has been, unfortunately, that operating clubs invite the public to gamble that are prohibited by the law but thrive outside the law and rights without any supervision, without the rights of those who gamble. Thus, there is no monitoring, no income, no tax pay that could escape into the state's budget. So it is a operation that thrives in a black hole. In such an environment, gambling in Iceland is likely to fail. But it doesn't seem so, and I quote that in DV magazine last year, a respectable president, which describes the activities of poker clubs in the capital area. They may avoid a distance of 183.4rd and 184. The penalties, but there is no legal check, no tax returns, and no legal protection, as I entered, the players. The result of not establishing laws in this case, which clearly require the operation, is exactly the one I listed. In this paper article, among other things, it says by permission of the president: Since club clubs have been operated for some time and seem to be allowed to operate fairly uninjured, owners claim that a third party is not benefiting in any way. In addition, in November of November, judgment against such a case fell, where the defendants were sentenced to operate in such a place on the basis of penalties. Aside from the activities I've been discussing here, gambling on the Internet has grown and there has been an increasing number of potential players. As evidence of this development, you can see advertising in the media that advertises Web sites that are all equally saved from Iceland and therefore have little or no opportunities to monitor or set rules for them. This may be pointed to the judgment of the Supreme Court No. 577/2008, which turns to an advertisement on Bethsson's website. Based on the permission of the president, a part of the court's office is enough: ▪ Is there anything else to do about it except that the site you visit is foreign and that the activity it presents is entirely out of Icelandic jurisdiction. Since no reference is made to advertising, it is already necessary to justify the prosecution on this matter. There is nothing more to it than the fact that the site is hosted abroad and that the activity it presents is entirely out of Icelandic jurisdiction. Since no reference is made to advertising, it is already necessary to justify the charges of this case by a lottery or gambling operation that is expelled from the country without a clear license. A respectable president. The bill I recommend and it's being put out here doesn't solve all the problems. In part, though, this case highlights the fact that it is often no solution to forbid things, believing that they do not act as in the case of the activities that are already being delayed or those that have come to court. What we can give, though, when we draw this up and put such activities on the surface of laws or frames, is that they would like to be free of supervision, no income is recorded, and no income is left in the state's budget, i.e. When this is allowed to exist outside of law and order. So to me, the spirit of this bill is to face the facts and make it wise to include such activities and set laws toward the common consumer while giving support to those who do not know their way in these matters. In addition, this is a travel - service event and popular entertainment, both linked to city travel services and conferences. I'm going to review the goals and content of the bill and its main elements. The objective of the bill is to establish a general law on gambling halls in Iceland. The bill thus suggests that a legal license to play a gambling hall in Iceland will be permitted and is a new act of law. Furthermore, it is the law's purpose that all such activities be carried out under official supervision. It is thus assumed that the law covers the activities of a professional gambling hall and on the basis of a ministerial servant's permission. Because of the nature of this work, high priority is put on making clear the content of the permission department, the conditions for granting permission and the duties of the authorised authorities and their surveillance. The subject of the bill is divided into 12 chapters. Its chapter I contains laws on the purpose of the law and the set of values, key explanations or definitions of the main terms of the law. These include terms such as card palaces, but as I said, we may be more familiar with the word casinos, an active holding object that is not strange for those who work on the market of money, houses, machines, and gambling money. Il. section of the bill is about the license and the granting of the license. Il. A section of this medicinal product contains 4,◯13. par. and is mentioned in the first part of the section on the license; who grants this permission, which activities are classified as allowed or permissible, how the application for such a permit should be met and what the applicant's condition should be met for such a permit. In particular, the amount of time a minister has to inform the candidate of a permit protocol decision as well as a rejection if an application does not meet the set conditions. There is also a provision to address the expected licence holder's obligations for the changes in the job and how to implement applications for the renewal of the application. In the latter part of II. This section discusses the revocation of the Marketing Authorisation and aims to give a clear description of the occurrences and grounds requiring such a recall, when it is permitted, and how to report such a recall. In III. You can find chapters 14, 15, and 16. that discuss slot machines, use and rules that deal with security, winning, paying off winnings, computers, and monitoring. They discuss the rules of playing cards and playing cards, the equipment and service that are considered appropriate. 16th degree. The bill insists that the minister should provide further guidelines on the performance of gambling, including the level of gambling and the necessary limitations of gambling. IV. Chapters 17, 18, 19, and 20. where there is a further set of chips to be used in the gambling court and their treatment, on the exchange of cash and on the payment of the prize. Much of the part of promoting responsible gambling is strict requirements for handling chips, but much less about access and sexual contact. In chapter V of the bill, in 21st, 22nd and 23. Article 9 of the Council of the European Parliament, published by Jehovah's Witnesses in the United States. Many might ask, " Why is there such a age limit, but here it is simply an original example for a company of Danish authorities who went this way in 1990 and legislation requiring it? ' This section also contains obligations for security at a gambling palace, records to collect the deposit money, and time for opening. VI. This section contains 24.◯28. par. and turns to the company and communications with customers. It contains a provision for the registration of customers. But at 24 C.E. The article I would like to draw here says that the permit holder is obliged to record information about every customer and that he is obliged to present the values of personal IDs. The chapter contains the obligation to store information for the specified time and destruction after this period. Then, in the chapter, we find a code on business authority to place oneself on a card list at a gambling hall so that the person is kept out of access to the Hall of cards. I'd like to state on this point that this has given way to a lot of success since this kind of operation is permitted. Then I feel that a very important team in this regard is to promote responsible gambling and a way that can be used to those who have potential problems. If the customer thus requested such a registration, the employee of the permit who receives the request is obliged to inform the owner of the advice and treatment of compulsive gambling. At the same time, it is important to emphasize that staff are properly trained and trained to do their job. That's VI. section to find a warrant for documenting information on the criminal activities of the business to the specified criteria fulfilled as well as the obligation to preserve the data of a gambling house. Wll's. chapters 29, 30, 31, and 32. .., there are laws that deal with gambling halls, including conditions for recruiting and the prohibition on the gambling management of employees. Then, in the chapter, this responsibility and the duties of the permit are addressed in more detail in 31 C.E. The possibility of gambling in customers is presented to him by the counselling and the treatments available for compulsive gamblers. Commenting on some articles, it is desirable to consult a business organisation that offers the treatment for compulsive gambling on how best to do so in their cases. That leaves 2 mg. The responsibility of the permit holder is to establish rules on how to handle such situations. The final law of Wall. section has the permission of the permit holders to have a housekeeper and how to handle contributions made in such a box than a secretary made to set more detailed rules about such a fund, payment, and accounting. He's at VIII. section 33,◯37. Article 29 of the publication of the Council of New York, published by Jehovah's Witnesses, published by Jehovah's Witnesses. The IX. section 38,◯41. g., a law on playing hall surveillance is found, but according to the bill it will be the highest. The Minister of the Interior I.D. is subject to such follow-up. Two. Thirty-eight. it provides broad permission from the Minister for data and information collections as well as access to an investigation at a gambling palace when he thinks it is necessary. On page 18. 36 in the bill will be discussed in more detail on the 38th paragraph. The bill and I think it's proper to call attention to, but it says, with President's permission: In view of the fact that the activities taken up by this law have been banned in this country, there is no government to monitor this issue. When similar laws were originally set in Denmark, the same position existed and the law was entrusted to a minister in that country. After a few experience in this field, new overall legislation on the basis of gambling halls, lotterys, and other comparable games was developed, and a new administration was also established that supervises all activities on the grounds of the law. A respectable president. We know this discussion. In the event of a review of these laws and the experience of the Icelanders comparable to that of Dana's, it is good to consider whether it is appropriate to consider whether there is a basis for making an overall law on the gambling of this country with the establishment of a new administrative authority. It is my opinion, Mr President, that if this bill is to be carried out, there is good reason, but time must reveal it. In view of the rapid development that has occurred in all kinds of gambling and gambling activity online, it is appropriate to revise the overall legislation on these matters. How sad it is that if we can put it into words, a large part of this operation is likely to cross - line, the bookmaking sites that everyone can visit online, without any income coming from it into a government fund! Nor is there any possibility that there will be any monitoring or awareness of the extent. I can quote studies carried out by Daníel Ólafsson of the University of Iceland, with various questions. It shows that the number of common compulsive gambling has increased dramatically in the years that he has studied them. For monitoring at the highest level. Further, a minister says that he is authorized to access all the documents and information he considers necessary to handle it and to demand the cost of it to the owners, including the participation in specialised parties to follow up and oversee such activities. Then there is expected to be at all times during the opening halls independent of the accounting officer as a minister's command, not the managers of gambling halls. At the same time, you will find a provision for suspicion of money theft and responsibilities to carry electronic surveillance with cameras at a gambling palace. In section X, chapter 42. g., to find a penalty for violating these laws. However, it states that the penalty for guilt would be greater than that against violations under other laws. XI. See section 43.◯49. par. They deal with the taxation of the income generated by gambling halls and their arrangements. 43rd. is required of the taxable authorities on the basis of the law. At 44. There are special gambling taxes and how to calculate gambling tax. The taxation is high, and it is the same way that has gone to our neighboring countries and in Denmark or up to 80% gambling taxes. There is a reason to make a special report of the 45th grade. which states that a minister should set up a trust fund that has the responsibility of contributing to the research and development of treatments aimed at controlling the control of gambling and its consequences. But 3% of all gambling tax collected on the basis of these laws should be poured to the fund. In XII. see chapters 50, 51 and 52. g. There are various regulations involved in the Regulation and it is permitted to further measure the implementation of taxation on the basis of a law in the Regulation and in the implementation of force. That leaves 52nd. dealt with a change of law. Finally, there are regulations in the bill for temporary review because it is assumed that if the bill becomes a law, they will be reviewed within seven years of taking effect. Another provisional law states that a minister will only be allowed to issue one business permit on the basis of this law. There are a number of reasons for not starting with a single license in this country, but this is to learn from the experience on the basis of such a business and the application of the authorities to factors such as observation. The nature of the case, as suggested in the provisional principle, is a review with this seven - year revision. By the end of my career, I will discuss the purpose of such laws and of the interests involved. The bill is taking place, as I've been on, considering the dance laws and is actually going the same way as when Danir went through this discussion at the end of the 1980's on the legal process of playing halls. The discussion raised questions about what would be best for a Danish job, about the interests of a government fund, and about how to ensure adequate monitoring of the operation. The discussion concluded that gambling halls were permitted by the approved law there. This happened during the 1990 dance council. During the discussion, much attention was given to the tourism and its interests. Several questions were raised, among other things, about how Copenhagen's situation would be best assured in competition for tourists in other major European cities. Whether the law of gambling halls would strengthen the city's position was also wondered. Then special attention was given to the guests of cruiseers and delegates. That's not all came about. During that time, many illegal halls were fired in Copenhagen and elsewhere in Denmark, which paid no official fees and were not under official supervision. Thus, viewpoints regarding monitoring were significant in the discussion of legislation in Denmark, as well as in view of the anticipated financial gains of state funds and the legal travel service. In accordance with their view, Denmark had begun to make rich demands for monitoring and registration and to oblige a permitholders to have a large list of registrations to their customers to ensure safety and monitoring. In addition, permission authorities were made to provide access to information available to governments and police experiences in order to facilitate the implementation of their surveillance role. The cooperation of all parties involved was emphasized. By then the tax paid a high rate of gambling, claiming that the activity of the illegal gamblers has been compromised by the law, as a result of its competitiveness with legal gambling halls that are under strict supervision. However, after this one palace was permitted, and after Dana's experience, at least six of these have been opened since that time. It is evident, then, that the legal structure of the operation has provided a wealth of money that did not return to the State sooner, i.e. when such a business was illegal. At the outset, there was a ban on the availability of players under a certain age and the conditional demands required for visitors to show identity, passport, or driver's license at a gambling court. At that time, a license holder was issued on the information and surveillance obligation to compulsive gamblers, just as this bill does. If we wonder why we should legalize such activities, such public interests may be complex. I'd rather bring in three factors: First, such legislation would be likely to support and promote tourism with increasing resources of recreation; increased variety and length of travel. But as we know it, in recent years there has been a tremendous growth in this article, a lack of variety of entertainment, and this has resulted in the support of conference services. Second, the law would lead to increased income for state and rural society, thus ensuring a new financial influx. Third, and that may be what matters most, it would be possible to get such a practice that has already been developed in Iceland, under and on the Internet, under surveillance, to protect clients, and to send a clear message about who is involved in such gambling. These points involve not only laws but also the purpose of some of the laws. The economic benefits of the legal administration of a licensed gambling hall are not limited to the employment of the permit holder or to the effects of tourism because it is not the least of the tax paid by law-oriented activities. The number of gambling on the Internet is likely to increase, and the Icelandic government is going to be severely paid by not taxing the current activity. If the State gets to legalize such an operation that is not being discussed here, i.e. the activity being done on the Internet could further ensure the influx of funds to the state's funds and improve and better applied, according to Icelandic research, increasing prevalence, problems in this area, and increased participation by young men aged 18-◯25. These funds could then be used by our health or education system or by other the social welfare systems we want to build up. However, there is no economic gain that measures one - sided with this legislation. As above, it is in the majority sense that the access to such gambling for the public in Iceland is already at hand, as I did here, to a respectable president. I'm only going to, in the short time I have left, more likely to come up with the public interests involved in increasing control and implementing such activities under law, but here, illegal activities have taken place outside official observation, it is accepted. In many respects, those who do business in such activities are without a legal standing and are in danger of being beaten by fraud. It is evident, then, that the demands of both sides of the business of these do not have legal protection; thus, those who have a job because they don't want to handle customers in the law, and likewise customers have no guarantee of getting their winnings paid off. The legislation of the restricted gambling hall could include monitoring the activities already offered in Iceland and providing proper protection to clients and consumers that they do not have on the basis of existing legislation. Regarding the Internet, it is also appropriate to consider that Web sites offering gambling allows clients to gamble anywhere and at any time. Such sites appear to be small or limited standards. Thus, children, young people, and other defenseless people can be participants in such sites, which are considered to be dangerous. However, the nature of the matter remains extremely difficult for authorities to monitor. The legislation of the restricted gambling halls is accompanied by a suggestion that clear regulations regarding rights requirements will be legalized, in order to provide conditions for clients of gambling halls to reach 21 years of age. Such conditions send out a message that gambling is solely thought - provoking for adults who have the maturity to participate in it. By doing this, Icelandic legislation is also laid down to the reality of the reality, and a clear message sent that gambling should be practiced by responsibility, under supervision, and only by people who are in a position to do so. A respectable president. It's on the table at the highest. Minister of state. I assume that's what we're gonna do now. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for routine reviews and professional coverage.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u67	Madam President. I'd like to be a part of this discussion. Basically, we're what we are. A senator disagrees that this is right, despite the fact that this is an attempt to paint the image on the outside and on the hold, and everything is the best way to choose. It's just something I don't really like to think about. I'm not the only one who thinks so, I think. I can agree that these matters are discussed by a twin youth. I don't think we can hide it. We can talk about the Red Cross boxes, the High School Happiness, the arcades, and all that. That doesn't make me feel justified in setting up something called gambling halls. During the last term, they tried. paritaprevir The servant of Jónasson, who was then the Minister of the Interior, was to submit a bill with the basis for a long - term plan on how to handle these matters, which we know, of course, that have ruined the lives of many families. It's no secret. The idea, by means of that bill, was to build scores for gambling and, in time, move it into an arrangement that was less challenging. Of course, the pressures in the environment are one of the important factors in this relationship that have been observed, say those affected by gambling. The bill also contained an attempt to allow a limited network game in the hands of the domestics. But as we know, the bill did not succeed. I agree with the senator earlier that whether this bill would pass through this council or it would be necessary to cover these matters with some kind of law. We agree on that. It was tried, as I say, during the last term, and didn't follow. I feel that when the machines are being justified and all that is supposed to be a relief from a particular charity, whether the Red Cross or anything else, we must not give up on these matters because we know that gambling robs individuals of their freedoms. That's something we want to prevent. I'm looking at this from that show. Hv. A senator who is 1st sees this from other forms of friendship. It's like it is. It's like burning booze in a camp, where the public health pleasure is at first, second and third of my place before I look at the individual's freedom of other activities. The same is true of this matter. I can say that people can become addicted to anything, whether they're playing lotto every week or whatever they are now. But saying that's why we should let everything go, I don't think it's a good thing and I don't justify it. Like what? A senator is a young man who is in a certain danger, more than others. Then we are doing something about individuals whose actions are not self - willed. If we talk about the lottery again, they may take little of the number, but machines take a lot of some and sometimes all of them. In 2011 the results of a study in which a gambler was studied were presented. After that, as I said, they were trying to win a legal bill that did not succeed. Hv. A senator entered these findings before they were introduced by Dr. Daníel Þór Ólafsson, taken to the University Psychological Department, who worked the research for the Ministry. He also carried out a similar study in 2005 and 2007, of which over 3,000 people were randomly chosen, between the ages of 18 and 170. The answers were received from nearly 1,900 people, 1,000 women, and almost 900 men. It showed that 2.5% of the people back then felt that they had gambling problems, i.e. some 4,000 to 67,000 Icelanders aged 18 in the United States had a serious problem. There was an increase between the two, 2005, and 2007, and it is actually not likely that the figures would have raised it as well as that. A senator has reasoned that playing cards has increased extensively on the Internet. It's a question of how we're going to get our hands on it, but as I say, I don't think that's fair enough because we're going to open the door for this. It is a prominent situation where men play money rather than women while partying is more popular among women. Men also play more in foreign pages than it did not seem in this study there is a difference between men and women on national pages. I think it's really interesting to open up gambling in the light of the problem that many people are dealing with, and we don't have decent resources today for those people, so I think this case is a failure to make the problem bigger. Then again you ask yourself, " What is being offered, and what will we receive in return? ' I think we should do better for the people who are dealing with this problem than look at things for a certain profit. It has been mentioned here that this is good for tourism. But it may also be nice that such things just don't exist in Iceland. It can also be attractive to be different from that of many other communities. We don't have to have everything like the rest, then I'm talking about with the foreign tourists and the conferences and other things. I think we should sell the image we own and be happy about it rather than make something abroad. I feel that if we are considering legal laws, we should first and last be guided by the interests of people who become compulsive gamblers and look at laws and regulations that already apply to the activities that are legal, but we also look at those who are not legal and that we need to reach. I hope we have a chance to do that rather than something else. In 2011, Már VIr Kristinsson introduced the procedures he was doing on behalf of the Ministry, i.e. What to do. It was planning different treatments so that they could be available and visible to addicts. The initiatives also involved active monitoring money corruption and data collection and setting laws or rules that ensured responsible management of national cleaning companies. Then we'll probably come to the Red Cross boxes and other things about corpses, which I don't really like, and I'd rather turn away. But we need to set rules about playing money on the Internet. I think we agree that we need to try to get our hands on what we can do. We also know that we never get around everything, that's just the way it is. But we cannot hide behind the council in that there are so many things on the Internet that we cannot control. We're now trying to control what's called vendettas and a bill was submitted, we've also talked about what snout porn, including in the form of what appears on the Internet. We know that we will never get through all of that, but we can prepare the legal frame so that it will be easier and that vengeance will be punished in some way. There's one way. For example, we need to base these rules on the experience of the Norwegians, Sweden, and find. We would most likely have to be able to limit the network game to the Icelandic company. It would be based on private secrets or something like that. At the same time, we would need to consider the need for caution on the use of mobile phones during telecommunications. As we have seen, young people are most in danger. As in the past, we often need to provide instruction and information to young people and their parents and their guardians. I'm not sure that propaganda campaign is something that needs, I think it needs to come into teaching regularly, like so many other things, maybe into a play of life or conversation, it's like learning about money and could be a part of it, or what do I know. At any rate, I think this is one of the things that need to be discussed, including in connection with the dragnet, of course, because it presents the greatest danger, as we have seen. We need to examine the limitations of age and opening time. We need to try to create some measures to limit the addiction to machines, and we may need to consider other income stocks, whether it is public funds or anything else, especially if we were to close the boxes. I would rather go that way than allow what is presented in this bill in view of what has been observed in the surveys. Of course, we know that most people who play money do it without problems, but I feel that we need to think that in these studies an increase was found between years of age that appeared primarily in the group of young men aged 18◯25 years. My opinion is that we should look ahead to it rather than to tourists or something in an effort to make more money. I don't want any more money from foreign tourists than the Icelanders. I don't think that's a very charming thought. But maybe we are, we sell expensive food and all that. But this is something we need to consider. A respectable president. I'm not going to do this any further, but I felt it was necessary to come up here and express my feelings on this matter. We left the green have spoken against this matter and have presented a number of vital arguments. Hv. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson presented a bill during our last term. He's been the most accomplished man in our line of conversation. I hope he will participate in this discussion. It's always good to get a good edge about such important matters, as discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for her discussion about this matter, about gambling halls. It's remarkable, but almost all the evidence in a talk was given to me. A senator who was very good supports this matter. Hv. A senator compared this matter to another subject that has been discussed at the council, which is often called bubbly. This is exactly where the ATVR is going, i.e. One party is being authorized to go. A monopoly is being taken to keep the monitoring factor clear and simple, and there are no further steps until there is experience. In studies involving the problem of addictive gambling, such isolation has been shown to improve. Above all, it is the goal of these laws to promote the most responsible gambling. Hv. A senator also made it necessary for us to look to Sweden in this regard. That's exactly the way you choose here. In fact, in Sweden the Swedish State itself runs a casino. In Sweden, however, gambling problems are viewed as a public health problem, such as a dog. A senator entered his speech, and a gambler has been a part of socialism since 2003. So there are a number of aspects of their policy and work that hangs with the bill as it is presented here, and that is exactly what was presented in the speech of both. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u69	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. He says my speech supports the case. I started by saying basically, we would not agree because I do not want to allow gambling halls, whether it is a private or a government job. Hv. According to one U.S. senator, research shows that monopoly is an improvement. I don't doubt it, and here's a quote to the ATTVR bill. But we would not allow alcohol today when we know the consequences of its consumption, that is, my opinion, at least not to the same degree as today and with the knowledge we have today. If we were starting at zero point, we wouldn't allow it. I don't think it's necessary to establish this operation, and that's what's important. My argument was primarily in the direction that we can handle the problems we already face because of what has been authorized here and that have been produced by the Internet. I'm totally aware of that. But as with snouters, we can try to cover these matters in a way that is to be done, rather than back it out completely, to open everything wide, and to allow it just because we don't already think we're going to be able to handle these matters as best we can. It just means we have to fix the rule. It is not enough for me that this operation should be under government supervision and that it will be a monopoly, because in my heart and on the ground, I disagree with the rise of a gambling hall in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Because of what? To some extent, a senator stuck to the illustration of burning in a camp, and now history has taught us that this is not enough. It doesn't bring back anything. Then all of this goes under radar, and we have no control over it, and we do not understand the scope at all. However, some good studies have been conducted in Sweden and Denmark. In Denmark gambling clinics are about to be placed under one surveillance authority, in a manner similar to that. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson's son suggested and exclaimed. A senator entered his talk. I think that would improve. Online gambling is the problem today. Sweden has estimated that about 2% of people suffer from compulsive gambling, and that is just right. One senator mentioned that mainly young people are involved and mainly associated with the Internet. I confirm in my speech that the bill suggests that the age limit is 21 years. Of course, many will ask about it and when it comes to it. The committee will explain why the age limit has not been lower. But that is the limit of age Danir started with. It is better to start with rather rigid rules and see what they bring. I think it's always better to start gently, that it's not the solution to open the whole thing wide wide. On the contrary, it is not being suggested in the bill. These matters are being proposed to be created in a legal way that is not present today so that we can maintain surveillance and monitor how these functions work. [[The president calls.]] That is the primary objective of these laws. In the end, I'm going to mention about the conference tour that when we hold conferences, we need to tap the box about what services are available.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u71	Madam President. I'm gonna start where the senator ended. We're gonna have to go boxing. There are these boxes I want to watch. What do we have to offer as a nation? Do we have to invite them to a gambling hall in order to join the conference? I don't think so. It's not my opinion, and I feel that we should reject that idea rather than the other. We are to offer something other than that of others. There may be some. I'm not going to go into some bullshit movie about what it could be. At least I feel that it is important for us to think that there may be something else. I think it's very important that we put a proper law frame around the case, and if it's not enough, which I don't think it is today, considering how this operation thrives here, we need to fix it. But that we have to make a gambling house and a monopoly company so that we can put some sort of legalization around it, I don't feel like it's the right conclusion. But I would be happy to set up a gambling department, or what it would be, to keep track of what we are already dealing with. But first and last, I would take this operation from the market. Hv. A senator speaks of things being subversive. I said if we had that knowledge of alcohol that we have today when it came here to a country like anywhere, when it started brewing and all that, we'd have thought twice about it. That's what I meant. Not that Iceland would shut everything down in view of everything that's happening. But knowing it tells us a lot of things. We can always hide behind the fact that something is going under radar. We're dealing with the tourist service and we're saying it's going under radar. [[The president calls.]] It is not my conclusion that it is enough to say that these functions do otherwise. However, we are to try to control the situation in some way that we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u72	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for her speech. I'd like to pause at the big question in this case, which is how we work against gambling on the Internet. Now I follow this bill and believe that it will improve and help those who certainly have gambling problems. We can find resources for people who are not there today because these activities are below the earth. I'd like to think about this because the senator said that an Internet card could be limited to an Icelandic company. Then I wonder, " How can we limit playing with an Icelandic company if it is not permitted? ' I think, without a lot of thought about it, I only listened to the discussion tonight, that this bill could be the first step in allowing one company, but not opening the system wide open on the port, to have such a card. As a result, we could work with it and develop ways to have comparable companies online, comparable to a house on the Internet, where this house only receives a amount of money. And then how to cope with electronic money that flows in large quantities out of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u73	Madam President. As opposed to the senator, I have a solution to how we can cope with the challenges we face. The presentation of gambling problems in 2012, which I quoted and made by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, was referred to as the key to legalization, which included. would turn to some form of monopoly, should be a public good. That would be a priority subject. It was one of the basics, so they wondered about setting rules that contributed to responsible playing on the Internet. Then, as I came in earlier, I was talking about mapping the card, what it was like, and how it was available. There was also talk of measures to limit the addiction to the boxes and all of them. This was the basis for what came out of this committee's work. That's what they were talking about. If we're going to put a law frame around this, and if we're not going to deny this completely, if we're going to say, "There's something going on, and we're going to try to put our hands on it so we can map it, so that we can see what we're up to -- then, of course, we can only limit it to the domestic market. We cannot cope with the foreign people. Of course, that is not our place. Because you don't have both eyes closed, you know it's there. It was one of these things, developing effective monitoring of the money cards and the general market data collection. There's something that we need to put forward and that we haven't really finished. [[The president calls.]] I'm not an expert on how we can solve this, but these are all ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't think any of us have the answer to that Internet solution, but I still think this is the first step. We're making a frame to get this up to the surface. When it is not on the surface, I think it is very difficult and almost impossible to map the problem and find out how extensive it is. I think it's almost impossible. This bill is about a house or a job that accepts people who want to do this kind of work, whether they do it where it is illegal or online. We have no equipment today to monitor those who are truly in trouble. These are the individuals we need to help. I don't think we'll reach them without such a suggestion or a similar suggestion, although it's just for the information. Then I think it would be possible to build a solution like this to expand what is called a house stand or a tip to what would be an electronic coin or what goes on the Internet between the consumer and the house. That's what's our biggest problem, and I think this bill can lead us to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-09-85.u75	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's meditation. For making a frame to get this on the surface and to evaluate it, and by reaching out to those who are in trouble, I'd like to say that if we're going to drag those who already have problems or are at risk into the playing hall instead of being somewhere else, we're just moving to the problem. I'm not sure we'll map him any further in a certain card palace. I don't think it's an acceptable approach to want to install some device that can get more hooked, because there's usually a clumsiness and other things around it, that there's evidence that we can get to the addicts. You can reach out to addicts by using many methods. We must be able to make use of the experiences of other nations in this regard, as in so many other lands. I look forward to sharing in the discussion of the case on the General Information and Education Committee and getting reviews about it. This is an important subject in a number of articles. It's a thick doll that's worth passing through. I'm gonna listen to both sides. But it doesn't change that in the ground, I don't agree with the bill, thinking that, as I've said before, we have much more to try to reach out to those who already apply it and that the arrangements will cover the operation as they are today.
