ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u1	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the synonym of our members of the United States that the Allied Council assigns to the government's international embargos against the low tax nations. The definition of the synonym is obvious, as the information in the Panama Documents on the extent of the involvement of Iceland's business and possession of national societies in which Iceland is on top of its own. This fact puts us under heavy obligation to be in the lead of winding off the lips of a foreign partner. As a result, there is a great need for us to determine clear international policy and to represent Iceland in the international field as monotonous advocates of opposition to African society and the management of taxes. It is worth remembering in this context that, of course, the scope of the matter is far more than we already have seen. 600 Icelanders are on the list from Mossack Fogseca. There's one of many legal firms in Panama. Similarly, many countries other than Panama's work out to help prevent and hide property so that the total share of this international problem is far away from the obvious and the major resource for Iceland is not clear, although it is as much as it really is. As we have seen in the past few weeks, the possession of an amendee is serious and, as the head of the taxpayer has said, confirmed by the head of a taxation committee, it is generally regarded as responsible for only two reasons for the possession of societies, to hide property and to hide who are, in fact, in fact, to keep property from the natural tax system. According to one estimate, international development in the direction of building sub- and maintaining taxes grew much in the 1970's when a particular reversal in the Western world developed with the fundamental idea that tax recovery was an investment in social value and that paying taxes was not a loss of money but an investment in the structure of the welfare of all of us. Then the dominant ideas that taxes were of evil, the money paid in taxes, became lost money, and so it was important to avoid money from paying taxes as much as possible. It is important to consider that taxation was observed at this time and well into the 1980s considerable in the highest income groups, e.g. in the United States, well over 70% of the highest level until the 1980's. But what happens in those decades is that a competition develops between Western welfare countries in reducing curses to them best because they had run away and brought their possessions into the tax industry. In the 1970's, Monaco was the most popular site in the 1970's, and everyone knows the history of Switzerland and Liechtenstein's history, and then a great deal of competition arose for the states, such as British Virgins, which are based on British legal tradition but can still have their own tax law. This has led to the social damaging effect that pressure has developed among Western welfare communities to reduce the taxation of the best available because of fear of losing it altogether. Then you will find ways to meet them, so that they have what they have as much as possible at home, instead of making taxation fair and based on the basic ideas that the cohesives put at the start of the welfare state, that they should contribute according to material needs. If you see the views that lie behind property in taxes, it is obviously as if it were a name to hide from taxes and avoid their natural taxation. However, it is important to consider, due to the vast number of people we now know to develop a partner through the Bank of Land alone in the years before collapse, that at that time the taxation of companies had been placed here in Iceland that it was with the world's lowest level. We know that it must have been some cost and some of the cost of establishing these associates. It must have led them to think that, in other words, it may not have been the main objective of those who, in this way, formed a foreign society but the second, to hide possession, to prevent otherwise a transparency from being guaranteed in possession. That is another harmful consequence of the tax codes. I've already traced the sides of the tax agreement down to the best of them. But we live in many modern societies that laws contain diverse laws that depend on who can handle any kind of ownership. That's the way it is, for example. the Act on financial enterprises in detailed information and detailed regulations, and in the leading of a collapse, on which to take possession. In fact, in Iceland it was common to see who were behind societies that obviously could not belong to those who were registered to them. However, there are other areas where ownership is limited. Recently, the discussion has been the leading members of the pension fund. Pensions of Pension Funds are for example. among those who are allowed to invest only under strict rules. The head of the financial system, too. Therefore, deportations are so harmful because the transparency we need is destroyed. This may be because humans, whether because they represent financial, modern, or political authorities, are subject to special laws and would also want to avoid informing about their ownership through the registration and other political contributions. That is why this twofold problem is real, one thing is that the assets are being removed from taxation and, on the other, keeping them off the lights of the transparent movements that we have created for the possession of companies. It will be revealed by further reporting what is actually found in these documents on who else has been investing there. You wonder at the obvious danger of inside fraud, i.e. those that, e.g. are aware of some contracts that are involved in financial companies, provide e.g. loans to some projects, as a result, know that some stock will be rising at high prices, subject to the law of investing themselves in the relevant stocks. They have been able to get information from someone else and have made it possible for someone else to be enriched in it. That's one of the things that needs to be researched at all, who's got company and what business was behind and what kind of business was involved with those who could have had inside information that was relevant to the trade at the time they were asked. A respectable president. The movement of European peers has taken initiative in this field for years and is now taking a very close step following the introduction of this information. Thus, the European Commission, the European Commission of the Union, agreed with 12 teams of initiatives aimed at controlling the work of tax seas and hiding them. in particular the development of information exchange agreements between the European Union and all countries who have undergone OECD on the exchange of tax and financial information, and that countries that are not prepared to submit to such agreements and be subject to pressure. It is suggested to oblige financial companies to provide information to the tax authorities on non-EU accounts and to promote transparency and information on enterprises registered outside the European Union but within the territory, e.g. About who are their real owners. It is then assumed in European Parliament that international companies working in the European Union will have to give up all their income for taxes and that they will be strengthened by legal legislation for the assistance of banks and others in tax collections, but as we have seen in the consideration of this land, Icelandic banks were a key factor in supporting this operation and preparing it for collapse. We also saw yesterday's proposals for co-counsels who fall in the same direction. What the Parliament's arrangement and the proposal involve is that Iceland takes international initiative to promote international business pressure against under tax countries. It is obvious to do so with our friends on the scene of EFTA, of course, we are members of OECD, but it's obvious to do so on the scene of EFTA. There are now two countries, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, who have historically had rules of banking different from most Western countries and are important to discuss this at that level for that reason. The same is true in the European Union, where Luxembourg has had easier ways to hide information, which has not been informed about bank information in the same way that other European countries have done in mutual information exchange. The objective must be to take place internationally, that the low tax nations will be clean before their door, deliver all information, accounts and bank information, and that they will be allowed a modest delay in getting their affairs settled. Otherwise, they face economic pressure, even investment pressure, as well as other business pressures. We cannot, in the light of experience today, provide the basis for a Western welfare community to be in the position that much of the nation's resources never come for taxation or provide no guidelines on transparency and proper handling of funds, as we would otherwise be expected in legislation. It must be our basic priority in business with other countries that they respect our fundamental interests, of course, because it is crucial to our ability to maintain the level of well - being that we all want to maintain throughout the Western world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u2	A respectable president. Thank you. The first of Páll the son of Árnason for the proposal and fine speech. What I completely agree on in this is the objective of the operation, which is to prevent secretly from possession of partners in under taxes and to prevent tax collections. I think it's very important that we all work on it, and we all feel that it's a solid agreement at the council. But I have some questions about what can be achieved by the way Iceland takes the initiative in promoting international business pressure on low tax countries, many of which are countries where democracy is neither great nor effective so that those who feel it are perhaps the common people in these countries, often poor people. I'm asking if this is going to do any good, if it can't just do it any harm. Unscrupulous government has so far drawn its legs to exchange information, and every information deal with OECD has long been signed, with 38 novels rising. As it turned out, it's a good thing. I'm sorry, a senator is such as Malta, Cyprus, a state that one would have thought would be well controlled and would be a rod of respect. It's also a problem if you listen to the Committee Justice Network, they've made a list of the world's largest tax bill. There's Switzerland, Hong Kong and America in the top seats. Luxembourg and Germany are also high on the list. Are we not concerned about going through these commercial pressures? I think there's one thing for everyone to walk. What would U.S. counter measures become if they disliked these pressures? Or Hong Kong or other countries we rely on business to deal with? 53% of our country's production is in the form of exports and is based on voluntary transactions. [[The president calls.]] I don't know if this is the best way, but I'll come back to another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u3	A respectable president. The reason for the proposal is the fact that Iceland's reputation has been a major failure. We've been on the front pages of the headlines, and the government leaders have put together with President Assad of Syria and President Pútín of Russia. It's a group film that Iceland has no right to be on. So I believe that the right, normal, and reasonable answer to the Icelandic government is the clear policy of Iceland's leading role in anti-taxing activities. Then we can ask ourselves, " Is my business really useful? ' I think argument is argumentative. A candidate in this subject is a general comment on the value of business banks. I have great faith in business banks and believe that they are a very important part of the international rights system because they are unchanged international law on our only option in the use of weapons. If we are not prepared to use an arm grip and a ball, it is very important that a business request is working and used if a situation is thought to be justified. Hv. A member of the United States is also involved in this matter as well as in Germany and such countries. In individual countries, there has been a tendency to try to make a tax bill at home so as not to lose the money out of the country. Of course, part of this policy is that the countries that ban self-respect to eliminate all comparable solutions at home are, of course, absolutely impossible to get started on this project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u4	A respectable president. In the fine report provided with the Parliamentary resolution proposal, the international cooperation that includes the scene of OECD, Northern and other countries is well reviewed. I agree that Iceland should be in charge of that cooperation and never take long to introduce what is being done there. All I have to doubt is that Iceland should have some special initiative on the business force because I think they're going to take on the wrong people, the poor and the common people in these little jurisdictions that will, in fact, go their own way anyway. There may be a bit of a twin in threatening a small country, but it may not be enough to ride in the United States, which is in Delaware, with laws to attract foreigners. The United States cannot hide its ownership in Delaware, it's foreigners. The United States has been struggling to seek information exchange agreements, allowing them to seek information about their citizens, but they do not want to reveal the foreigners who are part of the Delaware. There's a double standard in the world, and we don't want to play with that. I believe, however, that there is a great opportunity for Iceland to set a good example, to clean up ourselves. Today, there is a shrinking report in a financial and business committee based on indications received by the Commission last week that are no less than 19 things we could add to our legislation to become a model in this regard because Iceland is, in a sense, a tax industry. Iceland is, in a way, a place where you can hide who you really are. We can change the law here and then say: This is how we have done clean in our garden, thus adding our own image, that we are not here to attract money that is looking for shelter or ill money or to participate in some tax contest that has gone beyond all limits. I think that way would be better than me to celebrate the case and the discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u5	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is concerned about every business pressure would suffer. They can also be adjusted to have the desired effect. We see, for example, that much of the commercial pressure of the international community towards Russia has turned to the names of non - Witnesses in the privileged class, who thus meet the standards for those who need to be met. The rest of it. A senator mentions, Delaware, and the American thing about this, is exactly right, and we need to discuss it, of course. Therefore, this proposal is developed as a source for Iceland to participate in international cooperation in this too, so that we can fully sit down with our partners in the European Union and EFTA and discuss this matter with the United States. Not much has been discussed in Iceland. So to say every knowledge company registered in Iceland since collapse has a home arrest in Delaware. We will not discuss this, but because of the weakness of the currency and the problems, people have registered themselves elsewhere, and of course they also have tax returns. We need to discuss this at international level with the United States in what way they will do their part. It's interesting in these Mossack Fosseca documents, and you don't exactly know why it is, that there isn't one American company there, and not one American party in all of the 3 terrestrial data there is. It's just for us to remember that the bigger and more complicated picture in this case may be the picture that we have even imagined.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u6	Madam President. I want to thank you. A candidate for his history in the matter, as well as for an answer. paritaprevir The son of Frosti, the Sigurjónsson of Solomon, of various viewpoints that come to mind when it comes to these matters. I miss not having the highest. The minister of finance and prime minister when we are talking about such big matters and, in fact, completely unprecedented. It will hardly be a pleasure other than that they are at the discussion, especially when representatives of the administrative groups contribute to bringing these matters into a future or taking steps in fulfilling this assignment with responsibility and in order to bring it to justice in Iceland. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. I hear he agrees with me and most of those who have discussed these matters lately that the operation of taxes and low taxes is in itself harmful. A fine bisque, a woman in town, Margrét Kristmannsdóttir's daughter, had a good analogy during the days and spoke of having a good money on taxes would be like buying a bottle of cobbler at a strip club. Then one would ask, "Why did you go to the striped place to buy this bottle of soda? ' By taking part in this, you are naturally allowing the abnormal functions. First of all, I'd like to ask who. A senator, because he has the expectation that we can be on a global lead in handling these matters: how credible is it when we still have two Ministers in the government of Iceland that is found in the Panama Documents? Does it really work? Then I'm talking about both this great suggestion here and the suggestion of the left green we talked about on Friday and, like, work already. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson. Is it going to say that we are going to be in charge of this case while the government itself has not taken over as far as we can see? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. This fine illustration of the bottle and the strip site that she carried from Margrét, the Kristmannsdóttir of Christian. I think she hit a little bit of a nail over there. Regarding whether we can be on the lead, I feel that there is a lack of clear lines on the part of the government. Like I complained at the highest. To be sure, I did not find much encouraging in my present circumstances when I heard the leading of the parish party announce that there was no reason for the head of the Agency to resign. I might have been rather happy if I had been chairman of the forward party that he took this step and thanked him and gave him a compliment. I also think position is the highest. The minister of finance is very strange, and I don't think that people have exactly acted on the part of the government with a clear condemnation of it, and I don't mean that people start describing any criminals who have gone into debinos but simply say: "It's unnatural, dangerous for society and morally obligatory to keep money in the tax industry. Then it creates all kinds of speculation. We've just received information that the largest chicken farmer in the country who enjoys vast economics and huge financial resources of public support in the form of import protection, is a national society. Here is where the interest of several members of a number of council members remains to be supported, enabling these agents to continue enjoying an enormous financial gain from the import ban. I feel that we have to ask ourselves some questions in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u8	President. We are naturally far from emptying this subject, and we are here to discuss it even more, and most important, because the limits of the government classes are in strange places, and in fact, at all places other than the financial ministers of the European Union and the rest of the countries around us who are also dealing with the consequences of the Panama documents, but not as much as we are in Iceland. That's why I think there's every reason to worry. The other is the second thing that was shown in the opposite direction. paritaprevir The son of Frosti, son of Sigurjónsson, is that in a sense it is double - skind. Then I'm not talking about a suggestion. A senator thinks so, and now I'm not making his word to mine, but much rather to say this, that here we actually look at the product of the novelisticism, we look at the product of capitalism and profitism, and that taxes in themselves are the tools of evil, as it were, that, in some sense, it is normal to avoid paying the tax industry, to be the way of bisques and rich people to avoid taxes in their homes, and even because they are too high. It has even been said in the words of some of them. Congress officials believe that the way to fight taxes is primarily to reduce taxes in Iceland. That's exactly what I'm talking about. There are very deep political roots that I think are important to us. What is the opposition to the OECD or the European Union or to any of the other parties here on machines when the people are also driven by the same commercialism, so I'll make it even more complex? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u9	A respectable president. First of all, about the evidence we hear, that this information should require that we reduce taxes in Iceland. As you look at the time when people took all that money into a community, corporate taxes were here with the world's lowest level, at least in the Western world, and then you can think of a god Snorri Snor: What was it then that God was angry when we were running lava? What high taxes caused the total flood of demurrection just before the collapse if the solution now is reducing taxes to prevent it? On the contrary, there are two things. One is to conceal possession, and it must not be forgotten, the importance of avoiding transparency rules and requirements and other factors that depend on the fact that everything is an informed possession. The other thing is, you're right. One senator says that there was a point in the Western world of separation between the physical economy and the ideologies. It can be called profitism, new-freeness, I'd like to say that it was emphasised on the economic situation, and it didn't matter how profit came about. It wasn't important that he created jobs, that he created valuables, that it was not important for him to provide some social advantage; it was all right to pack something that was possible to enrich humans on the market, and even so that no real value would change their hands. This capitalism has certainly gone to a wall. It has brought disaster. He has increased inequities, and he has sucked valuables out of a professional way of life. Part of the work done with this past is to admit that paying taxes is important, that taxes are desirable, and that it is normal to have a share. [[The president calls.]] I think there's something missing in the debate of government leaders right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u10	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a proposal for a resolution on international financial pressure against low taxes. I come most of the time up here to express support for the objective of these measures, which, of course, are ways to prevent secretly the possession of partners in under tax nations and prevent tax collections. All of us can agree that these goals are important and good. Iceland is to be at the top of a country's battle against the business of taxes, especially in the face of Iceland's strong and extensive history in Mossack Fosseca data. The secrets of a tax host offering companies have been misused in many ways to avoid taxes, to avoid financial policy on fictitious policy, to fake financial funds, and to hide unscheduled funds. International companies have used the tax industry to bring profits from the countries where the real business takes place, and the real wealth and profit will be created, and they will be transferred to tax shelters where taxes are lower in order to avoid paying taxes to society. The exception of taxes undermined the well - being of society. Therefore, it is always, and should be, the objective of the government to fight such activity. The task is complicated because the tax industry is independent of jurisdiction. OECD has set up 28 countries that have failed to meet agreements and agreements for information exchange of enterprises which are run in these jurisdictions. While there are some such countries that do not fulfill these laws, money can be placed under cover and hidden from the tax authorities. This proposal suggests that Iceland will become the target of international economic pressure against the low taxes, that it is better than taking arms against them. I can accept that. An authority expressed that it was better than using weapons, and I agree with that. But I don't agree that this is something Iceland should do. Iceland is one of the countries that are dependent on international exchanges by all the countries you visit. Iceland is a small, open economy, and we are very, very, very ill for it if anyone would decide to use our commercial pressure. We need to find other tools and more trustworthy ones in order to get others to follow our advice. I think it's by far the best thing to do in setting good example and persuasion; try to set a good example and participate in international cooperation, be a part of it, and be a member of the company. But to promote international business pressure, I don't think that's to be credible, especially when these tax novels are America, Germany, Hong Kong -- that is, where the big money is washed according to information provided by Taxes Justice Network. And I'm not sure that that's the way to discipline them for obedience, that Iceland may not do business with them; I think they're just laughing at it. Many positive points are made in this proposal and the report with it. These include all the international cooperation that Iceland has had to do with. I know it's a great opportunity for us to be there as long as we can. If our aim is to improve the image of our country, we must do credible things, things that actually work. We need to make sure that we ourselves are not a tax dress, that Iceland is not a place where money can be hidden from real property. Unfortunately, it is possible today. Iceland is a tax host in a number of ways. For foreigners and for industry that have agreed here not to pay taxes. We have no special requirement in our partnerships that a real owner be registered to his peers. I think it's very important that we improve it. It's easy to start a business here and its owner as another society, and so on. One of the things the F.O.P.P. went to, when the council came back, was to offer representatives from the tax authorities, from the head of the tax, from the head of the state tax, from the Federal Bank, from the SEC, and from the council. We received memos from these sources to help us identify ways that could help us with the work of taxes and their abuse here in Iceland. There are quite an amazing number of things we could do ourselves. Doing so is a great work for us to do and to set a good example. I think that is the very best way to improve the nation's image in a foreign field. It seems to me that much of what other nations are doing is a bit of a trepider. It's very showy to have initiatives under attack on small jurisdictions in the South Seas, but at the same time, it's time to put up a shelter over a stock company and provide a variety of fish and Trixes for companies to pay little taxes. I think Iceland is in position, with the prosperity in this country, to deny the money that would come this way, to be attracted to a particularly low tax environment. We're just supposed to put it all together, all the companies here are supposed to pay their taxes to the community. In this way they will be lowly and reasonable. This way they do not sludge the image. For example, I do not approve of having foreign experts offered better terms than Icelandic specialists, but for the council, the bill is that they should pay 25% less taxes because they have a different nationality or that they have grown up elsewhere or that they are to be educated elsewhere. I don't think that's a good thing. We've got film companies coming from abroad and getting tax-free here. There are questions about that--are not most of our cargo ships registered in jurisdiction on some Virgin Islands somewhere? Let's just make it real. Let's not have a show. Let's just do this for real, so everybody pays taxes that are involved in enjoying their infrastructure and the share they have here, whether it's company, individuals, and whether they're foreign or domestic. That's my main point. But, of course, I welcome this discussion. I rejoice in the spirit of this proposal to counteract the operation of tax schemes. But I don't agree that Iceland should have a preemptive to use commercial pressure because we ourselves are much more sensitive to commercial pressure than, for example, Americans, so that you can take them as an example. Not everyone who realizes that only 12% of the U.S. national income comes through foreign business but 53% in Iceland. If those two nations went into some kind of business war, we're the losers. It's totally predictable. We should never use a weapon that we lose to use. We should use persuasion and good examples. That's the weapon we can use. That's what I wanted to come on in this discussion, but I've had it for as long as I can.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u11	Madam President. This talk by the head of the Economic and Business Committee did not increase my confidence in the work they provide at the head of the Committee where we should present ideas about how to deal with the problems that obviously come up and become informed by the publication of the Panama Documents. Hv. A senator here speaks like Iceland, and Germany is a tax control and a tax fraud on a couple of British Virgins. What cannot be understood. A senator in a way that differs from theirs. He says we should rather grow the park at home and keep Iceland from being used as a tax place. He said, which must be right over him, he has considered this far better than I, that there could be any kind of rifle here, at least to hide property. I don't know if he meant it, too, to avoid paying taxes. The examples are for the rest of your life. A senator named normally is quite different in Iceland, the examples he mentioned earlier, than those we've been discussing. For example, he mentioned how an aluminium company avoids paying taxes. But it's the damn thing, if you'll excuse Mr. President, that I made it happen, at least, so it's all in Icelandic law. It's open. People know about it. Here's suggestions have been made for years at the council to change the law to stop them. What we're talking about here in Panama documents is just what I call conscious and organized a smell of crime. It's nothing else when it's become a major industry to create a company like the one that was traced through Mossack Fogsecca, where men are directly there, sometimes with poorly got money. We also know that it is used by international crime circles. [[The president calls.]] But that's not in Iceland. In other words, I don't think we should kill the debate in a way that's gonna happen. A senator was doing. [[The president calls.]] The problem is quite different from the situation in Germany or Iceland. Let's put things in perspective.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u12	A respectable president. It is my goal, not to kill the debate, not at all, but primarily to try to shed light on the reality. I know why. A senator may not realize that in the Netherlands he can start a business and that company can lend his company, which is highly profited, money at somewhat high interest, or just a lot more money than the company needs. Plus, interest rates are paid out to the Netherlands, the Dutch company, and it's under certain laws and it doesn't have to pay any taxes on the interest there, they're tax subsidies here. Then there's another company in Delaware that has to do with this Dutch company and has lent the money. After a few of these things, where all the great jurisdictions are about to turn the money away from taxes. That's not good. We must face the problem. I'm saying, before we start pointing others out and telling them to turn them down, we should make some adjustments. We should be absolutely clean, requiring that those who have shares in the Icelandic enterprise, the dominant part, simply do not have the rights given to such shares unless they tell us who they are. Then they can't have any owners on the African islands who actually own these letters and take those things away. Then others can just follow our good example. It was certainly not my purpose to point out this to minimize the problems of those African islands in the South Seas, British Virgins, and others. There is a truly high corruption of grassers, and a kind of criminal activity is rightly put on the table. They've gotten their feet into sharing in information agreements because they're actually living on this, making money from this, helping people hide money. We can legalize it that the Icelandic people just don't help in starting a business there. That's one of the things I'm suggesting here. It is up to us to decide. This is the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u13	Madam President. I feel much better about it right now. A senator who, in spite of everything he wants to do to root out this problem. In case of a moment. A senator would not have said in his speech earlier that he had 19 motions, then I would have allowed myself to insist that his speech was trying to sweep this discussion under the carpet. But it's not, I'm making it perfectly clear. Again, I reiterate that there is a big difference between almost organized operation to help villains avoid paying taxes on the one hand and some legal angles we know of and have not been hiding. In fact, they made it a conscious effort to attract the foreign - language capitals of some 30 in the past 40 years ago. But that's another story. The reason why they should wake up. A senator against this is ideological. It has often been observed in discussions about other aspects of foreign affairs that he is opposed to using international financial pressure, mainly because Iceland is so little, says so. A senator, or I have understood him that way during discussions in a committee we're both on, and where it's so easy to make protests against Iceland. Then I'll tell you what. That's what a senator's supposed to be. paritaprevir In his background, Páll Árnason proposed that Iceland take the initiative within the alliances we are involved in, that the organization adopts this as its own policy. He specifically mentioned EFTA. I am now going to see countries such as Germany, Hong Kong, I do not speak of the United States, resist the fact that an internationally respected organization with a much longer story than even the European Union would have avoided using anti-aggressive laws against countries that help tax booths in these areas. Counts 'em out. A senator really wanted to get on such a list, or the United States? No. All of this plays a major role in increasing the pressure against this kind of activity. [[The president calls.]] That's why I object to this ideological reason. Senator. [[The president calls.]] I think he's wrong in this matter, but maybe he's right in most other things. But for that I dare say for a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u14	A respectable president. I'm not going to quote a discussion on the National Affairs Committee, which is naturally loyal - no one mentioned by name. [[For example, consider: No one mentioned by name.]] I haven't kept my opinion to myself that I always think that the presence of the council needs me when Iceland decides to participate in any form of commercial pressure. In spite of all the arrival of the council, we insist on making free trade agreements with other nations, that's a good thing. Why, though, do we not demand to do the same, and why is it not so in our style when we are going to use business pressure against other countries? Which can have tremendous consequences for Iceland, for various provinces and businesses that are completely innocent innocent innocent abroad, we lay the burden on that business with our foreign policy that can be aggressive, can be interwoven with other nations, can still be counterwarrants that are extremely destructive - I feel that it should always be discussed at the council, this high Council, and that we will make this decision together. Besides, we should stand by those who land in this country, whether business or province, that they do not have one harm to our foreign policy. We do it together or we don't. That's my point. That's always been my point. There are various ways to persuade nations when they refuse to do something. They're trying to convince them well, and they're setting a good example, and then we're just gonna have to admit that I think business pressure is usually taken and usually on the wrong people. It's not those tall gentlemen and these dictators, they're not gonna be moved by any business pressure. I've felt this way, and I'm still hers, and that's why, like a boy. A senator points out, trying to warn us that we have some initiative to lead some sort of organization in going into business pressure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. He was perturbing. Hv. A senator went through a little bit of the answers I wanted to get from him in his answers to questions. paritaprevir I'm sorry about Össur's Skarphéðinsson, but I'd like to hear more about how it is. A senator envisions that there are ways to cope with this problem other than commercial pressure. I tend to worry a lot. A senator, especially to them, would suffer upon unscrupulous, poor people who had nothing to do with this. That's what worries me. While there is always something to keep in mind, there is a need to do something. I wondered what the attitude was. A senator is an idea, such as the refusal to accept demands that come from some particular state. Also, I would like to hear more about what has happened. A senator would define these sites in a different way because they are likely to have conflicting problems with them. I like to think very well from what happened. Senator, answer to information. This is probably how you can define a region, but not necessarily all of it, I suppose. I'm interested in hearing what's wrong. A senator has a list of how these areas can be grouped in such a way that there may be a number of ways to deal with conflicting states. I'd like to hear from you too. A senator's opinion is that a legal institution should be opened and traced. That's what I heard. In his reply to another inquiry, if I correctly understood it, a senator would feel that it was appropriate for him to do so in the majority interest, i.e. member of a community. That's one of the points I would be very interested in hearing more about from time to time. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions. I've just wondered, like him, which ways are really good and can actually produce results, what we can do, what we can't, what we should do first and what's most important. In addition, I have been studying what is being written abroad, as well as why. A senator must have done his own work. For example, there is much to learn about this on OECD websites and then on sites such as Taxes Justice Network, which are the grass - based organizations of those who really want to handle the situation. This organization, Rott Justice Network, the tax justice organization, has made a list of the world's largest tax cover and set them up on a scale not only by secrecy but also by multiplying the amount that goes through these areas. The attention then leaves the small island of the land that may not be the big sinners. The big swimpers are Hong Kong, America, Luxembourg, and this is the firms that honor the country. I think we need to realize that tax dumps are a huge problem. We will not solve it alone, Icelanders. We can choose to establish and apply certain rules, that our citizens and our companies follow a set of moral standards and regulations. We can totally put that in the law. I think it's important that when we find that society demands that the lawgiver intervene in us, establish our own rules, it is our job at the council to find a way to do that. The tips we have received from Icelandic experts on the issues that are very interesting to the tax authorities, and I look forward to a further study of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Then I'd like to ask. A senator whether these major members, Hong Kong, the United States, and Luxembourg, are larger in the sense that they have more activity. Or are the rules worse or somehow harder to deal with these countries? I especially ask because I wondered if we would not take different paths against different areas. Also, I wondered about a previous question, which I understand well at the moment. A senator did not have time to answer, whether in the case of open and traceable ownership of an attorney. A senator thinks that if we take up a particular radical policy here, or I assume it's radical, since the law simply had to separate from property, it might have a negative impact on us. I especially ask because of what. A senator rightly mentioned that we should be exemplary. Are there any of these threats to being so exemplary that they simply scare off business? Probably there is some sort of balance there, depending on the methods used, but firms should not have much difficulty in revealing their ownership. I don't know why people should be shy about it, but this is a world where people are often hiding things that you don't understand why they should hide if they have absolutely legitimate purposes. I ask, then, if there is any prerogative to the possession of an attorney is open and traceable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u18	A respectable president. That's a very good question. A senator, what are the threats and opportunities to demand that shareholders, say only those with more than 20%, something like that, in part society, are known entirely to the individual. I would think that this could be the threat that those who have poor money and want to conceal themselves will go somewhere else. But there might also be a strength if Iceland did a good job and we were to become an example in this, to have a good example in this business. Then it could possibly attract back the money that wants to be in the right place. For example, the Norwegian oil reserve has set a strong policy in investing according to moral values. One of the values in the moral sense might be to direct one's investments to a law that truly follows the rules and set a good example. Everything comes with an opportunity. We just have to choose our associations. I myself share a shareholder in many of the comrades. I don't think there's any secret to that. Everybody knows what part of me has money, and it's okay. I'd like to see no secrets around it. I've always found it very strange to hide. Partially controlled stocks are the legal bodies in themselves who have tax laws against the government. There are certain rights to run such a business with limited responsibilities and it is important to build the economy, but I don't think it is necessary to see that it should be kept anonymous. In terms of social security travel and other factors, I think it's very good that everything is on the table, that those who get the right to have their own business in such communities with limited responsibilities at least reveal themselves. In fact, I feel that this is a proper section file and shareholder file, that it is a public and accessible database, so those who do business with these communities can understand who are behind the company and can affect the trust enjoyed by the Society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u19	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion and for the suggestion. Of course, the goal is good and important, and it is to fight against tax fraud and secret thinking that affects those who pay their taxes, to prevent taxes. That is an important goal, an essential goal. I must say, though, that especially after a talk. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson, and for her, I doubt that this particular proposal will come only upon the guilty. On the contrary, I am referring, not to people who have possessions in these countries, but to people who do not possess possessions in those countries. Hv. paritaprevir In the early years, Páll Árnason went on to say that if we are not prepared to use weapons, we need to have some other means, such as financial pressure. You're absolutely right. But there is another question that we need to keep in mind, and that is that our actions do not affect innocent people. I remember this discussion when, more than a decade ago, people wanted to invade Afghanistan and shortly thereafter, Iraq. It was always left to war opposers as if they were some special friends of Saddamur Husseinn or Osama Bin Ladens, a load of nonsense. But in that discussion, the purpose did not sanctify the occasion. When we react with intense anger, it is important that our response and action be justifiable toward those affected. Not sure. It's not going to happen automatically. It needs to be checked, to think things through, and at what steps it takes. The first time I saw that suggestion, I liked it. As far as I can see, she's in the more radical side. Similarly, it does not concern that Iceland has its own unique way of describing the forcedness of commerce here and there but, of course, exerting itself on a global level, which is the only way to do this, I think, and obviously, according to the movers and the finer alike. Congressmen who spoke before me. But then I wondered, " What can I do? ' If I understand correctly, countries have now been defined in different fragility categories. Of course, it is necessary to accurately define what we expect from other countries regarding tax information. I think a good word is good. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson sometimes uses an information drive. Of course, the main problem is that the information required to assess the tax burden is not available. This, in effect, is the root cause of the problem. Telling others how they should behave their information is not something we do on our own. It must be commercial pressure, not necessarily threats, but economic pressures. I also wondered, " What goal is it possible to use simply a moral standard when it comes to commercial enterprises in general? ' It is sometimes said that a company has only two emotions, a profit, and a loss. However, sometimes this profits and losses are tied to the way people experience a particular company, and they can possibly, without my research on it, the values and values of which a company decides on its own to cultivate and shrimp, affect the behavior of an enterprise. For example, if an enterprise takes the moral stand of using only renewable energy or something similar. It can affect their business, and then hopefully and hopefully in a positive way. It is quite optimistic, however, to expect such processes to work on their own. In order to really influence the big party that matters, rules need something to be done. I simply assume that companies and comparable organizations are not emotional in the same sense as humans and even animals. So I don't think it's obvious what to do. But I don't think in the context of that, either, that it's not obvious that it's the right way. I'd like to take a closer look at it and look forward specifically to seeing what comes from reviews when it comes from a review process, whatever people who know well about it may be able to help the high Council in that regard. And also how the discussion will look during the second discussion, which I expect to be as interesting as this. You can't really discuss this without just going to the top. Financial and economic Ministers and False & Co, a company that he had at some point and is no longer operating, and it's all very well with. What is difficult about this discussion and what has recently happened is that it is a matter of credibility. It is there even if you give everyone in the discussion all the chance in the world, even if you let anyone have any doubt. However, there is a credible problem because if the highest level is present. The financial and economic secretary steps in a pit and tells us that he is opposed to this suggestion, and whether you like it or not, you have to take into account how he himself has talked about his business since 2006 or what it was. There's a problem. It often seems to me that this is not a question of whether a person has done something right or wrong. Rather, it seems that the reasons behind what he has formed are really issues. There is something we must always ask ourselves about politics. It will be more difficult under these circumstances. I'd like to thank you, though. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson the son of Siglejo, especially for his participation in the discussion. I always find it interesting to hear what you're talking about. A senator will tell you, even when I disagree with him. During the short time I've had, I can't help but mention one thing I heard on the radio this morning and I feel that the problem that we all need is to try to fight. On the radio, there was a man I understand that was a participator who reportedly went to Germany and met a woman from the United States who asked where he was from. He said he was from, in English, with the permission of the president, the country of the industry, or the land of corruption. And that American woman in Germany just guessed Iceland. There are these stories that make you feel kind of bad about the situation we're in. That's what we need to fix. I believe we will only do so by being outstanding in the seminary. It's a long time, I think. But I'm sure we can if we're going to, but then we have to think about it too. To fight corruption, we need to do more than do other nations. We need to be more transparent than other nations because we are so few, and we have a short modern economic history. In my opinion, we are very wet behind our ears when it comes to financial and financial matters. In my opinion, this means we have to do better. We simply cannot accept the fact that we are fulfilling the other rules and regulations made by other nations, we need to be outstanding, and we need to be outstanding. I'm afraid I think it's a long way into it, but I also think it's possible if we decide to be. I don't think that's just realistic for a long time, I think that's necessary for a long time. Just a minute in the last second, I'd like to mention the 10th step of Pirata's economic policy, which we've only talked about, OK? paritaprevir Frosti, Sigurjónsson, as well as the one standing here, is that the property of lawmakers should be opened and traced. Sometimes this idea is proposed to be the dominant or fixed percentage, to say 20% possession, or something like it. But I still don't quite understand why such limitations should exist. Why not just have it open and traceable? I just can't figure it out. When it comes to these matters, I think there might be a way to be outstanding, maybe not in all nations, I don't know what it's like in all other nations, but I think there's at least a chance there to do better than other nations. Unfortunately, I don't have any more time to discuss this, but I hope the discussion continues and looks forward to seeing what the reviews say.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u20	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said that in order for Icelanders to shake off the dirty word, we would have to be excellent. He said we had to go beyond others. Is it to be outstanding to resort or take initiative in the business affairs of those who may be grudging in the business affairs of the tax department? No. Not according to what it is. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son. I was surprised at his attitude. But I also think it's a misunderstanding. Hv. A senator agrees. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejosson, who writes: "We need to see where business pressure is most severe, and we have to conclude that there may be poor people in the countries affected by pressure. Then there are the following: There are many means of forcedness. The security Council, which is the only organization in the world that can bind all the kingdoms of the world, has many resources. For example, they focus on the markets, on services, on public business. They can be directed against entire nations, against one company, or against an individual who has been found to have done badly or beyond the normal limit. Hv. A senator must not buy arguments. paritaprevir Frosti, son of Sigurjónsson, completely raw. He has to examine them with Greek eyes. Forces that have an impact on a small group of people or companies can be taken into consideration without any influence on the survival of the wide number of people in that country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u21	A respectable president. Hv. There is no need for a senator to worry about my insensitiveness to reason. When possible, I listen to reasons and other viewpoints. There is no contradiction in going beyond others, but there is no total ban on business. Similarly, I realize that there are different ways in which business bans can be implemented. But it is important to keep this in mind: When negative things happen in life and economic conditions, it is important to respond with a measure of calmness, even if you are angry and if you have a good and right cause. This is vital if you are going to follow methods that directly violate the interests of others who may be whole - state, you are faced with problems and are sure of what you are doing. I don't think it's clear at this point. This will be clarified during the treatment of the council. I look forward to that discussion, and as I spoke in my talk, I look forward to seeing what comes from the reviews. It will likely have something to do with such problems that might arise. Of course, we will take it into consideration and try to do it in the best way we can. I'm sure that's for me. I don't have to wonder if I'm going to listen to evidence or accept some new data. It's just a part of what I think is a normal procedure, not just in Congress, but in general. But I can have it in mind that there are many pressures. I can have in mind that they can be directed against one company or another. In fact, I had it in my fingernails that there may be a way of managing business so that they could get the most out of those who govern the community, upper class in that community, or something. It's all in meditation, since we're here at first. in a case that has not yet been reached. I allow myself to think and to review any position I have, such as on this matter. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator does not have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u22	Mr. President. Of course, I have an interest in this case, because I am one of the officials of this case. I can't cover it. I just thought it over. A senator seemed to take such an unscrupulous stand that was not in favor of this matter on a peculiarly objective basis. The perplexing basis was that business pressure could lead to the mismanagement of the number of people, not related to the alleged crime. That's a legitimate argument. Senator. That is the most widely used argument against international business banks. At the time, the severity of the matter was considered so high in South Africa that he took over the interests of the volleyball crowd, which certainly also brought the consequences of the embargos, which eventually result from divorce. In case of a moment. A senator would have listened to a talk. paritaprevir Páll's great - year son of Árnason was carefully outlined in his background that this was, for example, a case where pressure could be applied against individuals, against companies. I am precisely the opinion that this is the exact case of this kind that could be applied to this more specific pressure that we have seen to be taken on in increasing numbers in recent years to find positive conclusions that would benefit all; in this case, it would be possible in itself to apply the traveling forces that are often very strong against certain individuals who present a state that encourages, such as this case, taxable crime, or to the individual companies or just those in the company. I think this case is so growing that bad people could be hit by a small group without a major impact on a wide range of people, but still, it would have a major impact on those who suffer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u23	A respectable president. I'm not so sure it's so far between us. A senator in this matter. This is something we all need to be aware of. This needs to be examined and always needs to be examined when using these techniques, no matter how effective they have been before. War has often worked. Business pressures have often worked, but that doesn't mean you don't have to think about these things before, because I know why. A senator wasn't speaking against what I said. Then I assume that there may be a change in the proposal to treat the council so that it is quite clear to do so in a way that will not be the case, but at all times it will be a concern for the interests of innocent people. I think it's quite normal to take it along during the discussion. But as I say, this must become more evident in the treatment of the council. At this point, I'm worried about this, and I think it's important that we talk about it. I think it's important that we talk it out loud, and I think it's important that we share some of our arguments in this relationship. There is no need to be deeply concerned about the position of the one present at this point because this view is completely contrary to the information being received and the fine reasoning that many of the especially respectable members of Parliament can apply here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u24	A respectable president. I'm here in the public assembly to discuss a plagion proposal for international commerce against low taxes, which is proposed by members of the United Nations. On Friday, another body of Congress proposals of similar injury were presented for an investigation of debinos and tax heaps, where left greens took the lead. I just want to say that even though I don't necessarily agree with everything that is presented here, I think it's very respectable that men are offering these suggestions to deal with the big problem that we face that is the secret and tax collection and, in fact, the worm pit that has been opened after the media called Panama documents. I think that it has to say, as it is, that while people may have been suspicious of this, it has also been observed many times in terms of the tax issues both here and abroad, and in discussions with the officials and agencies who are managing these matters, that many things were wrong. But I don't think anyone ever dreamed it was so much that it really was. It has now been found that more data will be published and more information will appear, and this will only focus on a certain legal office in a certain country. So I'm asking, "What else is it that's not here yet, but hopefully one day we'll come out?" But there is no guarantee. That is why I support the thinking that I feel in this huge controversial motion that we Icelanders, despite our being a small nation, should take the initiative and that we should be helped by other countries in this huge matter so that they will be united in the international battles that must be carried out against what is really impossible to call just what is really happening. It seems to me that it will take years or decades to find out what's really going on here, and it won't help to get started right away. I know that Iceland has been called for ideas from both the government tax manager and the tax investigator. The Ministry of Economics started immediately after these issues came to the fore. In fact, there have been many very good ideas that I have not yet received but that will introduce myself to the government to see how we are involved in these matters. We'll never be a good society. We'll never be a happy nation if we don't find out what's going to happen and we'll get rid of it. So I'd like to pick up somebody else's words and remember. paritaprevir Hrafn Gunnarsson's shrine says it was like in astronomy, it's really like a black hole in which no light can come in and no light comes out. As a result, it is something that is not inaccessible, neither regarding information, money, nor anything else. There, the nations must stand together so that these gates can be opened so tightly. A party like mine emphasizes that we pay less taxes rather than more because we want individuals to enjoy the fruits of their work, but this does not go to the State. Of course, all of this has to be done in good mixtures, but tax conditions are some of the worst enemy party that has it on its policy list because tax panels make it necessary to pay much more than that. Of course, this also depends on the competitiveness of the enterprises that are in line with those who do not. Everything supports that we stand together, as I think we're doing here at the Generals, lifting the veil of this case and opening up into this big, ugly black hole I think the tax snow is. Then I'm talking about a tax field where people hide and store their money instead of giving them up to the government's rights and avoiding being under the burden of the community contract we've made here in the country, says we're going to share, according to specific guidelines, in order to run hospitals, schools, road systems, etc. In all major and complex matters, it is very important to have ideas, and people wonder how best to deal with problems. These two council proposals are certainly an attempt to do so. It will be very interesting to hear it when it is sent out to anyone who is concerned or has something to say about it. I declared on Friday that I specifically believe the latter part of the synopsis proposal made left green for an investigational group something we should look at. I find it very exciting that Iceland will take the initiative to talk to other countries and speak for international financial pressure. I think it's a way that could work out. Of course, I'd like to put in advance, as I said on Friday, about support for each component, but I would like to thank you primarily for the fact that these ideas are presented in the conference and that this matter is being addressed at the General Assembly as is also being carried out in many parts of society. The organisations are sending officials to a meeting at OECD State, the G20 countries have met at an emergency meeting after these documents were released, etc. Clearly, there is a great international movement because of these informants. Then we must not forget who was the source of this information, but it is just the media that is very grateful for it. But the media must be like all other institutions, of course, to follow all the rules and laws that apply to them very carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u25	V.E.G. President. We will now discuss a proposal for a resolution of international embargos against the low tax nations proposed by the United Nations Parliament. In fact, this is the second matter of Congress, which will be discussed in the General Assembly following a news broadcast of Iceland's vast wealth of possessions on partners in low taxes. For one thing, it was found that not only do many Icelandic companies own in low taxes but they also have ministers in the government of Iceland. It's quite remarkable, I'd like to say, that the initiative of two groups at the council's stand, on the one hand, by the Council of the United States here today, and then by proposal for a judicial hearing on the investigation of Iceland's Off-Environcies and tax belows, which was submitted by our council in our left movement, the past Friday afternoon, are being attempted to cross these cases and present with direct action due to the association of Iceland's Off-countries. I'd like to say, though, that I think it's very positive. The Economic and Business Committee, with what? paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejarsson in charge of these matters is taking a close look at these matters and has made good visitors and will continue to examine them. I think it's a good price, and I'll lean on it. A panel on their jobs. But my opinion is that it is of utmost importance that the Allied Council of Iceland handles these matters with a proposal, because it became an enormous trust between the nation and its rulers with the updrafts made on the television show a few weeks ago that covered Iceland's ties with societies. I would've wanted to see the highest. As the government steps forward and takes more initiative when it comes to investigating these matters, it is boring that both at the last Friday session as well as at today's discussion will not be the highest. Prime Minister present or highest. Secretary of finance. I would have thought that it gave more weight to the discussion that they had been here and shared in the discussion, but I rejoice greatly at various episodes. The members of the board of directors here during the council have participated in the discussion. I think it's important because we need to have that conversation. I believe that the proposal made by the United States Congress is now a major factor in making up and examining these issues. The report says that the proposal is the highest. Governments committed to promoting international business pressure against under taxes in order to support transport of capitals to that point, as it may be difficult to obtain information from such countries and to provide tax laws in a natural way. It also suggested that since the information began coming out of the Panama Documents, there was a loud demand that taxes be met and that international measures were declared. I think it's very important that Iceland participates in such activities and contributes. The report does a fine job of doing what has been done, including the following: At OECD scene, and review the former CC rules. They go through taxation due to possession legislation in low taxes or areas considered to be low taxes, that the stated income tax from social, fund or organisation is less than 2/3 parts of the income tax that would have been paid at the company's profit would have been an unlimited tax in the state of which he is from or is in. That's the definition of low taxes. A list of these countries has been issued. This refers to countries or regions that have not concluded legal arrangements in many of the countries of low taxes, where it is not mandatory to register information on annual accounts. An tax investigator has therefore noted that there is no way to verify whether such partners are paying taxes properly. This is part of what this synopsis is commissioned to handle, i.e. It is possible to use commercial pressure that is not ready to make such agreements. I agree fully with that, and I think it is important to do so. However, I would like to maintain the viewpoint that has only been discussed here today, i.e. that some under tax nations are poor Third World countries, though not all of them. I think it's important that if there's any form of criminal action on one of the less tax countries, it should apply to all countries. I must say, that made me very happy, for it was very clear. paritaprevir The Árni Páll the son of Árnason, the first member of the council arrangement, was also repeatedly opposed. Skarphéðinsson Here, there are many kinds of forcedness, and it is possible to treat the poor people in these lands, not to be affected. Rather, it is possible to direct them specifically to certain groups. I think it's very important that we have been here today. In fact, it makes me even more supportive of this body of Congress because I think it's important that we go to a study of Iceland's continents and tax subsidies at home and assume that it is possible to do so. [[The president calls.]] Also, we need to take action in a foreign field. [[The president calls.]] I believe that this is of great importance in the discussion that we will not take the simple course and take action against the poor kingdoms; rather, we will consider the interests of the common people in those countries along the way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u26	President's insistence on what? Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u27	Mr. President. I would like to represent members of the United Nations who represent this matter of Congress thanks to the fine generals who have participated in the discussion and, in one way or another, expressed support for the matter. The proposal suggests that Iceland takes initiative in setting up an appropriate organisation or taking the initiative to apply the countries of commerce that can be classified as low tax countries or countries that have made it directly a concern for industry within their union to facilitate tax reforms or to bribe taxes from taxes. Especially has this point been the subject of the discussion, which has been Greek in its chapters. The understanding as the last speaker, w. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, in this case, is absolutely correct. We must not fall into the danger of excluding commercial pressure on the grounds that it can lead to the widespread number of countries that are already affected and may be vulnerable to the greatest price on them. You must recognize that there are many resources. I specifically mention, Mr. President, that in recent years we have seen, for example, in connection with the Ukraine issue, a new kind of business pressure moving to the front lines. We have seen that there are pressures directed toward special individuals, and they have been two kinds. First, they have focused on limiting their freedom of movement. Appropriate individuals who have been fully aware of the expected criminal activity at international level have been prevented from traveling to certain countries. Similarly, the same individuals have been prevented from doing business, especially in financial matters, in certain lands. These are the actions that I believe were most impressed with the dispute. The tools that the international community has to choose are the source of the United Nations Security Council. Let us not forget that the main instrument of the United Nations organization is the Security Council. It is the organization that the United Nations organization in Article 1. Their covenants are to protect international rights, national rights, and individuals as well as the decisions made by the organization. To enable the Safety Council to enable commitments and decisions made in the United Nations, the Safety Council has been given authority. It is, in effect, exaggerating in power from the nations that are part of the United Nations, and often it is much and much. This includes that if a decision is made by the Council of Safety, it means that all 193 Member States are bound to follow up on it. For example, the measures taken by the Council of Safety include restrictions on travel freedom, broad forms of commercial pressure, but there are also pressures that take place in a given area. These measures can focus on entire nations, on enterprises, corporate corporations, or on individuals. In this case, if we were to take the initiative to form Europe's Free Trade Association, EFTA, on business pressure against countries that directly contribute to a lack of order or with strange rules that we do not agree to contribute to some kind of activity that we believe is tailored to our laws and morals, it would be most practical for the purpose that humans have to put such pressure on a very narrow group of individuals who are in charge of the sector or companies who are involved in such activities. It has tremendous influence, and it is so limited, I believe, as the international community can bring about the affairs of such people that they think more than twice before they continue to do so. Similarly, it can be said that companies who engage in such activities can, in effect, be closed by the international community. Such actions would be a failure to influence only a very limited number of people, possibly the employees of the existing enterprises, but you ask yourself: " Is it our job to save us measures that keep people from working and promoting in a treacherous business? Of course not! However, this would prevent the wide number of people, often in blues, in countries that can be classified as tax - cutting countries from partially affected by such measures. Then there is another aspect of this matter that those who wish to discuss it on a Mexican foundation must also consider. This may be the case in cases where there have been a broader and comprehensive business pressure that it will affect those who are poor in appropriate lands. But let us not forget the other side of this matter, and it is that this action is already upon the poor in lands where they are paying taxes. Those who do so avoid paying for community construction, preventing them from paying their right share. In other words, they either cut back on social services in appropriate countries, such as Iceland, or leave other cities to pay for it. It is the other side of argument as reason. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson moved here today. This is very important in this discussion. First, international business pressure can be used to achieve only against a limited number of people, e.g. In the case of the Ukraine, they reached 10 people; then, this group was increased to less than 30, but it had a powerful effect, as well as other pressures. However, it is these embezzlements that have been applied to small groups that directly control and in the premium of illegal action, which have a very clear and powerful effect. The second and second, that is also the hard work that is being done to eliminate also reducing the quality of life of those who are ill, those who live in poor countries where they live in such a tax code or tax fraud. Mr. President. This discussion is closely related to the discussion that was here on Friday on the motion of a group of members of the left movement ▪ green offering. We in the United States support that suggestion. Of course, what is strange in this discussion is that those who have expressed themselves on the part of the executive authority do not come to her. I have to say it's strange to have a discussion day after day on the issues that have become the most environmental issue in Icelandic society and that have taken away from the huge transport of money from Iceland to the tax industry where it's stored in bills that we don't even have an idea of who owns and where we've got it, at least In one case, even a person who has even spent money on demand, buying paper in the Icelandic state, was among the demands. It is no wonder, then, that none of the executives, none of the highest. Minister, come here for the discussion. But praise is due to those who are to be commended, and I want to thank them. The members of Elín Hirst, Sigurjónsson Sigrundjónsson, Willum Þór Þórsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and other members of the government who have come and discussed the matter and all, each one of whom has spoken from the government team has been more and less willing to agree with the arguments we have made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u28	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a council resolution on international economic pressure against low taxes. She's been moved by the first transporter, my ass. paritaprevir And the Árni of Páll the son of Árnason, which followed her, There are several points in a report that have not been discussed much, but we do well to discuss. I must say at the beginning of my speech, and thereby take under the words of the last speaker, why. paritaprevir Snoops, Össur of Skarphéðinsson's son, that the Congress resolution proposal we address is similar to the motion we discussed on Friday afternoon, suggested the left movement a green offer for an investigation into Iceland's Offland Society and tax collections. All of this is made up of so - called Panama documents that have been published and that have caused quite a stir in many parts of the world, especially in Iceland, as compared with what has been presented and will be more evident in those materials. Therefore, this proposal is proposed to announce that the European Union, which we have intervention through the EEA, will employ international business pressure. The proposal says, with President's permission: Then the European Commission's ideas on a black list of countries and regions that are not ready to cooperate and that they will be followed by the pressure and pressure to implement EU and OECD-aggression agreements on tax issues, including OECD Base Erosion Prolifer Shifing Guidelines and the OECD Convention on Interimment on Mutual Assistance in Taxes Matters It also discusses that the European Union, the PHARE organization, has provided suggestions, at the highest level. The prime minister made a subject of speech today, the suggestions for dancing men in these matters. All of it at the same well as this one. Governments around us, countries with whom we have dealings, look for ways to prevent tax collections and to take on low tax and tax taxes. Following the publication of the Panamas, it is said that there have been loud demand to stem the activities of these countries. The proposal that five of the most powerful European Union, Britain, Germany, France, Italy, and Spain have recently announced that the government will exchange information that will be useful to prevent tax collections by the use of deportations. A witness is made in what Britain's secretary of finance, George Osborne, announced of an agreement on an international black list of tax sources, and many G20 countries have welcomed these plans. It also discusses what representatives of the World Bank have said and are discussing. There is then a proposal for an investigation of Panama documents on which the Council will take its stand in May, but many members of the European Parliament have called for research and action following the leak. It is truly needed. During Friday's discussion of the proposal left green, I referred to a meeting where I sat where the tax investigator reviewed these issues, including The data purchased here and the problems the tax authorities in these countries face. It was shocking to hear the description that in the provinces it is not necessary to make a annual account and not be obliged to promote taxes. There was also an example of a company that can therefore be registered in Luxembourg, which is in the European Economic Area, but can then be registered with a company in Tortula, and listed as or shown that speciality was paid, let's say 100 million million. A.J., but no hope for the tax authorities to get a break-up on who was paid. That must be why people go to the tax countries to hide money, so that they don't have to be reputed, so that they don't have to work in annual accounts and so on. It's a little special that money is being taken to countries that have very low interest compared to growth in Iceland. All of this is at the same well, a respectable president. As I said, the Panamas' invention has made it possible that these issues are being discussed in all countries and how their communities can prevent this. Therefore, I rejoice with what is presented here in the EU, to make a black list of countries that do not wish to participate in this information related to it. This is also shown in the report, according to the government taxpayer's opinion, about 80 million were sent by taxpayers. They're talking about covering up property, as I said before. A respectable president. I think these two suggestions are an important part of the discussion in this country that we are facing at the General Assembly. We need to decide what we want to do because this, of course, cannot work out. May I also remind you that at the same time as this uncertainty situation exists, when the vote will be made to stop government sales for a certain time. I'll tell you in my own due respect, from the discussion that took place at a hearing today, i.e. of my query to the highest. The secretary of finance about things that happened at the sale of the National Bank has 31.2% share in Borging and the opaque that was there, secret and really very strange business practices, that I feel the need for such a procedure while men are just gearing up and determining how this is supposed to be. This is not an invitation for members of society to watch. For this particular account of the city that I and the highest. The president has often discussed at council, if you can figure out that the benefits of selling that small thing are now, let's say that the lower number is 4 billion and the higher the figure is up to 8.5 billion, it's natural something that can't go. It is only natural for the people of the country to be overwoven and go crazy. At the same time, the State has become of great possessions and income, especially the property there. I add, as shown today, that up to half of the price of the item, this 2.2 billion share in paying, is back in two years as profiting from companies, i.e. The amount of money that will then begin to reach 3 billion dollars. I welcome this proposal, for I am one of her transporters, just as I welcome the council-sounding proposal of the left green. However, I rejoice that the government has done, putting on employment in this regard which is actually similar to here, and what else has been done in the process of the Panama documents that have come along and have shaken society. A respectable president. I suggest that these proposals be treated by a Senate committee along with other proposals to make this statement and that prior to the end of the council and the council members go home and vote for elections and try to reach an agreement of all the members of the General Assembly, all parties, who become a suggestion for which all can accept, and men feel sufficient to try to stop these holes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u29	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes to the bill for changing food laws, slaughtering laws and slaughtering laws, and monitoring of food, crop and seed products. The bill suggests a change in food law that involves monitoring the early production of food plants from the Food Agency to health care care and that the food companies that produce cables, goat and sheep milk should have leave a license. There are also changes in the laws on slaughtering and slaughtering products and the rules for monitoring food, fertilizer and seed products that allow Ministers to introduce the EU types by regulations if the product does not require changes in the law. The committee received reviews on the matter of Congress and makes in the light of the comments that were made, and after meeting with Ólafsson, frá the provincial og atvinnuvega nýsköpunarráðuneyti, slight changes in the bill to sharpen its contents and correct expressions. For a discussion of the matter, it was noted that since operations are prepared, i.e. Both agricultural and food crops will continue to be monitored by health care and the Food Organization. The committee points out that under the law on food, monitoring is permitted and could therefore be conducted by the Food Organization. The Commission considers the regulations of the bill to be a major improvement and encourages the establishments to seek to conduct monitoring activities in a most simple way for those who are being monitored and current sources of common surveillance where appropriate. Mr. President. I don't speak of the changes made in the Senate. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen for Director Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson foreman, Lilja Magnúsdóttir Magny Magnússson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Björt Ólafsdóttir, Kristján L. Möller, Páll Pálsson, Þýfjörður Sæmundsson, and Hjálmar Hafliðason Heath.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u30	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the Western Council's support of an audience at the Arctic Council. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konstósdóttir, president of Iceland's Western Council, and Inga Dóra Markussen, director of the Western National Council. The proposal is to secure the government's support for the Western Council's application for an audience at the Arctic Council. In recent years, Western authorities have given increased emphasis on the affairs of the north and have promoted an increasing discussion of democracy in the north, for representatives of the three Western countries are appointed to represent the inhabitants of the north. The Commission has a right to the audience of the Western Council that the Arctic Council would ensure an increased access to northern affairs and provide representatives with access to meetings of the council as well as right to work in its working groups. Thus, the three Western countries were given increased opportunities to influence regional policy now, one of the three countries, a member of the Arctic Council. The Commission believes that the official support of the Iceland Government for the Western Council application strengthened the application and gave it added force. A similar contemporaneous proposal has already been adopted in the Faeroe Islands, and in the Greenlandan Parliament it will be proposed in May. The committee considers it important that the national standing representatives of the people of the north receive an audience at the Council of Arctic, giving them an opportunity to communicate the views of people of the north and to protect their rights and interests. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under these pages, members of the committee go. Foreign Director Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Vilmur Bjarnason, Sigurjónsson Sigrándjónsson, Elín Hirst, Óttarr Proppé, who stands here, Árnadóttir Tínar Árjörnótir, and Össur Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u31	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal to correct the conversion of electrical law, no. 65/2003, with subsequent changes, on the link of the smaller activaters to the electrical distribution system. The background of this case is a small bill for law, which a professional committee joined in the transfer of electricity laws, No. 65/2003, as mentioned earlier, simple access to small activations into the network of electrical energy allows for creating a management environment for small power plants and their owners to use electricity. A meeting with the procrastinator came with agents from Rarik ohf. In a committee program, what I now recommend is a small change to the bill that meets the viewpoint shown in the comments of the above bodies to sharpen the legislation and make it easier to operate. Mr. President. I'm not going to run the changes that surfaced. 1214. Under the heading, President Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, chairman of the Committee's View, Rafney Rapney Magnúsdóttir's daughter, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafsdóttir Ólafsdótir, Kristján L. Möller, Pálsson, Þóðfjörður Sæmundsson, and Egilsdóttir Eglílílótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u32	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party with a change to bill for foreign law, No. 96/2002, with subsequent changes, a panel and an increase in members of the Committee. The bill was submitted by a greater share of the General and Education Committee. Now the committee has discussed the matter and has brought visitors to their home. The objective of the bill is to ensure a reasonable and effective treatment for the application for international protection. The changes taken by the bill are aimed at promoting the function of the NTSB and supporting careful court treatment and increasing the speech rate at the first administrative level. It is suggested that the members of the judicial committee of foreigners be increased from three to seven, and they have completed a legal or master's test and have expertise in foreign affairs. In the treatment of the Commission bill, it was noted that there are a small number of people with this expertise in this country and that experience has shown that it may be difficult to find qualified individuals who met such high standards. In view of this, the majority of the Committee considered it proper to remove this qualifications, which is consistent with the qualifications for president and vice president of the Committee. The bill states that the minister shall appoint three men on a committee that should evaluate the qualifications of candidates for the office of the Chairman and the vice president of the Commission of Foreign Affairs and that the Committee should provide the minister with a written logical review of candidates. At the same time, the review of the Committee should take a position on the most qualified candidate for a job and that it is forbidden to appoint a candidate whom the Committee has not considered to be the most qualified among candidates. A greater proportion of the Commission suggests that the committee evaluating qualifications should not take a position on which the applicant is most qualified, but in accordance with the law of No. 85/2015, on the social ruling committee. The bill also advises that the Commission is permitted to assign a chairman to a decision in matters considered by the committee to be undecided by policy making. The committee feels that the wording of the law is properly applied to the law of No. 85/2015, on the social decision committee, in view of the fact that if a case is large or if there is an example, a director may decide that five members of the Committee are on the committee for this discussion. A greater proportion of the Committee also agree with the views expressed in the United Nations Refugee Agency that it is important for the Commission to set clear procedures to determine when a chairman is permitted to judge alone. The bill also suggests that the NTSB will be granted permission to determine the need for a complaint by the committee itself. With this adjustment, the principle that the accuser has the right to appear before the committee is himself wishes to do so, and he suggested that the committee, instead, be invited by a accuser or his spokesman to appear to the committee when it feels necessary. It was noted in the review of the Commission of Foreign Affairs that it was desirable that a chairman and a vice president would also be granted authority to decide that a defendant would appear before a committee where, otherwise, such a decision would be seriously decided in the first place and could cause delay in the case. The majority of the committee agree with these views and suggests a change in the law. Then the bill suggests that when it comes to a decision that has been denied asylum and humanitarian permission and the charge comes from a state of state that is listed on the list of secure origins. During the Commission bill, there was some criticism of this change that was thought to result in a decrease in the security of candidates from countries. The majority of the Committee suggests that c-joints 3. gr. will be removed, but the assessment by the Committee is that this point should be considered more closely as a bill for the treatment of foreigners now available for the treatment of the committee, a 728th case during the current council. So the majority of the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes that have been attributed here, and I will say no more about them. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen won Konráðsdóttir Konásdotsdótttir, chairman and executive, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and Karl Garðarsson. Under the committee, a letter is written in advance. Senators Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þývarfónardóttir and they will likely make an account of him. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was away from the hearing. I'd like to thank all the guests who helped the committee to understand and explain the matter in their handling for the coming and their contributions and thank the members of the Committee for a good cooperation with the case. I'll finish here and suggest that the bill be agreed with the existing changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-106.u33	Mr. President. I'm just going to come up with a discussion on the committee opinion of bill to legalize the alien law on the DA's case. We've called this little foreign matter, but there's not a small but an important factor in dealing with what we're dealing with, i.e. The number of refugees, inmates, and people who come to us because of some kind of emergency. It is true that two of us are on the committee's alert. Of course, it is possible to make any kind of effort possible, but it is essential that those jobs be speeded up so that people do not have to wait as long as they have to go to that point and that they do not have to look around in the system between hope and fear as if their issues will get going or if they need to leave the country. My lord and my lord. paritaprevir The Ólína toll of the Kjerúlf's Þorvarðardóttir is in such a way that we believe that transparency is being maintained in the entire process for the members of the prosecution and that increasing treatment rates do not adversely affect the quality of the trial or the safety of the defendants. C- team 2. it is suggested that the NTSB be given complete permission to evaluate which cases are needed by the defendant himself. This is a change that I realize that is in an attempt to speed up a trial, but it is coming to the point of cutting down the rights the accusers have had. I am deeply concerned about this, and I really hope that there is no way to cope with the person who makes it. It is actually put in the hands of the committee that a member of the committee would appear before the committee when she feels that the need is needed, that is no longer directly the subject. I'd also like to talk about who's nominated, i.e. Who is calling this committee? I find it interesting that the Minister orders the two who need to be regional judges, i.e. The Chairman and the backup plan. The other five are nominated by the National Rights Office of Iceland and the University of Human Rights and then there are two without a appointment. You hope that there we will have qualified and kind people to the profession who will always be guided by the altruism of all cases rather than by the system, but we have heard very much criticism that they are primarily the advice rather than the humanity. To ensure a reasonable and effective trial treatment should always be based on human consideration and no other human opinion. It is all right to assume that a number of inmates are expected to be around and over 600 and even more. The months that have passed since the year show that the number of people who come to us is increasing at the same time each year and naturally. Hopefully, this will strengthen it. Two. It is also said that three members of the committee are to attend a meeting in each case. It is a little trying to suggest that with the increased number of members of the committee, they will be able to produce some kind of specialization, since cases are often highly specific. It is very good to be able to develop some such expertise, which should further contribute to a faster pace. At the same time, both president and vice president have permission to determine alone and to make reasonable decisions that can confirm the decisions of the lower government. I feel that there's a great need to be a very careful eye for this to work. There has been a great deal of work being done on the committee, and the matter has been given a long and thorough discussion, and we have reached some common conclusion. What was most controversial in the bill was in Article 5. magazine on secure origins, which is taken away here. It changed a lot and made it possible for us to accept that this was a priority and that there was something else that we could do about it in a long time, but this would be important if we could speed up the trial and people didn't have to wait, as I said before. Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion. I'm glad it's getting through here. I would also like to thank you for your regular work on the Committee. I particularly thank the Chairman for the extraterrestrial attention of this and the manager who worked on the big bill and had insight into it as well as both of them. This is crucial when we consider such delicate topics.
