ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u1	A respectable president. A bill of the above is moved to a high position by members of the committee. It deals with changing laws on the affairs of disabled persons and is only about the extension of temporary arrangements. A deal with rural communities on so - called user - controlled personal assistance has been made, and much agreement has been made among members of Congress to extend the law. There would be a total law on this subject. There's not enough time to finish it, so this is a process of extending contracts with rural society. This will involve several costs and will be expected in a budget bill for the coming years. That's what I'm recommending to do. Councilmen that this continues to be a solid agreement and that the matter is paid in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u2	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend the bill of the General and Education Committee on the granting of citizens' rights. This time the commission received 56 applications, but we recommend that 31 persons be granted citizenship. Is that name list available.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u3	V.E.G. President. I recommend the majority of the financial and business bodies of the Commission on a bill to legalize various criteria for budgeting for 2017. Before making major changes, I'm going to do a brief review of the key elements of the bill. It is, in fact, there. there is an increase in child improvement in terms of budgetary development, with an increase of 3% and a 12.5% higher limit of property. Transient calculation rules for growth improvement are extended by one year apart from the cut-off limits which also increase 12.5%. Expenditures for interest are maintained from financial planning. The bill also anticipates a 2.2% increase in centennial costs in line with the price-presidents of the budget, as well as a 2.5% of specific increases to improve the impact. This is a total of 4.7% increase. The same increase is the contribution made to the elderly. Changes in tobacco charge are made, assuming a significant rise from the one listed on the bill. It is expected that by 2017 there will be an increase in income of 500 million. K. which will have a slight increase in the index of consumer prices, i.e. of 0.053%. There is an expected increase in the exact amount of incubator charge from a $100 bill. of 300 K. for each sold hostly unit. This is also expected to result in a substantial rise in the bill of FME currency according to the estimated cost of operating. As a result of this large increase, there was a significant debate in the Committee, and this is, of course, based on the increase in the financial cost of the FEC will be greatly increased by projects that are inevitable due to the change in legislation, the proposed plans as well as to change the law of the General Assembly, where there is an increased demand for monitoring. As a result, this payment will not be avoided. The management of the case for the Commission also led to great disappointment that insurance fees are not to be dropped, which were considered, in particular, to have been expected to have agreed on by the labour agreements and would have actually been essential to the agreements. In view of the financial agenda, these revenues are expected in the state's funds, and it may also have a bearing on the fact that the majority of government in the country is not yet under way, and such decisions have been made. Government budget simply did not allow this to drop, and you may know that. There is also a change in the depletion of valuable taxation in environmentally-friendly groups automobiles. Buss. appeared before the committee, was buying electric cars, and requested that the charges be reduced in their case. The majority of the committee suggests that the adjustment of the directive is to add a list of the groups under which buses fall, as well as other larger types of bus transport. It's a minor injury, but it's suggested that it reach a group bus for 22 passengers or more. Because of the budget of the 3 mg. The law will be relative to relatively low williness, but more parts will view the change as the first step in changing the environment and new environmental-friendly policy. The committee has been informed that such work has already begun in the Ministry and is being asked to complete it before the 2017 fall council. Other proposed changes are minor. The product numbers are being corrected in the 40th paragraph. The bill and the change of sunset rules in the telecommunications laws because of the particular circumstances mentioned in the introduction to the committee, but I did not read up. With the changes listed here, the more part will suggest that the bill be accepted. Under the headings of all committees, but Björt Ólafsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy sign it in advance. They feel that the matter would have needed more coverage and that the committee had needed more time for its release. Smaller Mccarthy supports the changes made in the larger part, but more adjustments will also be provided. Under the writings of President Benedikt Jóhannesson, Brumes the Brynjar of Níelsson, Elsa Lára the daughter of Arnardóttir, Sigríður On. Andersen and Vilhjálmur the son of Bjarnason, and Björt Ólafsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u4	Madam President. Hv. A senator who spoke before may not have been quite right when he said that all members of the committee would sign the opinion he recommended that the person listed here is not among them and will now recommend the members of the committee Part 1. The Economic and Business Committee. It's no wonder there's a why. Of course, controversies in view of the fact that discussions about tax matters are highly political, and they have put their faces on political discussions lately, how we want to earn money to care for social projects. There has been a great debate on the budget. Council members agree that it is necessary to attack in the light of circumstances where there is no more political issue at the General Assembly. It is important if we are able to make certain peace with one another, but it is also possible that it is difficult to reconcile how we are making money in order to build up our community and how we want to live in public cities. At times, a talk about tax matters is primarily technical, but it is not. This, of course, is fundamental political, for taxes are not only necessary for earning money to care for social projects but also for important equations. According to many scholars, the tax system is the most effective instrument in increasing the balance in society. I'll witness there, including... To French economist Thomas Piketty, who is probably most likely the most selling economist of the day, who wrote a great book called "the wealth. " It points out that although the welfare system is, of course, an important support in the community is that the tax system is much more effective if we want to secure the equation. In support of his case, he points out how inequities or equations, whether we call them, have developed in Western communities, how tax changes have affected them, and especially how the integration of capital funds has increased inequities, much more unevenly than we generally see in the commercial distribution of society. When we talk about it here on the land, politicians from all classes, all of whom are very busy talking to us because we have a lot to compare with the rest of the country, we're usually talking about the equation in earnings. However, in view of all its assets, it is precisely where the inequities have increased, not only in Iceland, where the richest 10% has its 3/4 possessions, but especially in other Western lands. When we consider the richest 1%, much of which has been discussed, at least in other places in the Western world, we are primarily talking about the inequities of property. Piketty points to the equation as an important economic goal. Consider the research now done in economics. I mention, for example. Lately listed OECD report for radical strains since December 2014. It cites studies showing that increasing inexorability decreases economic growth, and income balance has had a measurable effect to reduce this growth. We can see that equalizing is not just a goal of righteousness; it is also an important economic goal. The same has been discussed by economists at Cambridge University who have noted that the British economy has grown relatively less than it would have been because of the economic policy of the new freeness of energy. It is, therefore, not only a political objective but also an economic goal. We're not supposed to be shy about that. It is important that we keep track of this development in Iceland even though I, like others, do. Councilmen, may admit that this is an even greater area than any other one, especially when it comes to public income distribution. We're supposed to be happy about it. I quote the Economic Index VR from October of this year, showing that the buypower of provision grew by 3.8% between 2014 and 2015. It was only the highest income rate of 20% that had higher elevations. This is a clue that we should listen to and take seriously that it might indicate an increase in income balance in the community. ASI has noted that the richest 20% gain nearly half of all provisions, and it has been shown that during recent terms tax changes increased the tax rate for all groups except the highest rate of 20%, but their tax burden decreased to a greater extent than that it could be explained by payoff. There is evidence that there is a decline in income equations after high levels in the years following collapse. As all of us will remember, there was an increase in society's dissatisfaction before collapse but a considerable decrease in the collapse, both because much wealth was lost and also because the last government's actions focused on protecting those with the lowest income. I quoted earlier to the estate. It may be the biggest issue in the world when it comes to the inequities of land as well as in Western lands. That is why the importance of a wealth tax and step-traveled capital tax has been pointed out, but both are proposed to make changes, in all cases, I accept, by the committee's opinion. Such measures aim to increase the balance of righteousness and economic goals but are also an important source of income to strengthen the interior of long-term neglected society. I guess that's where most people in this room can agree. Wherever there are challenges, whether viewed as a health system, an education system, or a national transportation system, are faced. And much work remains to be done to improve the quality of the elderly and the poor. For this development to take place in an economic responsibility, it is important that the citizens of the State be permanently funded. The fairest way to do that is to tax the funds where they can be found. In addition, such taxation reduces the amount of money in traffic as a number of road users. Today, members of the council have expressed concern with another subject that was discussed earlier today, and thus may be able to cope with the recent expansion of a major concern. It is obvious that when a new government is formed, its first task must be to put together a strategy on how to reduce the expansion in order to prevent apace in the economy. On the other hand, the significant increase in former government, or current government, has been as oil on fire and has been encouraged to expand, contrary to the advice of the Federal Bank, which has repeatedly pointed out the need for financial policy. An increase in tax count has been referred to as an action that serves reverse purposes, i.e. increases the frequency more than the other. Here are also some other suggestions, which may not necessarily be of this injury, but a tax of public health is also about increasing the equation. We also see a certain imbalance in health issues. Here is a very modest way to tax especially soda, sugary soda, and sodas with added sweets. The surgeon's home page shows that according to a recent study of 6 - year - old diet, children on average receive 11% of their energy from additive sugar. Well, I guess you don't need to know why. This is quite a matter of general advice for members of the council. This proportion is 13% in 9-year-old children and 16% in 15-year-olds. Less than 60% of the 6 year olds eat too much sugar. More than half of the added sugar comes from sugary soda and cool drinks, candy and ice cream in 9 years of age and less than 70% in 15-year-olds. A report published in 2011 in The Lancet, one of the world's most widely known health and public - health journals, evaluated the actions of the Australian government for the greatest benefit and success in resisting obesity. The results of the analysis were that taxes on non-alcoholic products were the most effective means of improving health and reducing expenses. For this reason, the 1st smaller portion puts in place a special tax on the dusted soda, i.e. that they will be brought up to the top of the merit tax level. Icelanders drink an average of 130 gallons (30 L) of sugary soda every year, and we have some kind of Northland meal and certainly a European record, and perhaps a world record, and eat an average of 45,448 kg of sugar a year. A closer examination of these studies shows that consumption increases as the age scores decline. Here it is suggested that the products containing sugary soda will be added to a higher value tax level, but the public health goal with the change is clear, this is the trend that we see in many other parts of the world, for it is not merely a public health goal to improve people's quality of life because this certainly reduces the consumption of sugar. This is not only a business of income that can be used to strengthen the important structures that we all agree to strengthen, but it is also a procedure that is about - now completely stolen from me what I was going to say, but it was something very important. Now I have to look and remember what it was. Maybe later. But there were three types of goals that I had devised. That was a public health goal, a revenue goal... All right, here we go. Environmental and resource taxes are next on the agenda. I would like to say, then, that a community of Icelandic people face very challenges that involve climate change and their impact on environment and society. We talked only about carbon tax in the days when this bill was recommended. I'd say that putting the economy in line with the changing world conditions is a priority, that you need to reexamine economic standards and establish climatic records. That doesn't mean we're always agreeing on a plan out and south. We can mention a energy exchange program adopted during the last assembly. She doesn't happen anywhere else in the government. She's just some piece of paper out in the city, almost unconnected to everything else and during the course of an endless revision, e.g. on the tax system to increase green taxes. But it seems to take a few years. We don't have that time. I pointed to the other day and wrote that carbon charge is the most effective taxation to reduce the use of nonrenewable energy, including has Lagarde Lagride, secretary - general of the AGS, pointed to this and believes that carbon tax is a much more efficient method of reducing this use than of the EU - based emissions market. OECD, again the radical institution, has identified the lower rates of carbon and tax on gasoline, diesel oil, and oil for heating in this country than in other parts of the North. OECD has further suggested that carbon emissions of carbon dioxide are approximately 80% too low to be used to protect the climate as well as in a new report by the National Economic and Development Organization, at a minimum of 60% of the emissions of countries are found to be below the minimum limit and no charge for the full 60% of the emissions. By raising and reaching more fuel sources, such as kerosene and coal, greenhouse gases and other pollutants could be effectively reduced. My 1st section thinks it's right to cut off carbon reserves. I testify to filming a Cox and a coal, which, in fact, was the case. You can find in the electrodes that are now being used in a major industry in this country, which has been the exception of that price. I don't suggest that in the transition because I think it's gonna take more time. As we know, the change of opinion and proposal was spread only a few minutes ago because there has been little time to take deep into these topics. On the other hand, I propose to raise the price for next year, not to be 5%, but to 10%. I certainly hope that support will come from this normal increase not only, and now I plan to go back over goals and hope that I remember them now, to earn money, but also to contribute to important environmental issues when it comes to climate. This is something that everyone has. Senators must be able to agree on this. Everyone here, not everyone here, but most of the election party, talked a lot about getting paid for the tourism service. I expect that. Congress officials more than I have attended an endless collection of travel services. That's what I did at least ... beforetheelectionand a long way back. When the natural rights bill fell on a screen some years ago, they agreed on it at a council, huh? Councilmen, that there must now be some way to achieve an efficient payment for tourism and it would be best to proceed with the reconstituted route, to witness at that time's talks. Inspire fees and due expenses were covered. This financial bill suggests three-folding of the host's fee. I declare my support for that change, but I suggest a comedown on tourists. I want to state that tourism has become the nation's largest industry, as everyone knows, and has played a major part in the economic benefits of society. It is already a source of great value to us, to whom we should rejoice. On the other hand, I think it is quite early to realize that it lacks money to build up, not just through the tourist funds, but lacks money to build up other infrastructures. I'm making transportation, for example. I also mention a business around peaceful territory, to form a ground guard that is in total disintegration here on the land. We need large sums of money to cover up the peace-circuit areas so that we can ensure proper contact with these areas, so we don't deal with the resources that are definitely available to Iceland's natural resources. That's the resource that's dragging tourists into this country. That's 80 percent of the resources we need to strengthen. While there's a positive way to raise the amount of innkeepers, I would feel that a lack of income is needed. So we propose a return rate for every ticket, 1,000 bucks. ... fromSeptember 1st. How interesting it will be to see the position of a man! Councilmen to this income stock that I know that many of them have given support during recent months. Finally, I would like to point out that in a number of the reports received by the Committee because of this topic under discussion, including The common European Union of Iceland, but also from Iceland's Economic Community and Other Member States, points out that income and possessions are affected by child and growth improvements in the past few years, are not up-to-date with indicators and prices. A smaller portion contributes to this improvement, allowing the amount of money to increase by 35% from what is currently being replaced by the 12.5% increase expected by the bill. I'll suggest that the bill be approved by the changes included in a Senate document. Like what? Councilmen see it as an explanation for all these adjustments. Changes in income and property targets are made for the early stages of child development and growth improvements. Then there is a provision for a new form of a wealth tax, with the exception of a home for your own use, such as the winter. These elections were specifically proposed by members of the United States. In addition, the taxation of sodas plus sugar and sweets is added. It's part of section 4 of the transition proposal, and it lists the numbers they drink under so that they don't hear things like that, for example, as I've been assured by the Ministry of Financial Affairs, unscheduled mineral water. Then comes a law on the proper tax system, and it is proposed to include a set of dues, and it is done quite in detail. It's a good thing that I read it too, a special peak level in income tax over $2 billion. K. This will be added during a month, during which stress is added. In addition, there is a suggestion from the ground. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, representative of Pirata, which I will support, aims to postpone the reduction of steps in the step-change of the tax system. Finally, the pressures on capital taxes are that 25% of capital income taxes will be applied to non-employee capital gains of more than 2 billion. K. In a year of income. I don't intend to keep this speech much longer. I'd like to reiterate. Councilmen here are given the opportunity to demonstrate their position, as a payment for travel services, for public health goals, but during this most ideal period, there has been a national - health Ministerial Committee. I'll pay particular attention to how the highest is. A health minister votes on this important public health tool proposed. Here, too, it is possible to decide whether we really believe that the tax system should be used evenly in the community, apart from assuming that these proposals can all yield considerable amounts of money to cover the expenses they need. Congress officials have brushed their hair over in recent days and weeks, finding ways to finance the health system that we all love so much, the education system that we all know in our hearts that is the key to our future in this world, the lowest paid, elderly, and older citizens, the ways we all agree on, and we know all about being neglected. Here's an excellent opportunity, Madam President, to show his mind in a job like that for such revenues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u5	Madam President. I will support, as well as members of the United States Congress, the changes proposed by the majority and also by force. The members of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and Smári Mccarthy, according to their claims, yet I would like to account for our views. Work in the preparation of funds and income is carried out under some special circumstances. The government of the country is a government government that has failed to form a government. So she does not rely on any particular part at the council. Thus, proselytizing the matter has been attempted on the committee and is a special reason to commend members of the committee. The bill was presented concomitantly with the budget, but both are based on the government budget of the last government submitted last summer. So it's impossible to approach the bill as if it were a political document. It's based on this government budget. It's a government program. According to the United States, there is a need for more investment in health and education systems and, in particular, attention to improving the ideal family, tenants, the first buyers, the elderly, and the desperate. All too many in these groups are in overcrowded. It is easy to finance this urgent project by increasing the income of the state of the resources by collecting higher fishing costs and/or buying out food and making more money for tourists who come to Iceland of previously unknown numbers. It is possible to collect income from big users of electricity and increase the equality of the tax system. In payment of such a bill, there's always a clear list of how their attitude is in terms of spending and paying taxes. It shows how society wants to build up, what situation they want to make for the citizens, what exchanges of possessions, income, and how taxes are imposed on each individual. Thus, this bill shows flat - scale increases in various products, such as gasoline, tobacco, and alcohol. Some of these will be viewed as necessary items, perhaps even dangerous. However, the aim does not seem to be to impose them on public health grounds, so it would have been much easier to add a sugar tax. They are primarily meant to earn money. The problem with such a tax system is that it bites most of the most of the earnable homes at the same time as other tax changes that have been used by the earners of the world. A much better chance is that the current tax changes will be on a wide range of community banks, the best of them. Let us recall that in recent years, the large production has benefited by hundreds of billions, and taxes have dropped to 20% as much as they earn. The Company wants to turn from the tax policy that has been fired for the last three years. The United States states that neither the financial nor social stability of the budget nor the financial nor social stability is to be fully supported by the United States. The petition also pointed out in its review of the financial policy that the bank sent to a budget committee on May 21, U.S.A., that if it is not considered to reduce the investments of public citizens, other expenditures need to be reduced or to obtain the official increase in income, e.g. ... witha higher taxance. It is a message that is still applicable today, which may be remembered as soon as the groups promised an expansion of the election's success. A new council is now able to ensure social stability to the economic level and to increase the social equation. This is the best way to improve the standard of living in the country and contribute to the peace of work. Madam President. It is important that the profit of the resources of the country be used to reduce national income and consumption taxes and to support the funding of a powerful welfare system. Especially do we need to look for the state to collect fair landlands in fishing, energy processing, and the income of tourists. They are to be built at tourist attractions and other health - care costs for their arrivals, such as police and rescue work. Like the past few years, reasonable resource costs are not far enough. It must be looked at the export of resources, the pressures of new electricity and environmental taxes, and the exception of travellers from common values levels. We in the United States have estimated that by means of a source supply, a resource could easily be increased in a fishing industry of 15 billion a year. We also believe that it is possible to obtain about 10 billion by noting that the leftover hostilities will be provided from a general level of value, but the financial bill shows that tax donations for tourism are up to 20 billion in 2017. Madam President. Government income can be increased by national resources at least Thirty billion. That must be one of the most important projects of the next government. Young tenants or tenants each face difficult circumstances. A tenant market is expensive, and not all who can afford a down payment on an apartment and cannot provide adequate financial support for their children. There are over 6,000 children who lived in poverty in Iceland in 2014. Therefore, it is urgent to support these groups more fully. The most effective way to do this is to increase child-making, which is income-related and growth improvements, both income and property-related. Thus, support would be directly available where he is needed. The children have fallen to real value in recent years, and extra funding is needed to raise the reference height and reduce the amount of income. The most important tax reduction is the reduction in pay insurance. It works best for small and medium-sized companies, many of which depend on intelligence and offer well - paying jobs and diversity. Good working conditions for these articles are key to the development of Icelandic employment. It also includes an important community policy, even though that feature is often forgotten. Madam President. It is important to counteract an increase in the number of indiscretions. We do so by ensuring equal opportunity for all by operating on a powerful public welfare system. Recent studies of established foreign organisations, e.g. OECD, show that the economy of the least dissociatives is best achieved. In order to improve the equation, the local tax system has to be applied. In particular, they need to be watched, while the richest 1% of the population has about 20% of all property and the richest 5% of the population almost half of all property. In order to gain more money from these assets, it is wise to establish a wide-scale tax over specific limits where one property is excluded. Finally, we have to put on capital tax. Madam President. In order to increase income balances and to ensure further income, the United States feels that there is a significant increase in tax subsidies in this country. In particular, there is the need to look for a new tax step in the wages of those who have the highest salary. I think there's a change in that, and, of course, we'll be supporting them. One tax step is eliminated in the bill under consideration and the cost due to this is estimated to be about 3.8 billion. Changes in nature are most useful for those with 700 points. K. in a month's wages, and their tax burden only drops by 6,000. per month. It would have been much better to use this space to reduce insurance costs and/or to support children's families and those who are in trouble at a difficult housing market, e.g. with higher donations for child- and growth reform. It would require a goodly attack on the structure of a general renter, as agreed by the labour market partners. I don't want to forget the elderly and the desperate who are still waiting for their relief. This is a project that will soon be held out to the next government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u6	Madam President. Although I have signed a majority opinion of the Economic and Business Committee, I do so in advance because there are a number of things I would have liked to have been added to the committee and to take into account, as well as the fact that there are some things that were not specifically discussed in the Committee, but I think there are every reason to be taken into account here. So I propose my own modification proposal. Nevertheless, I enjoy the success of the work on the committee in this matter, and I also welcome both minor colors, from the left green and the Continent, even though I do not see myself as such. There is simply a good change in a minority's list. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Yet, I can say that while I support many of the action there, I find it necessary to refer to chapter 4 of a book by Peter Kropotkin, The Conquest of Bread, which would probably be published in Icelandic as the winner of the bread plan, something in that case, with a slight reaction to one of the major questions presented in the language of the day. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, about whether taxes are necessarily the most suitable means of contributing to the community and whether changes in system order to achieve equal wealth are not a more reasonable way to create a more permanent equation. Also, the Piranians have not been particularly fond of e.g. We are extremely convinced of the ability of people to make informed decisions about such matters. However, there may be reason to point out the need for good public health when it comes to dieting sugar. The changes I make are primarily based on various conversations that took place during the experiments to establish government at the time and were mainly ideas that may have been ideal in various categories. I do not take note of the biggest changes discussed in various groups, many of which have been discussed in a financial committee. There are many factors requiring extensive changes that it would just not have been appropriate to add them to this collection bill. Nevertheless, I chose a few good things that sound up to 1 billion here and 1 billion there, as they say. If all of this is collected from this real money, as someone put it, it should be possible to make a good impression on a future government, whatever it becomes, to care for the restoration of the health system or to fix the interior of the land, transportation, and so forth, or to strengthen education, or whatever the political parties at the World Council may have promised for the last election. No. No. No. No. 1 and 4 are subject to the postponement of inter-country deletion and a reduction in annual total income taxation. It suggests that temporary legislation on income tax laws and local payment laws will be extended for a year or so. This is, in fact, a provisional principle that comes from paragraphs 5 and 8. Last bandorms, i.e. A museum bill adopted last year, but this suggestion was very often torn up as a means of obtaining money to strengthen the health system. I'd like to make it a point that Piratars are not in general favor of maintaining a high tax level in the country, but still, perhaps that's the situation in society now, the rest of the budget, that's a very small reason to raise the 3.8 billion dollars. which is expected to be derived from these measures, which can then start rebuilding the health system, although this change will be of only one year. Another adjustment suggests the reimbursement of so - called ◯tax fres. According to 1st mg. 43. g. for value taxes the Minister may require by the regulations that a reimburse the non-employment tax may be reimbursed from products that are purchased by abroad and brought along when they leave the country, provided that the ministers consider necessary. The package of this Regulation, which appears on the Ministry's website, is listed in the financial level, but today it is covered in that the price of the product can be reimbursed at a maximum of 15%. There's a considerable ratio. Do I have this adjustment proposal to suggest that there be a decrease of payment to 7%. This idea was also discussed in connection with the last political event and was estimated to be a billion dollars. every year. It should be noted that this is in any way in harmony with what is going on in our neighboring countries. I'm reminded that the refund roof is about 9% in Sweden. It's working in a number of ways, but it's not usually as high as Iceland. The third adjustment proposal suggests that a car's worth tax is extended, not to one year, as suggested by the Commission's decision to make changes, but to 2020. This was discussed in the committee, but there was no agreement to go to that operation, and it may have been said that there could later be complete action. Still, I wanted to throw this idea into the discussion because there is something about moving these cars to a higher price because they expect this warrant to drop at any time. It was originally put on for three years, if I don't forget, and then it's been extended for a year. I think it's a good thing to extend it to 2020, as many of our neighboring countries have done, including Norway, for us to show a measure of strength to the energy exchange that many have discussed and supported. A fifth adjustment suggests a contribution to the Congregation and to the Christian Fund. There I suggest that there be an increase in donations for another year. Last year, an increase was delayed with the last collection bill of this species. In fact, it is in the spirit of Christmas that the church leaves behind to support health support, or even that it might go into foreign affairs, refugee affairs, and such. There are many things you could do with this money, which if gone, is not very high. Perhaps there is something that needs to be discussed. Sixth Amendment to Release Permissions. The bill suggests taxation for carbon dioxide emissions from just over 1,000 dollars. ... in968, it reminds me, I don't have the numbers in front of me. This is in response to the changes in Europe's markets at the expense of these emissions. Is it partly due to the idea of setting peaks and then doing business with the sources? Yet I consider the rise to $1,100. would create an excellent impulse to remove carbon dioxide's pages because this would be the difference between the market prices and this amount for those who have emissions when they continue to sell them if they do. Perhaps this will help to reduce future greenhouse gas emissions. It's very small, and maybe a little funny change. I don't know how much support they'll make, but it's nice that the council is allowed to treat them. Finally, I would like to say that the majority of the feelings I sign are close to many very fine changes that were made at the Committee, and thank you for the rest. The members of the Economic and Business Committee for that work because they were very good at it and maybe this will be included in the next round package.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u7	Madam President. Before 2017, we will discuss some of the basics of a bill for financial management. Of course, all of this hangs together on the same tape; the sum of money, the sum of money, and this bill, the various conditions of the budget, so I'm going to discuss these issues in this large context. Our committee's left green, 1st smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, has been recommended to recommend our proposal for changing the bill. In general, in terms of taxes, it has been found that during the last terms, tax burden has been rising, not on, but on average. The 20% with the largest income in the country have not been gaining additional taxes. Of course, this policy is contrary to the direction of the left green people, which is to tax on the subject and the situation, that those with higher income weigh more taxes than those who are rich and low - incomeed children and young people who are getting settled in life, look to them with a lower income tax rate and seeing that growth rates and child reforms are up to match the index and price benefits. In fact, it is stated in the bill that it has not been shown to be about child reforms and compensations. So we propose left greens to bring up to 35% instead of 12.5% for young people. They all want the welfare system to be good, transportation is good, and education is the best thing in the world, but most people are afraid to talk about how to earn money to live up to the things we think are so for granted in society where we want to settle a country. And that access to education and health - care systems is good, and it is not asked where you live on the social ladder or what income you earn, but that there is access to health care and access to education does not come to priorities for who has the means and who does not. It has recently been observed that much of our nation, far too much of it, has come to seek dental and health care. Of course, it is not normal for people to hesitate to attend, of course, medical services such as dental work and general health care services, whether in the form of medical care, special care, or medication because they cannot afford to perform such services. In recent weeks, we left greens have emphasized the importance of government development to gain income to meet the cumulative needs of society, infrastructure and education systems and health systems. That has been a limited understanding. Everyone has wanted to go far on those things, but when it comes to financing these factors, people have stumbled off the liver and not trusted to earn money to live up to what we probably find at times that they have the best in the world here in our rich society. But we left greens have not been shy about wanting to set priorities, and we also want to take taxes, for taxes are, of course, just what drives our community, but they have to be righteous taxation and shield the price of those less lenient and those who have more burden on them. It is now a great requirement that we look forward to the need for the development of the country's major tourist flow into the country. It is very bad that there have been no reimbursement costs during this terms, and there has been a lot of trouble with income and nothing has come out of no profit. We're not afraid to propose a comeback. It will be very interesting to see how this council hall handles this change in our proposal and will test them to see if a person thinks that a trip to the country will be taxed in a way that I think is a very simple and efficient way and should have gone a long time ago. We could use money to build infrastructure because of a lot of pressure in society because of the growth of tourists. There is a path that is very self - centered, and it has been adopted by the travelers himself and by a number of others in the community who are familiar with the seminary. The bill suggests three-fold maintenance fees, starting at $100 a.m. Up to 300 bucks. The ransom in itself is not a very large sum in the entire context. There are about 1.2 billion now in the European Commission Fund for tourism. The explanation that they are there is because the earlier government, in fact, later produced money into the fund, did not have the opportunity and the time to prepare to apply for it, may be more involved in the fund than it would otherwise. I'm asking why they're raising this to only 300 bucks. And look not at any kind of lodging in the back, to set up a lodge charge of 300 bucks. in a five-star hotel or in a camproom or in a cheap place? Why is there no rule on the price of rooming in such a subject? I don't think it would be complicated. The model is widely known abroad. I would have liked to see the host's fee take into account the value of beds. It would be very normal to look to that. We left green numbers for sugar tax. In contrast, he was relieved of his former government, but food tax was raised during the last terms. It is remarkable that this provision was made. The increase in food taxes from 7% to 11%, of course, increased prices and affected the population market. It is very bad that people have chosen to increase the food tax, since no one is able to avoid buying food to support themselves, but people in general can reduce sugar intake and release sugar products if they are changing. It was thought of improving public health in the country, and that's why we restore this sugar tax and hope that understanding of the material has increased from what was in the former more part here at the council when he decided to replace the sugar tax. We also contribute to an increase in carbon pay, which is consistent with the Paris meeting. We suggest child development and growth improvements. In this special situation, we are faced with the fact that we are trying against the political bitch, contrary to categories, to negotiate in financial terms, trying to get them together without being here for any more or less things, and having to take it into account, of course, the laws of the law will indicate that there are men who may not be concerned with anyone but from different criteria. We left greens have talked about making money where there are more money and the big business in the country with a higher income tax rate, high income taxes and money taxes and taxes in big companies, energy taxes as I have listed, and that fishing costs increase in the largest and the most powerful seafood companies that have been crushing profits in recent years but take into account the types that are very different from those that are not purging gold, especially at times when the gangs are going to the same level as they really do. We'd like to look at the balance between marine export companies, just as we do with the country's public through the income tax, to see where men are in the pursuit of income and their chemical status. On the other hand, we'd like to make a great deal of it for the maintenance and maintenance of the health and education system, but we'd like to face the fact that we're not doing it at this time for this year's costs, that's where we have to get the most out of it, but we hope that a new government, whatever it may be, will take over and correct the categories I've mentioned in the next year's budget. Because the need is urgent. It can be expensive for society to continue starving the welfare system and infrastructure and to be always doing the least that anyone can get away with, even with those in the country where the ideals are chosen, that, of course, they need to be taken seriously. The decision was at the end of the last terms to correct the situation of the elderly and the microenergy pensioner. That's good, but it needs to be done better. We also look to the fact that these groups were not being reactive. Of course, it is very unfair that not all members of the General Assembly have been reached at that job and have thus become involved. During the recent discussion, a lot of discussions have been made about the purchases and terms of members of Congress. I've wondered whether they should be put under the advice of men if the policy is to take the Church's clergy out of the Cathedral, whether or not the opening opening of the gaps for taking nitre and the elderly under the advice and having some grounds there for those groups that remain there, that they might keep certain dances there in both ends. I think it might be taken seriously. We are now trying to compromise at the council at the desk of the big cases that are waiting to be taken care of. It's part of the financial bill. But in terms of funding, we have left greens to show what is involved in the situation where we believe that there is a chance to earn money to live up to our will to improve our community and build up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u8	Madam President. I will deal with the two issues involved here. In recent years, the highest-reaching industry is the most important lifeline in the Icelandic economy. The government's income will be rated at a rate of 60 to370 billion. Whether it's true, I don't know, but in the tourism fund, approximately 2 billion bucks. which is in my opinion and in proportion to this abnormally low amount. The price or supply has been dropped by 600 million. K. but would have had to increase at least One billion bucks. ... ifI'dbewell. This money has not been used for many reasons that have actually appeared. This has been the case with local donations. Some of these are not the point of making money, resisting. Organizational issues have proved to be complex. The money taken from the government came late. At any rate, it is clear that there are very many places outside parks that are literally wounded, some very large, and they need some sort of emergency repairs and a sharp access in those places. This treasure is too narrow and has a fingernail cut over it. However, there are positive factors in the budget and the following items, e.g. The national parks I've mentioned before, and the water supply of the largest nation of people, however, makes any money to be accomplished, because it has tolerated traffic better in most places than in the smaller national parks, I mean both the National Park, Snowy, and the National Park on the Plains. They are much smaller, as men know, and become much more corrupt than the great park at the cry of water. These smaller ones need a lot more money, especially a Parliamentary park than they have ever been given. We need to act. Similarly, the amount of money needed is greatly increased, that has also been observed, in the national parks, and in nonviolent areas. In this regard, it is very important to review as first the role and authority of the chieftains. We know that they have permission to speak to people and to pray for one thing or another, but they do not have authority to give orders or authority that are meant by the police. Of course, such improvements need to be made, just as it is necessary to place more money on land in a large number of places around the country. Madam President. I'd like to step aside from special aspects of the tourism service. It is so that cultural and natural systems cannot rise without protection and all the environment and to enable them to identify the limit of endurance, social and natural as well as sites and regions as well as the country in general. Most of us would like to have a variety of jobs, not just three articles, much less than one industry. Most of us want sustainable development to be a guide for tourism, and this policy has been targeted. Then let us remember that the term applies to social and economic sustainability as much as to the use of nature in a way that is as good or as better. We will remember again and again the term "laborative limit. " When some politicians or tourists in tourism believe we can take in a large number of more tourists, as they say, it raises many questions. Does this mean that there is no limit to endurance? What is the meaning of the words "many more "? No one would think of planning a fishing business by muttering something much more than that. Remember, too, that calculated scenarios show that the sudden reduction in tourism would have very serious consequences for society all. Among early improvements, as well as funding for national parks and tourism services, increased research within tourism services, organizational changes in tourism and institutions, and review of road services laws are required. I've been speaking to the travel agency, and there should certainly be an important discussion in the future when millions of tourists are numbered and the ongoing lack of labor is a fact in this article. The new major elements of the country are to be associated with the same ones they once were. In the following year and years, we have a large and diverse project to improve the infrastructure, the state of the country too many and the organization for tourism, both for handwork, so to speak, and the provision of funds to receive millions of visitors, as well as the criteria for reasonable tolerability that we make and respect. The 2017 budget and budgets that must follow must reflect that many years into the future. Madam President. Other than duty, I promised I'd talk about two issues, and later, climate. When governments around the world see an ever more serious situation in the world before and during national relations, e.g. In Asia, where vast crowds depend on glaciers and sea level, there are two points in the international situation. First of all, we must work against the causes of climate change, it has become indistinguishable. This means rapid and massive recession of greenhouse gases and massive effort in land protection, recovery of deforestation and wetlands, and forest development that bind grasslands. All of this turns straight to Iceland. Second, the influence of climate change on national communities must be reduced and minimized. This means counterweight action and decisions on how cooperation between nations, not just research and information, can help the harder ones, as well as when knocking at our door. Madam President. There are plenty of monolanguage reports, and enough research is being published in order to get seriously started on both of these projects. To date, there has been insufficient progress in reducing emissions, as well as in determining how to react to erosion, acidification of the ocean, or global sea level. All of this does not mean that research or education should be reduced, just that research is no longer the top priority and should not be given the highest attention to governments, voters, companies, communities, and institutions. That is where quick action needs to be replaced. We need to put the matter into this very special sector for which we are famous. Let us focus on increasing attention, enough money, and total planning to reach the targets adopted by the Icelandic government at the Paris Conference, I have mentioned this before, with a clear plan, a goal set each year, and a wealthier. We don't put our words and commitments behind us, we don't do any of us. There's only 13 years left in the first phase. There are, of course, financial and financial contributions to support the fight against the climate problem, but it needs to be done better. The next year and all of the 13 years must have colored income and money. I'm calling a carbon bill. I'm talking about some environmentally significant cars, and they've mentioned them. It's all for the better, of course, but, as I say, it can be better if it works. Madam President. Both tourism and climate are major issues. At this time, the so - called climate application program with 16 points is abdicating and another strategy called the National Building Program, adopted by the 2016 General Assembly, is also abdicating. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter mentioned a energy exchange program that is also a genuine mystery child in this context. We can't get many chicken fats with this whole thing. It can be said that there is enough money to be needed, whether directly from the pay-to-work tourism, from travel campaigns for tourists who came in or from other income markets of the state and rural society. In terms of their return charges, it's said that they're gonna break the tourist population into Iceland, but I don't think that's possible because there are 1.5 billion people on the move around the earth and we're taking in here like 1 Prommill. Although the cost of a weekly trip in Iceland is said to be about 200 far away. S.H., increase by 1 or 2 you. ........ K. I'm sure there are plenty of people who don't mess with it. So I don't think that the cost of coming or raising the host's fee, which should be the proportion to stay overnight, as well. A senator mentioned before me, that there are repercussions in a way that disturb some tourist flow here and that will be replaced by the limit of endurance or other species necessary to make a decision sooner or later. We left green, we want tourism and nature as well as people who are comfortable in the country, to feel that more money, improved infrastructure, high endurance levels, and strong tourism can and should be combined. Our donations and income proposals bear that out. I got it. I got it. U.S.R.A. to approve them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u9	A respectable president. I'm going to submit the opinion of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee... with a change in bill... to the Council on the Council of the Council now on the 3rd Environment. The point. The committee discussed the matter between 2 and 3. and had Björn Rögnvaldsson and Sigurður Helgi Helga Helgason of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, Skúli Magnússon of Iceland's Court of Justice, Gylfi Arnbjörnsson of the Allied Union of Iceland and Hannes G. Sigurðsson from the Union of Industrial Science. The Committee made comments on the adjustment of the majority of the Committee's proposals at Article 1. The bill presented at 2 Peter 3: 1. a charge which states that the Commission should be a administrative committee. In particular, the comments suggested that administrative committees generally make decisions about human rights and duties and that such committees fall under administrative law, No. 37/1993. The majority of the committee agree with these statements but considers it important to determine that administrative legislation should be implemented as appropriate, as well as information legislation, no. 140/2012. The majority suggest a change of material. At the same time, the committee suggests a change of terms to the latter part of Article 1. in order to address the full-time employment rates of the members of the Committee for Decisions that are listed there. Then the commission suggests that the judges of Social Social Affairs fall under the decision of a collective body of pay and other remuneration to further ensure the independence of the court. The committee discussed regulations four. the bill and the court that the Board of juries should always take into account the general development of a professional man in a labour market. The majority of the Committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes I have made orally and can be considered for a team in the leading wing of the section. But briefly about what we're doing here, a respectable president, with these changes in the CREEP Council. The aims are twofold, one to increase the number of people who take pay according to standard contracts. There have been about 580 people under the adviser, and they are now reduced to 150 or something. Another goal is that those who are unable to negotiate pay in the usual way because of the nature of the work, which is said to those under the advice, have more access to matters when making decisions about pay and their salary than at present. Third, which, perhaps the most important and close to this bill, puts much emphasis on changing the dresser's procedures, that we make it clear and know how a dresser board operates in his decisions, what it takes into account, and that we have it clearly, as shown in Article 4. the bill that I am very happy with, and we especially stop at, that the board should make sure that the pay it decides will be in accordance with society's salary at any given time. In order to accomplish this, a decision to monitor and evaluate collective labour agreements and general pay development should be made. A respectable president. I'm not going to keep this for a while but suggest that the adjustment proposals of the greater part be accepted. I'd like to thank the Committee for the discussion, it's been very thorough. I want to thank all members of the committee for taking time and in various parts of the discussion about the best setting for a dress code. I think we've come to a good conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u10	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank a supervisor more for his story and say thank you. A senator to the committee for her work. This has been a very informative and helpful discussion. I'd also like to welcome what is stated in the b-communication proposal from the greater part of the Committee that the Commission's Council shall abide by the regulations of administration, as well as the requirements of information laws, which have now been made and can be ensured by these laws at all times. I'm glad to hear it. I'm glad it's on this list. I still have some comments on the bill, i.e. Change of proposed options. They also focus on increasing transparency in the activities of the Committee. I now give a great deal of satisfaction to the Commission information legislation so that the public and the media and others concerned now have an uncluttered right to seek information from a dresser body, a court that has not been clear in the legal process so far. I'm glad that this law has come in. In terms of the administrative law, I am very personally glad that I sent on behalf of the Council of Porta Information, which I thought could fall under the jurisdiction to the Council of Valsa without having received an answer yet. Now I think I'm better informed about my rights, since more part of the Economic and Business Committee is agreed with me that the CHECE should comply with administrative laws as appropriate. It is a cause for rejoicing. I find it strange, however, that the objective of this bill is to increase the transparency to the Council of Mensarium that no better sound basis has been provided for improving the terms that the Qualification Council should be published publicly and that the counsel should be kept of interest and published publicly. The minor opinion I have suggested has changed several times since the last discussion, including because of the various comments and discussions that have taken place, both within the committee and outside, it bears that mark. The first point to look at the first change proposal, where I thought I was asking for a so - called penguin with my demand that, in the advice of a sludged person with a certain education and proper education, which I had specified especially where to be. I want to thank you. A senator for that indication, and I have changed my proposal to the point that it is rather larger in society for who can take that excellent advice. Therefore, it is recommended that stewards be educated and/or experienced appropriately. Is it really something that I think many in the councilroom might be inclined to have, an education, and an experience that would benefit them in their profession? This is usually desirable when drafted in advice and mentioned. Similarly, I have received indications that it was not clear enough how a dresser board was supposed to publish its interest registration. I've made that clear. It's this way, with President's permission: (c) Why is it important for elders to make sure that their application of the product should be made public and accessible, and the rules set there for themselves? In the opinion of the committee, the minority, I state that the Supreme Court's registration could be used as a guide to how such interest logs might appear, although the circumstances of the two parties are not entirely comparable, they can certainly be taken into account. So it's in my opinion. Finally, I think there must be considerable sound base in this room or in many parts of the community for the meeting of a board to be published in public and accessible. I'm sure it's possible to observe what's on the program at any given moment, in general, in the council's activities, at what time it meets and what its meetings usually look like. A respectable president. My proposals actually go out to add even more the transparency that we all talk about when it comes to advice. It is simply by requiring that we have the best information about those working in this council and making a salary for ourselves and the other nation's top officials, that we know the stakeholders, that we know how their meetings generally look, all the way skeletons, and that we have some kind of irresponsible law that those who command should have education and/or experience in their work. All of this seems to me to be important adjustments, so I suggest that they be accepted. I'd like to measure again again by following the regulations of government law as well as the terms of information laws, because I find the discussion a little significant. Finally, I just want to talk about the fact that I feel that it is all too fast for this vote. I don't see the grounds why we have to end this case before New Year's Eve. Among the reasons I feel that we do not settle this case before the year is that we were in a certain ideological debate about the Council of the Commission, a bulldresser's advice was neither a bird nor a fish, and it is not solely determined whether a dresser's council is conducted, whether it is anything else, a special snowflake such as men sometimes talk about, whether it's part of the legal authority, or some sort of a court of law, and then how a court of court. I find it very interesting if the answer to the basic question of advice is not clear that we are making a new overall set of advice on dressers here. I don't think I'm going to be able to control everything, Madam President, and this case is going to be over. I suggest that it be solved with the changes in the memory of the part, and especially with the b-communications of the part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u11	A respectable president. I would like to express special pleasure in the way changes have taken place. A senator has changed his conversation. Today, we no longer have a narrow, rigid definition of the background that the members of the council need, but we now have a more open definition of their eligibility. Me, like a whisk. A senator, is a great amateur of open and useful management and that the public has access to as much data from the administrative department as possible. So I don't see anything wrong with the public presentation of a dresser's meeting, even though I doubt there's a lot of wind in it. I feel that the mass is more likely to be in the bill, where a dresser's council is made to support the decision - making process more accurately. That's where I think the victory's won. However, it is likely to add data to the table that is accessible to the public. I'm just gonna stick around the interest logbook for a second. In the foundation, I think it's right that those who can handle with official power, we at least keep in mind whether or not we should make a record of our personal interests. Besides, we have a natural administrative system. In this case, I ask myself, " Would an article like this cover an example? ' A senator mentioned last round that if lawyers put a dresser's council in order, whether it was some kind of conflict of interest with the judges they'd prefer. [[The president calls.]] I don't see that we can, in any way, control the legal problem, either this or any other.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u12	A respectable president. Perhaps I'd like to make it a matter of concern that more of the Council of Elders are employed lawyers. I did not come to that conclusion until I had looked up the search engine Google all the names of those sitting in a sledgehammer and checking through even some of the results as well. I think it would be normal for me to have the main information of those sitting on a dresser's website. Actually, this interest registration is the primary objective. With this change of motion, I suggest that the advice of a fool be self-importantly determined exactly how it will establish its interest log, it might take into account how the Supreme Court intends to publish its interest logistics. I don't think advice may be as important as the courts of the country, but quite seriously important, though. I find it very normal and really necessary to present which jobs other than a seat in the advice of their conquistador and the main connections they enjoy. Therefore, I feel that in view of the decisions made by a dresser board, it is more necessary and desirable to be available on the side of a panel so that there is not a list of names, such as it is not particularly difficult to copy and paste into a search window but it takes time and is not informative. I think that's normal, given the questions that have come up in many places, and not just with lawyers working there. It is also a question of whether it matters altogether or whether it actually endangers the neutrality of courts. I haven't done it properly. But at least I would have wanted to see it now and know it now. I believe that the interest logs can deliver that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u13	A respectable president. I hope Mr. President, the law-educated man he is, well. A senator and the lawyer, forgive me if I join the senator and say that I don't necessarily think that I would like to have lawyers in every bed in institutions, councils, or committees, I'll say to the philosophical man, who doesn't have the same access to advice as lawyers seem to do. I'm still taking into account whether this interest logs toward what the courts have or what we members of the Parliament have necessarily been necessary is not enough, is it not? A senator noted that the information of a dresser body on those sitting in the council is more detailed without any list of anything they do outside the board, everything they have, and everything they are. I like to be able to visit a dresser's home page or any public device, and see exactly the background of people, what kind of people have been collected there, and if this is just as a pack as uniform as a dresser's advice at the moment. The practical registration that such a person would not necessarily put his arms around it. It might be rather, and that is exactly what we do with the proposal of a greater part of the Committee, that the Qualification Council is clearly under government laws, that we have the appropriate conditions. The inability of the Governing Body to determine certain groups will likely come to the council at every decision. So beyond that change, I ask myself, " How much do I work with a more thorough interest log? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to put this in parallel examples: The Aggressary is published publicly in which the principal non-employee work is carried out as advisers. The meetings of a dresser's Council are published publicly, where the appropriate conditions of the sage council are addressed. Then we may find out when advice groups of men actually decide to give up because of their interests or not. This could be compared with the existing interest logistics. This wouldn't be possible if we didn't have these fine threes I'm suggesting in my move because it would be much harder to get rid of all this information, but it would still be easier for us to become in the field of information, but there would still be some spins while we could make it all available and nice on the dresser's website. It wouldn't take a very long time to sort it out. In my opinion, eco-efficiency is just an important tool for the general public to establish that the public's interests are being developed and that there are no special interests involved in the decision of a host or other important institutions in this country. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u15	A respectable president. I'm not here to give an answer. I'd like to thank you for your speech. A senator thanking her for her share in the work of the Committee. I'd also like to review what we do there when we tried to put the advice under information law. It was for some people's minds quite clear, as we were. A senator's remember, but in praxish it was not as absolute, as a certain body of council members in this house could be tried when mismanagement of the Council of Mensa. We considered whether to install the Commission's position as a administrative committee, but we failed to do so and decided to retrace the hearing of a board under administrative law, including information law. This was the product of good work and was especially a contribution. Senator. I want to thank you for that. Just because of what happened earlier, because we're trying to get a vote under administrative law, there's some proper rules that I'd think we should do as well. I'd like to ask you what. A senator for her b-aided proposal. Of course, you don't see anything wrong with a committee like a dresser's advice to publish your meetings on a web site, but I would like to ask if she knows that a similar committee will do so, and probably do something, if there is a law to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u16	Mr. President. I want to thank you for the answer and for the opportunity to make this all right. I don't know exactly what the ruling committees have for order right now. I did, however, sit in Pirata's project, where we publish all our meetings, and it's customary in governments, counsels, and committees of companies, I know. The meetings usually include who are attending meetings and when, what the program is, and if any are disfellowshipped, either because they need to go somewhere else or because of some kind of talent. By immersing the application of the European Commission's legislation, we for the first time require that we do so, although she may have been informal in practice under the advice of the Board of Elders, although I do understand that at all times the administrative laws have been possible to provide some kind of guidelines, not necessarily national regulations, that would be appropriate. What I believe is to change by the public presentation of a dresser's meeting council is simply that it will be easier for the public to understand what happens at meetings, who sits at them, and for what reason people will be off meeting, for the sake of skill or for the sake of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u17	Mr. President. This case has been from the beginning a little trap, I would say. I just appreciate political evidence that there's a little trap. There's a problem, there's elections, voters who are also sitting in the board and taking care of these matters making a decision to raise the salary of members of Congress - I was told that the increase was 43%, but I've been talking about 47%, at least somewhere in that year. Of course, people, the community, teachers, are letting their jobs go because of this, and members and ministers are asked what the problem is, what they intend to do about it. Bjarni Benediktsson makes it very clear by saying: "I put up a bill on a dresser board, it's just not approved, it's kind of less to blame. Then he puts it up again, gets others to take him along. The issue is not as strong as the requirement not to exceed the general salary development that is exactly what a man's adviser would do. It's not as strong in this bill. The committee has been tried, that is probably why. The manager is going to counter this, after ASI and SA came to the Committee and the Ministry - they wanted the hearing into the legal file that has been made known. But it wasn't inside, they said it was a good thing, it wasn't as strong as it was on the other bill. It may have been fixed, and then it's good, but let's see the future because, as it's said there, it seems to be even weaker, but okay, maybe it's just been made up in the committee's opinion. The Council made decisions on a day of elections to increase the salary of members of Congress far beyond the general market salary development. Even if we go back to 2006, this is at least a 13% increase over general pay development, so the board of dressers made an illegal decision. The law says that they must not make decisions that could disrupt the collective agreements of the majority of pay people, which is clearly what ASI and SA said was happening, that if the Allied people did not reverse or reject this trend, as ASI said, they would. But then they agreed that there was a solution to a workforce available at the Generals. Now there is a question of whether this law is so strong, but now it is, I would say, a law broken, and most likely I will press charges. I've talked to my lawyer again, and we've started to work on suing this decision that was made on a day of election to raise the salary of the senators so much. The charge is usually less strong if anything happens in the meantime to reduce that salary back to the general trend in the labour market. If that were to happen, I wouldn't have much of a problem because it had already been corrected, then members of the council would eventually have come to that site but would not be going beyond the general pay market. That'd be good. And it is possible to do so. Now, I cannot tell you what was discussed at the Presidency Meeting today because there is a confidential agreement, and I will see if I can't have confidence in it, but I can at least tell you what our chairman signed in a letter to the Presidency Committee with the presidents of all other categories. It says, by permission of the President: A panel now has a bill on the Council of Slurpee. This involves a major change in who is to be heard under the authority, as well as in the other aspects of the work. Underlined presidents refer to the World Council Presidency Committee that the Committee also adopts a review of the terms on the cost of Congress, i.e. In view of the criticism that has been observed at the votes of state council officials in the state field, the decision of the U.S. Council on the salary of the U.S. Marshal's 30th C.E. ......... The heads of all groups therefore refer to the Presidency Committee to respond to this situation, including that the Presidency Committee could review terms on the cost of Congress, etc. Then I'll continue, with President's permission: It is recommended that these measures be performed, i.e. The bill and the changes to the regulations on the labour pay made by the Generals will prove to be the basis for general agreement on the General Remuneration of Congress. That would be one way. As men have said, it is not good for the generals to take the law into the decision of the Council of Elders. The principle is that this is not good. On the other hand, while a council decides the salary of members of Congress, it is for members of the Presidency Committee who decide other elections for members of Congress. This is quite clear, and we know, and we can fully confirm that at a time when a decision was not to increase the salary of members and they were under general employment development, there were all sorts of terms set on the prime committee, new elections inserted, and raised, so the overall pay level and the hearts were higher because the salary was not being increased by members of the Parliament. The company was elevated to the Presidency Committee, so the prime committee can respond correctly. And what about responding? The General passed the law in its own time that Congress pay no more than general labour development. Council made a decision, including In her numbers, the Ministry of finance said that it was 13% higher. If, according to the existing legislation, we are to be included within the general pay period, the exact same prime committee may reduce these terms, which were raised at the time because the pay was not taken up. Now the pay has gone up, and the terms can be lowered so that the total salary of the Parliament does not exceed the overall pay of the labour market. It would be a pleasure to know that if the Council's Presidency Committee was to do so, it would be the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u18	A respectable president. Now, I'd like to begin by saying that I'm not here or any other senator in order to defend the decision made by the Council of Men Askers on Last Day. On the contrary, this bill is being cleaned up so that nothing else will happen again. I just want to tie it up. There are no opposing parties here. For the first time, the presidents, or presidents of all classes, were alone in this respect. But then you fall off the train. There are a number of reasons why I'm not going to make an assessment. I just want to say, about these changes in the law, we can be sure, as stated in Article 4. This bill, that we are strengthening the fact that advice of fools does not behave in the way it was done on the final day of the election. It's gonna be illegal for the council to decide in these jumps the way they were then. It should be followed, taken into account, it should be observed, it should always be followed in the pay market. That's where we're strengthening it. It could be understood. A senator says that we are somehow weakening this law, and it is simply wrong. And I want to keep it up. We've had good cooperation, members of the House of Pirates, and a council member. A senator certainly has done so there. Hence, the extent of the comparison should be welcomed. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a good reason to make this decision after the senator's speech. Otherwise, I have nothing more to check on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u19	Mr. President. When the current legislation on the dresser council was adopted in 2006, but it's about to cancel now and accept new laws that are very similar to that of the paper and the exposé are not included, it's decided: let's take these laws from the old dress code into the dress code. That's not done now. Among other things, it says that the agreements of the majority of the employees must not be a threat. It is a very strong law. It was particularly charged, with the permission of the president, in the paper with the bill that is currently in the law for a collective body: ◯ That the Kjarasing agreements of the German wage contracts are not at risk and thus poses a threat to the economy. This is the stronger law. It is no longer present if we accept these laws. Another one that's going down a little bit, with the permission of a president. It's on page 8. 7 in the bill as it was assigned, as well as all the legal data in the report: a judge should therefore take into account employment policies and not shape them. In other words, the law of this law was designed to serve as a form of general setting for the decisions of Kjara judgment based on efforts to ensure both internal and external harmony in the decisions made by Kjara. The bill on the Council of Mensula, as explained here, follows the same policy and, in fact, is established by the second paragraph 8 paragraph. for the bill, to be held in this room ------There is a particularly clear word on this subject...How do you know it? These exposé data are gone. So it's not as strong.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u20	A respectable president. An essay from the Ministry is not the same as a law. We're discussing a new law that we're putting in the World Congress that is stronger than ever before. It's kind of drumming the other thing, I think, and it's common. But I hear it's important. It's very important to a senator. That's why it was important for us to come to the viewpoint of the members of the committee that the greater part came along in the 3rd district. As we make clear in a legal committee program, we have specifically discussed Article 4. and validate her importance. Thus, all available devices have been fully armed. We're carrying belts and bracelets in this regard, and we can't have this any more clearly, so we can get it out. But that's what we're at. A senator may disagree, but I say, and I insist on making a law we set here in the conference hall emblazoned a ministry paper. Absalut.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-10.u21	Mr. President. I agree with the senator. Of course, the law contains a series of articles. However, when these laws are being interpreted, a report must be made. And still there is this same law, with the permission of the President: the Council of Justice should always take into account the general development of a jugler in a labour market. But what's missing is the petition, a paper I read earlier, in a previous answer. These very strong rules are missing on what this population is, so there is no risk of disrupting the collective agreements of the majority of the employees, and therefore the threat to the economy, that this is a frame around the rest. It's gone. Here comes out of nowhere. A senator has read it before, but it's all in pars. Now I'll read the paragraph before that, with the permission of a president: ▪ When deciding the pay will be decided by the competent authority, it should be taken into account that these are in accordance with society's salary at any given time. I've heard what. A senator gives this: in accordance with pay in society. But see: The salary, the advice, can decide that the wage is a remuneration of the same person, which is the exact equivalent. That is exactly what they did in their decision right now. They made a decision to raise their salary in accordance with their inner harmony, the inner conformity of the Supreme Court, which had been received in contrast with the outside conformity with the rest of the community. Conforming with pay does not solve this problem. And if I continue there, with president's permission: Follow-up and evaluate is very mild when the point to make is inadequate. Because they did now, watched and evaluated, but they simply concluded that they could still increase the salary of senators at least 13%, according to the Ministry of finance, in excess of the general labour market.
