ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u1	There have been two letters from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms asking for deadlines to give written answers to the application for this request. 1,137, about a meeting, from the Brynhildur of Pétursdóttir's daughter and on a petition. 1201, on the results of the 2016 hardware contract, from the Svandís's Svavarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u2	A respectable president. I'm going again to talk about the tourism. By the time spring is up and the stream of travel is getting heavier, I am deeply concerned about how the situation is and how I really feel that governments have been out of control in this business. I'm not going to belittle the challenge of welcoming all these tourists, and we've been sleeping at the guard for years. You read repeatedly about the news that tourists do not respect restrictions, shutdowns, and other things that have been put in place. I wondered if at some point we need not seriously consider guilty of such conduct, when people even go and get stuck to their cars, and so forth because they simply do not respect the meanings they have been given. There are also reports of wheelhouses being rented, and the wheelhouses are basically shut down in the back and the back, in the outposts of roads and outbacks. This is a problem that needs to be addressed. Of course, there should be room for all this diversity, but we need to be ready to face the challenge. I'm really worried about this, and I've kept talking about the toilets too, as if I were completely obsessed with them. It only matters that the basic services exist, and when I have discussed this with a minister, I get the answers, in fact, that these are just exaggerations, that the media are blowing up the problem, so I'm starting to ask my friends, guides, when I see them whether it's not a real problem. Without exception, I get the answers. There's a lot of things to think about, and I want to say I'm worried about this and I want the government to spit in their hands completely. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u3	V.E.G. President. During the past weekend, the council provided a bill for the treatment of credits that depend on the specific limitations of the so-called national property. I'm going to use this opportunity to express my joy in this matter and at the same time commend the council for their hard work and for their efficiency, cooperation, and solidarity. Here we were taking safe, cautious, but very important steps in the direction of emissions. Inevitably, someone would say, and necessary to trust the basis for free trade between countries with Icelandic dollars so that such free transactions can become on that basis, as in previous steps and measures of emissions, without threatening financial and financial stability, with the negative consequences for Icelandic employment, economics, and public living. That's absolutely basic, as in previous actions. The matter here came to the council very well thought - out and prepared, as tested by the primes that turned toward the stability and stability tax, and the council covered the process and processing of the times in a similar way. Work hard. The Economic Commission was a very good and large, solidarity with the Commission on the processing of the situation. Then the commission received reviews and explanations of the leading institutions and counselors, such as the Federal Bank and the Ministry. A respectable president. We have so far followed this route from oceans in a small safe step toward a certain extent. This was a series of steps, and surely it was designed to provide the basis for further steps toward emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u4	V.E.G. President. Recently, the F.S.S.S. gave an opinion that the National Bank's method of selling 31.2% of its holdings at Borg was not entirely coordinated with the normal and sound business practices of a financial market, as it says, by the permission of a president. This is because of an excellent declaration, but what attracted my attention is that it is published on March 31, this year, while the payroom was held in November 2014, and I'm not aware that in any way the FDA has made comments to those sales until now. I wondered what modesty is in the case of the UN because there is another issue I have applied to now that I believe is perfectly worth the consideration of the SEC. It's so in 52rd. track No. 161/2002 says that those conducting financial institutions should not have been judged in the past ten years before a criminal act under public penal law, competitive law, community law, etc. In fact, in one of the country's business banks is a manager, but at his time in a second job in 2008, 2013, and 2014, this company was imposed on a administrative ticket for repeated violations of competitive law. These are responsible for another billion dollars. Now you must ask, because the bank involved is in a trade process. Is it possible that the bank's sale price could be damaged by this fact? You must ask, is this really not the case? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to express my concern about the human affairs that have come up here in the country recently, in the Viking Valley, and now at a hotel in this city. It is obvious that Iceland is not overlooked when victims of human halls are involved, and I challenge the public to be alert to this threat, which is nothing more than modern slavery. Mansal is a multinational, organized offense that respects no borders. The Icelandic government is involved in international cooperation against such activities. This has been done, among other things, by taking up international commitments, on the United Nations Palermo Convention, which requires action against the man trade, and on the other hand, the European Council's agreement on measures that went into effect in 2012. I have personally taken a committee of the Northern Council to Latvia to discuss these matters with the Federal authorities, but in the Baltic States, among our cousins, human halls are, unfortunately, endemic. Interestingly, the woman who was kept in a hotel in this town did not realize her rights at all until she received a brochure from ASVI about the rights of people in the workplace and then decided to go to the police. This shows how important it is for everyone to stay awake, to employees in the companies, and to others who suspect that something abnormal may be on the move. I repeat, most respected president, that I challenge the citizens of this country to be alert to this indiscretion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u6	Mr. President. Now we present ourselves as so-called pleasure and dissatisfactions among companies, i.e. A work-real check at the SFR. In part, it refers to the official's office in the capital area, which runs at the bottom of the second consecutive year's work search. This is because the pressures there are not acceptable, with respect to housing and other things. We've had reports of a long wait for passports and driver's licenses and so forth; people wait and take numbers and even number 90 or 100. This is, of course, completely unannounced, because they need people, and they also need a situation. I've only been asking around and there's been some answers coming from the plot to move to the county who was promised when the office was united. There have been gradual transfers, but it turns out that the Ministry is not ready to give up anything to strengthen this office as it was planned for this union. Then, too, it was revealed that man is not sufficient, that the pressure is intense, and that people are literally weighed down by things that are not acceptable. This is true of the politicians, of which the police, which is inbred and submeditated, have little to do with the problem. This is where the government has not done enough, and it's obvious that it needs to be done better. Once the office was united, it was reported that it should be done better, changed housing, etc., but nothing happens. These are the people who are working for land and nation, and we are supposed to do much better in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u7	A respectable president. Betrayal eventually comes out. A member of the General Assembly was at a meeting of the Board of Directors and Observers this morning informing us that there may be evidence to prove to us what was being done to the arrival of a German bank in the privatization of the Icelandic banks. When the Parliament's budget examined it some ten years ago, it was the primary lack of information that could be exposed to cheating and pigry. That is why it is fundamentally and most important for the council to provide now, new legislation on research committees, and enforcing a committee to review the role of Hauck & Aufäuser, the German bank, to deal with the privatization. Of course, it is too soon to state what information it is or what it will lead us to do. But we have claimed that there is reason to believe that this German private bank was not a real buyer for an object in the Bank. Rather, it was an opportunity for the Icelandic person and that this foreign investment, which was so called and used to justify this group's initiative in the bank, was no foreign investment, but it was Icelandic money and even sold from the same state banks as it was being given to them. It is fundamental to be determined to be as quick as possible to inform the entire nation's public on how this was being conducted and that the person going to that study will get all the resources and employees he needs to have that information on the tables of the bank as well as any of us, since it is the core of the conspiracy to find the personal interest in the banks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u8	V.E.G. President. Early intervention is important both for those in need of service and for society all. Early intervention is the reaction to early disorders of children's lives, training them, and satisfying services. Research has shown that early intervention is important. In many cases, those who enjoy its support or service have been very successful, feeling better, and many of those who later become more active in the community. It is important that those with any disorder or diagnosis receive assistance as soon as possible. Therefore, it is important that we go to the assignment and see which ways are possible for children and young people who are suspected of having any disorder, to receive service as soon as possible. It also includes the vital role that the family can support the child who has a condition or chronic illness. That's the way it is in society today. The scope of this support may well be high, but it is very important, and it can be returned safely. Those who enjoy abundant support and loyal backlands in sickness or in some type of disorder often have better results. It is important to support those who are in such a situation. A respectable president. So I have to say that I don't know a parent who wouldn't give all the money for his child's not having to deal with serious disorders or illness.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u9	V.E.G. President. At present, there are many positive reports of the nation's standard of living. No one is aware that the economic outlook in Iceland is bright at this time and that the economy will be followed by a continuous economy on this land for eight years. The growth is a source of support in the economy, and we see its manifestation in the increase in salary costs over the past losses. Remuneration has increased as soon as inflation is maintained. The public finds the effect on increased debridement practices, while domestic debt has dropped dramatically in recent years and divorce rates have declined dramatically. The household planning rate has also fallen substantially. Obviously, government penalties have succeeded and have strengthened the position of the citizens of the land as planned. The state's situation has been greatly improved by a successful emissions programme and the foreign status of the nation's population is the best in at least Half a century. The rest of the season has a total of 40 billion dollars. use of health care. The government's financial program allows for a significant increase in health costs in the coming years so that they will reach more than 30 billion dollars. higher in 2021. A lot of work has been put in order to create new housing systems and balance tenants and landlords' status, but I expect the General of the Council to agree with three of the four prime managers in the coming days, i.e. rent, general apartment, and housing. The bill on housing partners has already been approved. Surely we can agree that in just three years this is a remarkable achievement. Economic growth and stability benefit everyone. In view of this, I don't think it would have been possible to accept elections this fall. I believe Iceland's interests are best paid by allowing the current government to complete the ideal period, that it will continue to carry on with urgent projects -- and preferably the next, yes - and lay further groundwork for further improvement on land and development in the whole country. [[And the next one.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u10	Mr. President. I'd like to join a fist as Mr. Björgvin Guðmundsson writes about the interest of the elderly. He has been a fighter for the improved interest of elderly ones for a long time, and I can accept most of his fistulas. He says, with President's permission: Since the dosage of the elderly and the micropuncher is low, it takes part with the other in taxes, so there will be more famines that cannot survive with those who only earn money from public security. In Norway, the pensions of the elderly are tax-free and, of course, should be the same here. A single senior citizen in Iceland has 207,000 dollars. in a month after taxes from a insurance institution, but a married person or a partner has 185,000 expenses. after tax a month. Each person sees that it is impossible to live a decent life out of these sums. The single person has to pay off his $40,000 pension. I'll pay the taxes and the one who's living together or married must pay $27,000. The General Assembly and the Government must take a firm, large - scale pension of these groups. So he says, which I don't quite agree with: It is not yet for the council, and it is due to be chosen in the fall. This has to happen fast before the election. I don't trust these groups to run this course. That's why it's time to vote right away, but not after a year, like a whale. A senator talked about it before I did. It must be chosen quickly, for in the land the standard of living is getting worse and worse for the elderly, for the poor, for the young. The country is being spared by reducing its taxes when it is being bruised with taxes from the old people who receive 207,000 dollars. per month, or 185,000 times. What's that song? This shows the priorities of the government. It is not for the benefit of the elderly and the poor, who have little income or for the benefit of young Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u11	A respectable president. I make a silent note of this program, the activities of the council, in order to draw attention to two fine matters that are waiting to be arranged. So it is that on December 17, 2008, sailors signed a collective agreement, that is, seven and a half years ago, when sailors and vagrants signed a collective agreement. That agreement came out at the end of 2011, so four and a half fishermen have been uncontracted. During winter and indeed for the past few years, fishermen and evangelists have been talking and trying to reach a conclusion. As far as I know, that deal is over and over. What may most stand for them is their waiting for an answer from the Council. They ask for money to be treated like a day's money for others. Here is a very small bill, which does not exceed any members of the council in which these matters are handled, i.e. bill to correct a change in income tax law through subsequent changes, seamen's food money. It suggests that seamen's food money will be treated as a day's money for pilots, aviators, as well as members of the general council, as well as for other people who need to travel and work outside their home. I trust that, and kindly pray that the subject will come as soon as possible. The other issue is the modeling of cluster policy, a convergence proposal to form a team to shape public cluster policy on how to promote the national musculoskeletal systems in cooperation with industry, research and educational institutions etc. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u12	A respectable president. It's interesting to hear here from individual senators of the Company, especially why. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, who believes that it was impossible to make an election in the fall. I wondered if she's given that indication to the highest degree. As a result, the prime minister was Jesus and the highest. The secretary of finance who presented these plans to the nation by his own initiative at a famous meeting held in the stairway at the Hall of Congress in the middle of the tornado, which ended with the highest order. The captain of the army, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, resigned. As we approach elections that all of us agree to be close to, except for a few voices in town and one of the senators of the Action Party, it is important that we use our political vision to clear out the main projects ahead. Gallup's new position shows that more than a portion of Icelandic households collect debt or spend more time with busy, poor families are many, if defined by the national pulse. We also know that according to the new findings of Unicef, there are 6,100 children in the United States who suffer in want, including 1,600 children who suffer a significant shortage. It is not enough to stand here and beat yourself to the point that the public is experiencing the economic benefits when so many poor people still live in very poor poverty, which is a disgrace to society. As is true of the United Nations, making the plan to eliminate poverty must be the first and first task of a rich society with self - respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u13	A respectable president. I would like to use this opportunity to discuss the position of young people in the housing market. I had asked for a special discussion here at the Assembly Hall, but she was taken out, since she felt too much like a special discussion. paritaprevir They're Ólafsdóttir. At least I don't think so. It has been made clear that the government has a special policy in mind. That's fine, but it doesn't work out in my opinion when you look at the bigger picture. Young people whom we like to be students and educated are happy to get the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture in here can have 2.4 million. K. a year's income and not a year's savings. Then we'll jump at 930. K. free-paying goal. To afford an apartment that costs 25 million. K. 3.7 billion should be provided. K. An individual who can only save to tens ofs. K. During a month, which is realistic when you're on such a small salary as students, it takes you 26 years to collect for a down payment. Like what the situation is now, when the rent is completely out of control, we see how the policy is, how student loans are calculated. Among other things, they are at free markets. In the case of young people and housing, something needs to be replaced, especially since the loans calculated for housing are confined to the number of units and to the students' gardens alone. So they do not reflect the general market situation. I believe, therefore, that the government is putting a stone in the street of young people, especially when considering that young people have not received any correction on their affairs. [[The president calls.]] So it is time for the government to start showing the cards when it comes to them because young people also need to survive like each other. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u14	A respectable president. Under the protection of a powerful seaside, innovation and technology have spread throughout the country. We'll see it all over the country. Probeed jobs in this article are many, and the article itself has made progress, and today it is sustainable and productive. In Iceland, marine roads are driven by forward - looking, capable people with ambition and faith in the future. Today, the expense of the construction, the construction station, and the Western Union are three seaships for experimenting fishing at the Ruyjanes ridge. The ships are the mind, Home Island and Ice. Scientists estimate that undiscovered fish stocks in the depths of the ocean can be an enormous source of the world's need for protein. Numbers up to 10 billion tons have been heard based on limited research, but no one knows the right thing, since studies are small and absent. [[Up front.]] The world's food chest may not be opened yet. Scientists from the Oceanographic Institute say that the southern side of Smoke is hugely high in fish. They have tried to hunt, but they have not had the right fishing tools to design and adjust for these tests. However, echo - language readings show that vast amounts of fish are moving there. Clearly, more research is needed before hunting can begin. The cost of fishing vessels in the South is about 1.5 million. K. daily. Thus, the total cost at eight to ten days of your trip is 1,21⁄215 million. A., overall, it can be up to 45 million. The crew on each ship are ten men. When and by the means of which the harvest can be used, all equipment on board the ships, land management, and storage equipment will be adjusted. The following will be examined for products that are likely to be at one time of flour and light. But will there be other ways to make this work? It will be fully investigated. A respectable president. Here are some tests that will take three to eight years. How should we as a nation approach this assignment? If it fails, it will carry the entire cost. [[The president calls.]] If it succeeds, it will be important to tax new fishing agencies and thus soon be forgotten as part of the pioneers. [[The president calls.]] Or do we want to create a setting where professional life takes risks, put money on research, and reap if goods and skills work together?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u15	Mr. President. Recently, financial programs were put forward for five years from the government. It's very good, and it's gonna take effort, and it's gonna be a good thing to make such a long plan. I noticed in the financial program that there are about 30 billion people being added to health care in the country in those years. But when you look at the various teams, like, e.g. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the southern part of the United States, I and I faced a challenge with fire - truckers in early May, where they expressed overwhelming concern about ever - increasing pressures on the health - care workers there. There is no need to be buried in the South, and in the South, there are eight to nine most popular tourist attractions in the country, meaning the increase in tourists. There are some 50 to 660 percent of the tourists who arrive in the country outside more than 50% of the country's own inhabitants who travel the country. Sadly, the budget for this category in the South does not depend on the huge increase that has been made. A large population has been built in the Southland Medical Center and if you continue to look at it, you seem to be leaving work where it is very bad. So I challenge the budget to act quickly and deposit money because, as any projector suggests, the number of tourists will even increase 500,000 this year. It tells itself, if last year's CIA report is examined, that there is a lot of trouble and especially in South America. Of 16 deaths last year, six were in the Southland, and that is more than many words.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u16	President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A minister of education for wanting to talk to me and to a body of Congress about the status and legality of the media around the local media, but our little community makes the media of the environment a delicate ecosystem in which cross - possession and friendship and family ties are almost always an appendage. The Parliament establishes laws, including media law, and is obliged to monitor the European Commission. It has been shown that laws on a media committee need a review so that the committee can live up to the role it was given, which is now at the highest level. Secretary of education. So I want to see if it's the highest. A minister does not agree with me on the need to review laws to support the media around here. I would like to focus on the authority of a media committee regarding two factors, the editorial independence of the media and the possession of the media. The role of a media committee is to monitor the role of media law, including ensuring that the evangelical independence of journalists is respected. Who doesn't remember the article "The Trustee, " by permission of President Magnús Halldórsson, former businessman of Stopr 2 and Visis: The worst part is that Jón Ásgeir has recently tried, in a few ways, to put pressure on journalists by bringing the complaints, on the basis of the true and legal news about him, on the members of which he is personally involved, to the management of the company, and to the highest rulers. Jón Ásgeir seems normal, as this has happened repeatedly, but in view of the fact that he is closely linked to the holding of the company, for which his wife is registered as the largest owner and manager, he should think twice before this is done. More recent examples are the songs placed on journalists of the Morning newspaper that try to impose political opinions on people by their boss, a man who is known to have in his power to call the media and writers on the carpet if he, then prime minister, did not consider their subject. President. Sadly, the interference between the politicians and the chief rulers of the media has become repugnant, traditional practice, as we have fallen upon international art of freedom of media, according to a new report by journalists without borders. The chairman of the budget board threatened as the head of a financier to the state of the press that financiers might be impaired if the media did not behave according to the members of that body and former prime minister, why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, has regularly called journalists on the carpet at the Board of Directors. But Sigurjón M. Egilsson recently wrote the following, with the permission of a president: The former secretary had a field of diagnostics in his department. [...] That diagnostic department got busy sorting out what I said and writing as well as some others. That's what I know from the first hand. They called me on the carpet. Last fall, Björn Þorláksson an interesting article on a fourth power. Among other things, it says by permission of the president: It is up to those in charge, and the public gives protection to the media. Whether, when, or how to address the supreme government publicly, the media would be an unchanging organization or rather an extension of power. At times, money and government officials are threatened when there is a conflict between rulers and the media. In order to gain greater control over the discussion, some money costs up a fourth power, buy a multisession medium just to put it down. Another example is to buy a media medium, hire new boss and then soften or modify former criticism editorialism. President. These factors are to be taken into account by media laws and agencies that monitor the media. Everyone must agree that the media is free and independent. To make informed decisions, laws and institutions need to ensure that the public is informed. It must then ensure that the media are truly independent, their real possession, their real identity is actually behind property or loans for business and property. After the last total election, an ASE report was published. It describes concern for the integration of the media in a country where it is considered a threat to chemical diversity. Governments are called upon to consider further measures to limit compression to prevent loneliness and conflicting policies and to see if there are rules to limit the impact of certain individuals, companies or groups on one or more of the media market. The review board then suggests that the position of the media committee will be supported by increased authority and its role made clearer so that it can follow the media. Take care of the highest. Ministers respond to the proposals of the SE and set a real limit for the press market compression and breaking the law on the spread of property?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u17	A respectable president. In the beginning, I want to thank you for what I said. A candidate for this discussion is clearly important. Undisputed is the importance of the media in the community, whether seen in the role of the government, or in the government of the authority, or in the power of the public, or in its educational role, entertainment, etc. All of these are important aspects of the media activity and are important. In terms of a review of the media law, it is not long since there was approved media law here. But the trend and change in the media market are so fast, including the U.S. Because of changes in technology, this may be a good check. A senator needs to examine it more and more regularly, more frequently than ever. I don't want to compromise it, and I think there is absolutely reason to take note of the indications and others that have come up with the need to look at specific regulations in current legislation, and even after cases of new regulations or new material that have come up in the media debates about the status of the media, their management status, etc., the influence of foreign organizations on the media market and the like. Everything I think must be, like, coo. A senator points to, for a discussion. As for the evangelical independence and freedom of thought by the media, I am so. A senator agreed that it is very important to be respected. In fact, I have already said in the public talk, of course, that part of my freedom of expression is that men can form a medium to fight for their opinions, personal opinions, or anyone else. It's part of the freedom of expression. It is vital that the possession of such media is very clear, so that the common people know which direction the media is speaking. For other things in general about the media market, I'd like to say that the media's operating situation is a concern. Well, at least not at all. A senator may not have done so very much that a talker's subject I know is underneath it. A senator spoke. Changes are becoming, for example, for example, in a commercial market where advertising is moving to the topic squad, such as Google and Facebook, into the foreign media. The introduction of such material as Netflix, the predictable introduction of more foreign sources that offer entertainment reduces the media, especially in the field of light. I don't think it'll be out of the question, and I've been calling for this discussion before, pointing out that one of the things we must take a stand on here and become more and more driving is the fact that Iceland's State Radio is on a commercial market and that it's a very big deal. I don't think it will work to the end of that arrangement. We must face that situation and take action to change it. It may take time and not happen on one loss or two, but I think we need to prepare for such an operation because the media's operating situation is getting worse. I don't think anything will change that. All evolution is that way. Then we must look to the media in other parts of the North and other places where the state of the media is not in the commercial market. It must be noted how much of the television media takes on, how much it is when we look at these factors. That should be kept in mind. A respectable president. In terms of a sense of possession compression, I remember when this was a few years ago a discussion of the then proposed media law, which included turned to the convergence, turned to possession, and the great controversy that arose in the Icelandic community because of that proposal. Sitting on each and probably most people had something to say, but they were concerned about the integration of property and the effect of so - called rich people, making a lot of phone calls on the media. They were worried about them. It is not surprising that people are still concerned about a press market compression. The important thing is to keep an eye on the property, that it is beneficial, that it is published regularly. This requires that the press committee be on hand in caring for that role. That's important. It is not a matter of fact, but it is probably time to examine the position of the media committee. I'd like to point out that men have discussed how the media board operates now and whether any of the projects it receives are designed to form a competitive market that could be handled through, for example. For example, competitive surveillance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u18	President. That the media referred to as the fourth power reflects the central role of the media in society. As a result, it is necessary to make the arrangements so that it is clear who owns the media and who controls them and that their editorial independence is guaranteed. I have sometimes heard that it was better here in the past when the political parties owned and wrote newspapers. Then people would have known who stood before the opinions presented. If there's anything in it that I don't think is, it's the only thing that's better than what's now. But just because of the lack of trust in politicians, the influence of the media becomes greater. Hence, it is even more important to recognize who is behind them. In the harsh political talk that has recently been presented, at least I have noticed that politicians choose which media they contact and to which media they speak. They suspect that it is because they think they are treated better than they do elsewhere. Such behavior is evidence of the need for a media medium to be expelled, not of special interest, but of a media that politicians cannot predict. Therefore, it is necessary to keep watch over the Kingdom News and to fight, with all means, against efforts to do less of its share. This will be done by not shrinking and limiting financial resources to the State Radio. You can never shut down that radio, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u19	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. It's very necessary. This, among other things, shows that the influence of the undisputed Panama Documents is also being shown in a very good time. Independent journalists succeeded in not fully solving the research report of the Generals, i.e. To awaken us, the public of the country, to know the vandalism of complex enterprises, which have communities in national areas. A report by the World Council of Churches stated that the media status regarding the misuse of its owners would be reinforced, and under that time, the last government and established a very important law on the possession of the media. One of the important elements in this law is that information about the possession of media companies should always be available to the public. It is vital in a small community such as ours to have possession on tables and to prevent its compression, as well as for the public, to be able to take sides in both editorialism and other media content, e.g. with respect to interest. Outside all of this, the media board is on the air, but we have seen that the largest private media companies do not seem to respect all their laws. I would also like to call attention to local media. I proposed a synopsis that aims to strengthen the regional media, and it is very important that they reflect diversity in Icelandic society, as well as to ensure diversity of media services and, like, maintenance of regional institutions. Of course, the Kingdom Radio plays a key role in the media of all the peoples. However, it is equally important to ensure support for regional media services by the state radio and to support other means of local media, which have ended up in the field of thought. The study of the regional media in the East Hrafnkell the importance of democracy, and when the local media began to weaken in the past decade, it had already influenced Lárusson discussions about the lives of the people of the smaller settlements. However, no media has legal responsibilities and responsibilities, such as The Kingdom Radio, to deal with regional and other issues and to share the diversity of Icelandic society. So, with all means, we must secure the core foundation of the Kingdom News, and I believe that the state of general social reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u20	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir for starting a discussion about the media environment in Iceland today. The media can play a crucial role when you form an opinion and take an informed view of matters. As a result, there is a healthy, transparent media environment that provides the basis for a democratic discussion and a national organization. The burden of our relationship is part of the equation that we wrestle in the big context. That is why it is even more important to have the possession of the media on the table. The 2011 media law was certainly a step in the right direction, and I believe the points were the best. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir brought in earlier on SE's tip is an observationary guide for the integration of the Icelandic media market. We must put the stitches carefully on whether there is any reason to look at legislation in order to meet these indications. That is against anxiety, as is the case with the highest degree. A minister of education pointed out how small the advertising market is in Iceland and how we're going to put it all together. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson proposed a very extensive inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of education and culture at the 144th legislature of the work and role of the Media Committee and review of the media legislation. I have too short time to ask and answer it accurately, but I encourage those who are interested in learning about it because there are a number of significant factors involved. However, a question related in answer to a 2nd question shows that a media committee in the period 2011◯2012 called for information on the possession and registration of the 64 issues of the 219 that it had for consideration. Other cases at the board included information on the annual reporting and permit applications. The answer also shows that the possession of all the media is published on the Web site of the media committee, as one of the aims of the media law to contribute to the public's right to information on the possession of the media. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to call for a press report. [[The president calls.]] Its page contains the last 2011 report made by a radio hearing committee so that I would like to know where the report is and if it is on its way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u21	A respectable president. In this discussion, I would like to use this opportunity to commend Icelandic journalists and reporters. In many media and large numbers, they have done amazingly well. Just going over the history of the present government to see how extensive and powerful the influence of these tough journalists have been in it to see how well they are doing. It is of interest, for example, to imagine what the present government would look like if there were no powerful media and journalists and reporters in the country. Then there would be at least two ministers still serving as ministers. How important it is to commend journalists and encourage them to continue their course of action, not allowing politicians to reroute the discussion, to select interviewers, to choose questions, to influence them! It has been the conduct of the minister of the current government, including the highest. A minister of education who has tried to do this by choosing the interviewers, choosing answers, and choosing questions that he is supposed to answer. There are experiments that will end in disaster. Therefore, ministers in the government have been affected, for example, by their dealings with companies like Energy Energy Energy, the highest. Secretary of the budget for its connection with a dating site like Madison Ashley, or vague answers to ownership in some of the comrades. That's why it's the highest. former environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, suffered political damage because of his environmental ideas. V.E.G. The industrial and commercial minister has not had seven days of pleasure because of his complete performance in the affairs of tourists all over the world. [[The president calls.]] This continued to be the case, the art of achievement is enormous, and there is every reason to commend Icelandic journalists for not allowing them to reveal the truth. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They are a reminder to Icelandic politicians that their conduct in all matters, before and after they take office, has to endure daylight.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u22	A respectable president. This debate is of utmost importance, especially now when we are in the wake centuries dealing with major leaks, a data leaks to reveal how governments and wealth have functioned in the past few years, if not for years. For the State Radio and whether it should be in a commercial market or not, I'm more concerned with the fact that this is how the TV's done that it can drive itself properly. As it is today, it is not pleasant to speak of the Kingdom Radio when it seems that there is something unpleasant about politicians, such hidden threats that sometimes seem to be heard from there. Besides the natural fact, advertising is a type of information. The government radio is guided by bringing information to all the people of the country, and it can be seen as if RUS is also supposed to be at a commercial market simply to get the information contained in it to the entire population. Another thing I'd like to mention is the safety of journalists. As it is now, a pot is broken in many places when it comes to freedom of expression in Iceland. During the day, two to three weeks ago, about 20 journalists were charged with murder because of alleged rape. This is very common in Iceland. This needs fixing. We are far behind similar nations when it comes to protecting journalists from such things. For example, the state of the press in Germany is much better. That's why many journalists go there, simply to write a lot of articles. The position of journalists has to be guaranteed so that they do not get involved in being called to account for something they are doing because of their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u23	A respectable president. It has never been easier in history to broadcast, even television, as well as print the message that humans have and want to share. Media has never been as common and popular as it is today and has never been as cheap as it is today. It's fine to have that in mind when discussing the status of the media. They have changed so much in nature and are now at what place they are. In that light, we do well to examine the position of all the private people interested in broadcasting or presenting their views in some other way, and examine their position in the tremendous rivalry they face toward the State. With national television, which has a gift from taxpayers more than 4 billion and advertising revenues. That's what I'm talking about today. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the government runs over five media media. It's got five media on its side. If people are really interested in promoting any media and a variety of news coverage, then this is a site where all these interested people will need to be brought down and equal the position of all these interested people at the market. This too has been discussed about the possession of the land. In fact, I am not convinced that there is a goal in itself, a distribution of property to the media, but it can be good equipment and necessary in many respects, especially in the light of financing. But let us consider the situation of the MRV. People never talk about a possession of the government media located in the Top Search. [[The president calls.]] Why not look there when someone speaks of the distribution of property?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u24	Mr. President. I believe that the policy that the government needs to have towards the media in the country should put the highest emphasis on a powerful public radio, on a transparent holding, on independent editorial policy, and also on creating an environment for the media in the country that contributes to its diversity. This is what counts with the media in Iceland today. Evolution and technology have led to visualization possibly. not so much as it used to be. For example, I believe that it is absolutely accurate. A minister of education earlier said that people should in the future try to find ways to pull the Kingdom News out of a commercial market. I think it's a matter of democracy. I think we need a variety of media, the State Radio has shown it, especially through the collapse and the years since then, that it depends on expectations, but we need more control over the system, to ourselves, but only in the process. So I feel that way, as we have seen at the conference - where the advertising market may be moving from this traditional field to another new level of material and becoming less crafty at this standard market - that it will be very difficult for other media to work on this market. That's why I believe that the state and the government are very important to ensure the very firm foundation of the public radio, but at the same time they will be aimed at drawing it out of a commercial market because we also need the media, the Island, the Core, the News magazine and what the whole thing is called, the hour, to maintain the support that this community needs. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u25	President. First, I want to thank you for this important discussion. It goes very well into the political and social dough we are in now, when we have been discussing the economic breakdown and then the collapse of political and social credibility. In terms of the problem we face, as regards the challenge of regaining trust and credibility, the media debate must be still open. The discussion is both timely and essential in this context. Of course, it is first considered a powerful public broadcast, which is the State Radio, which is independent, editorial independence, and under no circumstances is to be subjected to political ridicule or threats, as has been repeated in this ideal period. It shows the seriousness of the political situation that we have been facing during this term that so much in some way has been viewed as a normal part of political debates and discussions that people in key positions in the community - the chairman of a financial committee, other powerful members of the council with power and ministers - should be placed on top of the member of the state of the press, even threatening by means of a host. It's quite amazing, and it's at such time points that you doubt that there is a nation in Iceland, that we realize how important this core is. [[The president calls.]] The bottom line is a strong, powerful national radio and the possibility of supporting powerful, independent journalists, wherever they can be found.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u26	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the discussion that is urgent in these last days. The media is changing rapidly, and new magazines, some of which are funded in foreign lands, are now being developed. It seems that in itself, they do not add to the fleas in any other way than to slave to their owners, who differ from many. It is under such circumstances that a strong Kingdom medium, which ensures that all voices are heard, ensures that an Icelandic language is held in high esteem, which is also missing at times in the Kingdom Hall. Looking to a better direction in this regard these days. But I have to say in the interest of the debate here earlier today that politicians have been threatened by the state media, that I can say that the people here during the first session were the members of the United Kingdom Radio. Perhaps just a month ago, the same man was called for the first time on Channel 2. I don't know if there's any connection, but you ask yourself in a calm way. [[Up front.]] I feel so bad about it because I've been a frequent guest in the media that has a lot more distribution and a lot more hearing than this station, so it's okay. But what I'm talking about right now is that I believe it is necessary, however, that a media board and radio hearing committee are holding on to a powerful job, especially in order to make sure that the visual media in this area carry out their program in a careful Icelandic language. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u27	Mr. President. I, like others, thank you for this discussion. On May 3, the past year was a global day of media freedom, and it was reported in the media that, unfortunately, Iceland is rapidly subsidized on the list of Transparenecy International, which assesses corruption in individual countries and that Iceland was far behind other Northern countries in the list of media freedoms published in the wake of that day. Free, independent, and powerful media that protect public interests are absolutely essential in order to ensure that governments and thus prevent corruption. Events in the past month show beyond any doubt how important it is. They have also drawn the attention of the public to the danger that political and economic groups and special interest groups can have on the matter of corruption. The power of financiers who have great interest in political ideas and decisions over the influential media in Iceland is a source of great concern. This has been evident during recent losses, and everyone knows that one of the most powerful newspapers is owned by people who have been made very rich in power and power to use the nation's common sea resources. The world's media are under attack, and their freedoms are being reduced in many places by reporters without borders. They say that there is reason to worry about a deeper and more severe degree in the media freedom because of totalitarian authority. It seems that there is a rich tendency to increase the control of government officials. Even in European countries such as Poland. The key to Icelandic interests, Icelandic society, and democracy in this country is to have a strong Kingdom medium that is loyal to the public and no one else, independent of special interests and protected from political interference. I'd like to point out that there's a rIV key. It is one of the most important and important information and cultural institutions in the country, and we are to promote it in order to ensure the funds needed to meet its legal requirements. [[The president calls.]] Taking it off a commercial market, it's okay to look at the possibility, but it's also to secure the money the radio fee does.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u28	President. Thank you for a very good discussion. I'm glad to hear it. A minister of education is interested in revising the media laws and prospective resupervising or strengthening the media board under proposals made by ESE. In view of the discussion, I would like to point out that while everyone can install a magazine, being a good researcher requires a lot of knowledge. Not everyone can be a good researcher, so that it can be handled, and it's a big deal that we support extensive and deep research on complex issues, such as this. on the Panamas. I'd like to reiterate that even if we've recently passed a law, it's a growing and constantly changing reality that turns to the media. There will be rapid changes, and many of the media are in a real crisis because advertising is harder to get on the Internet and a lot of developments there. I'd like to agree with what's been going on. All the senators who have listened to me talk about the state of RUS know that I am a loyal friend of RUS but I believe it's very important to lock and secure funds, that the nose tax runs all to RUS, and that we're going on our way to take RUV out of a commercial market. But in order to be able to do so, it has to be so that under no circumstances can the budget be cut off, not according to the whims of the financiers. It must be as well as groundwork so that RUV can live up to its commitments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Parliaments before this discussion. I see it this way: it's important that there's a powerful public radio in this country. That is why there are compelling reasons, and I have repeatedly explained them from this discourse. But it is also true that this institution has a clear role, goals, and work accordingly. This will be discussed in the laws on the State Radio, and it will then be considered in the current service contract. As soon as I say this, I want to reiterate that what really matters, and most of it, the whole media market is our access to information, entertainment, entertainment, education. Then I think it's dangerous to watch only the state of the Kingdom Radio and watch the entire media market as a whole. I believe that there are both powerful public radios, national television, as are done in other parts of the North countries, and at the same time doing what needs to be done to create good management conditions for the other media. It cannot go up or conclude that we are in a position to have a powerful national radio and then a very weak media media broadcast, so that it will become a relative, relatively large national broadcast and then few, and even ill news media. This has been discussed even in the past. Other countries in the North and this discussion needs to be done here. I'm concerned about the situation of the unique media at the press market. I'm worried about their status. That is why I believe that there will be some sort of conclusion and solution in the next loss, and we don't have much time, so that the State Radio will go out of advertising markets, as well as the space of other media to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u30	V.E.G. President. I recommend to the Committee of General and Education Committee, which is in this case on the two issues reported by the president. At our main policy, we will discuss a major change in the judgment system in which we take up the interjugation stage, called the National Court. After that there will be the three judgment points, i.e. Governors, National Court and Supreme Court. This is followed by a change in the administration of the courts in order that the joint administration of all three judges will be restored to a new legal institution, the court's administration, and their independence will be strengthened by the Court's administration. The bill suggests new treatments, which take into account a new interjugation phase and change the role of the Supreme Court. Of course, the goal is to improve the judicial system, improve its effectiveness, ensures a more just trial to the courts and that the highest court of the country, the Supreme Court, can better carry out its role as an exemplary court of law. The principle of intermediate evidence will now be followed in two judges, both personal and criminal matters, but this principle is fundamental in the state of justice and includes the fact that all the evidence should be submitted during court treatment to the judges who judge the matter. We believe in the Commission that this change is to match international demands, but the European Court of Human Rights has believed that intermediate evidence in the course of appeal is part of a fair procedure under the European Convention of Human Rights. 1.mg. 70 C. The constitution. The National Court can revise all aspects of proof. It will be possible to bring new witnesses to the National Court and to take additional reports from the witnesses, however it is suggested that all reports in the province be recorded in a sound or image so that they can be played in whole or in part during the main treatment for the National Court. In view of this new arrangement, all cases would begin at the first judgment stage, i.e. in the province, but from there they could be appealed to the National Court. In extreme circumstances, the courts could be appealed directly to the Supreme Court. There were many reviews in this case, and there were some who wanted to increase the number of cases that could be taken directly to the highest court according to local law, and others wanted to narrow this authority to a great degree. We are entitled to our committee party that the source is relatively narrowly restricted. There must be a rapid decision in the matter, and there should be no disagreement on the assessment of the evidence of oral presentation in the matters to be rushed directly to the Supreme Court. It is our decision on the committee not to alter the proposals that appeared in the bill from a minister in this regard. These primary sites contain a whole set of laws on special judges, but there has been a good debate over how to command them, how to measure their properness, and how to give them their leave. This is a new reference to Icelandic legislation. There have been comments from GRECO, the European Council's national group on anti-corruption measures, the country's standard, and its viewpoints. GRECO makes more comments, e.g. With regard to ethics, but we come up with the Commission's opinion that the code of ethics has already been set up before court officials and by the judges' members of the jury is being prepared to make ethical regulations for judges. How important it is, then, that an organization is organized before a judge on the part of the court council! The bill contains an important law on the need for judges to seek to maintain their knowledge and to provide permission and support for their ongoing education. This is a factor of enormous importance and justice and will contribute greatly to the support of European courts. It should also be noted that at the last decision of the Council of Elders since 2015, there are ways to strengthen a judge further in maintaining his knowledge. Based on our assessment of the Committee and on what was reported by the State Department of State, we believe that these changes were met with the comments GRECO made in his report to judges. Of course, we will continue to observe what comments are made about the courts and to consider them in the near future. The bill for a court of law that is largely under way and covers a main policy for a new national right and a new order of the Supreme Court. The nature and nature of the case shows that this will result in a higher budget from the state's budget, and we will consider it somewhat in the committee's opinion, but we believe that it is important to point out the need for enough money to make all of this work for ourselves. Comments and discussions of the Committee covered court surveillance, but in 5,◯8. par. The bill is presented as a fundamental adjustment to the jurisdiction of the courts. It means that a court order will be laid down, but a special administrative facility in the judicial system will be established, which is called the Court's Office. We discussed some of this name and have not come up with anything better, but let's see if there's any better ideas in the Senate. The role of the Court's office is to care for the joint administration of all the courts. It should include a stronger administrative committee of the tribunals, ensuring harmony in the implementation of a case involving the internal function of the three judges. This is an independent organisation, which means that it does not submit to the invitation of other persons within the judiciary system and is therefore independent of legislation and execution. We believe that these changes are a major step forward, and we believe that a court hearing will be based on the principles of the administrations, including the rules of proper conduct. Count 9. This includes the judicial committee's orders for judicial action. In view of the independence of the courts, the internal surveillance of judges is being carried out within the judicial system. Government laws are expected to apply to this committee, which includes the Commission's work. The complaint about the actions of judges and the extra work that judges are permitted to do, and I'll do a little better later. We received a meeting of the Allied commission agents and reviewed the opinions of an agent in which he has discussed the administrations of the courts, some of which are. He has pointed out in his opinion and annual reports that a well-defined state of public control over the administrations of the courts. The committee and I agree that there is a need for correction on this point, and we study it, and this is on the basis of the Commission reviewing the law on the Universal Agent. There is a committee at work that has that assignment. We declare that our opinion on the General Commission is that it is proper to change the law of Sovereignty's agent in order to monitor the Committee on Justice and Justice at the hands of the Council of the Council of the Council, i.e. that his field of work includes the administration of the Court of Justice. We hope to do this when a bill comes from the Commission on a new law or a change of law on the U.S. government agent that this view of ours is visible to ours. We make some preliminary adjustments to provisional II, which includes earlier appointment by the Commission of the Court of Justice, i.e. From October 1, 2017, which is thought to be necessary to prepare for these dramatic changes, and all of this can begin at the right time. We discussed how judges are appointed. In 1 1. will be discussed with the judicial committee appointed by the minister to discuss the qualifications of those who apply for the office of the Supreme Court, the national Court, and the district judges. This committee, published in the 2011 Icelandic legislation, has shown that recruiters have not considered themselves bound by law to be equal and equal to the rights of men and women when it has been proposed on the committee. We here explain that it is the law's will that equality laws be valid. We believe that it is important that this will be made clear, so we believe that it should immediately be legalized to make sure that the Lawgiver's will is clear. We express our view that we consider the Supreme Court to be a more desirable reflection of society in terms of the proportions of the sexes than it does today. It was shown in the processing of the Committee that there is another bill in the Ministry of Internal Affairs for Orders in the Courtship of Justice. There was a time when that bill would appear here and go to the General Committee while we were working those cases. It's been delayed, but the bill is for review on the Home Office. It discusses changes in the rules of judges'orders and their growth. We stress that this bill will be started as soon as possible during the conference treatment and that it is in preparation and that the text on the web does not suggest any further adjustments to the requirements of this prime event in the order of the judge. We make adjustments regarding the proper conditions for those in the land's rights, and we suggest that we be on the subject of a percentage in order to meet the requirements in order to take place as a judge of the land's rights. One of the main points discussed in the Committee was the extra work of judges, but in more than 45 C.E. They are discussed by the bill. It suggests that the principle will be that a judge is forbidden to accept jobs other than his office or to share in company or business. On the other hand, a judicial committee can give an exception to these rules, considering that it is not incompatible with the position of a judge or that there is a danger that he cannot perform his office as an option. The comments in the text of a paper project with the bill are quite rigid. There was a review from the European Court of Justice Association that criticized this law or mostly the text and the position in the report. Judges were very uncomfortable with this conclusion. In fact, they suggest that the rules regarding extra duty of judges remain unchanged in current legislation. We discussed this point in the Committee, but we noted that this is an effort to sharpen the terms between the court and the legal authority, we believe that it is important, and to reduce the likelihood that the judges will perform or perform a task that may later be directly or indirectly to the courts. So we follow the principle stated in the bill and support it, i.e. that judges are not generally involved in other jobs, except in exceptional circumstances and that the judicial committee can allow exceptions. It must always be determined collectively from the circumstances of the judge and the nature of the professions that discuss whether it will be authorized. In most cases, you would think being a judge would be a full - time job. This was not an assessment of the Commission for the ability of the European Commission to use the experience and knowledge of the judges, e.g. Preparation of the user's legislation. It may be possible for a judge to sit in exceptional circumstances on a ruling committee. We also agree in this article that it is important to consider the rules of the judicial committees that are currently in effect to be revised and carefully considered which jobs are precisely incompatible with the activities of the judges. We agree that here is a significant improvement in the Icelandic legal system and that there are several changes that are legal in nature that I do not intend to make specifically, but they are open to. We suggest that the bill be approved with the changes I trace and lie in front. Hv. Councilmen Þorvarðardóttir Þólvardótttir Helgi Gunnarsson, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir sign this under the name of the committee with a warning that turns to III. chapter of the bill on the order of judges. Other members of the council who sign it are the ones here. Senators Anna Sævarsdóttir, Haraldur Jóhanna María Sigurðardóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u31	A respectable president. This is certainly one of the biggest cases before this council. It is a pleasure to see how well the committee seems, in view of history. A senator has dealt with the matter and put forth great effort to correct matters that may need to be corrected. I executed, and this is by no means material, the use of words regarding the fine legal counsel I know of past experiences. I can see that there is a new proposal for the name of that institution and that in itself I can agree with the adjustment proposal, i.e. That the Court's office will be a judicial hearing. The Court's office doesn't think it's a bad name for me and that's why. A senator called for some response from members of Congress to state that I feel that the Court is less ashamed, but I wonder why it would not continue to be called a court order, which I think is an excellent title for that institution or that advice, as it is intended for a role in the bill. I wanted to ask you why. A senator. The bill discusses appropriate judges and other matters. She's got a job anyway. Any mention of suitable lawyers for the new national rights? I don't think the bill will handle it, but I think it would be a good idea to discuss it, and make it totally out of the particular conditions, i.e. that the district attorneys would continue to plead a case for the National Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u32	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for this counter, which gives me the opportunity to thank the committee, which I forgot in my excellent history, for very good cooperation and management over these big cases and major changes. The judicial idea, i.e. to keep the name unchanged, as it were, was not specifically discussed. We decided not to complete the discussion on that point. There's a new proposal, and we're just going to think about it, and we're going to try to call out the main Icelandic experts in the audience, some of whom are best names. But this certainly is not a particularly narrow system, a court office. Regarding the lawyers, there was no special discussion or discussion in the Committee on the rights of lawyers to represent the interjugation issue. I don't recall the legal community making comments to the standards of the bill that apply to them. Of course, we still have time if there are any comments to that, but I assume that if it didn't come up with harsh protests from the law firm with regard to the ups being here, it was worked, so it was careful to consult, including... ... witha lawyermate. This may explain why commenting on large and changing issues does not come from times of conflict to the council, because the members of the judicial system who feel that many had promoted their views in previous stages. Of course, there is always something that stands out for us. It may be noted that a former court judge, Jón Steinar Gunnulsson, made very interesting speculations and proposals to change the protocol of a court order to the Supreme Court so that each judge would qualify for his own name. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u33	A respectable president. It may be that I haven't seen it in the bill, but I understand it so that a court-oriented bill will not handle the right of men to transport to the National Court in this case, I guess we should be on the same page. I mention this in particular because I would have thought this was a good time to review even the rights to the Supreme Court as they are today. There's been a disturbance in these matters for a long time; there are few cases available for test subjects to obtain rights for the Supreme Court. This has caused some inflation in the so - called five judges'cases for the Supreme Court. I don't see any specific evidence that the right to transport the land court, as this bill is available, should be any other than the right to transport the cases before the district. To say that, I would also have considered it appropriate to review even the rights to transport to the Supreme Court. Maybe there's something wrong. The committee may examine if the case is to be returned to the committee. But at the very least, it's a view I think it's right to come up with. Of course, I realize that along with this bill there are bills of changing laws that I don't see to form a bill to change the law of law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u34	V.E.G. President. Yes, proper lawyers, that would be a change in legal law. It led to the conclusion of this work, which was carried out in the Ministry to try to change the law until these legislation here were realized, so that it would be quite clear what the basis was before it would be a mistake, if at all, the rules that appear to us in the law code. It will be then, in due course, a part of the alliance that then has to go through the council. Hopefully, it will happen on autumn days. It's too early to promise it'll be that way. We know there's an election coming up, and things take their time. But the basis is that these legislation will go through here before such changes are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u35	A respectable president. We here discuss matters that are fundamental to the change in our judgment system and are therefore not to be brought into this regard. Here, people need to think and adapt to every step taken. That's why I feel like, even though special representatives are involved. The General and Education Committee has had some opinions on the matter, that there are agreements that have been made to try to put the matter to good use according to prisoners, precisely because such established issues cannot be settled in the consignment of elections, in the atmosphere and in the tensions that often develop in close proximity to elections. Such a matter must be handled with care and out of the tensions that all of us have to relate to the political movement. Basically, the committee has come to an end, although some comments have been made that I consider to be worthy of full attention. Many of these have been considered and have been endeavored to grasp the main issues and to settle views by prisoners. I think it's good. However, I would like to use my talk here to kill on the key points that I feel are a reason for handling this matter. It is certainly worth improving, and it is worth making the improvement of the present judicial system to achieve goals such as cross-border evidence in the appeal phase and that the Supreme Court is getting a clear and clear role as an examplegiver and the Supreme Court in our legal system. In that respect, the goals of both the bill that we will discuss here are needed. But as I said, there is reason to be careful with the job, and I feel no better than it's being done. First, I feel that the viewpoint presented to the Commission regarding the order of a judge's office is something that needs careful attention. From various sources, the Minister's authority in the bill was identified that it offered political interference with the order of judges, especially because the bill assumes that a minister can turn aside from the recommendations made by a judicial committee and can do so by calling for a more simple section here at the General Assembly to make that decision. I suggest a change in this, which means that there is an increased proportion of paid votes to make this decision. We know that it is very simple for a minister to come to the Generals and get approval of his actions, but if a decision is to disqualify a competent committee to choose a judge's choice, I think it is only natural that they are due to such obvious reasonable reasons and legitimate reasons, that more part of the council hall, which is said to increase the proportion of a chamber, two-thirds of a paid vote, should agree with it. Therefore, I propose an adjustment proposal there, and not only I but also the representatives of the government on the committee, why. Councilmen Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and Guðmundur Steingrímsson. The speakers have then warned of the risk that surveillance and judicial support may be lacking because of the manner in which a judge's orders and procedures are carried out. For example, it has been suggested that the rich influence of a sitting Supreme Court judge on the order of a new judge can lead to academic and professional conformity to court. I agree with the warnings, thinking that these indications regarding the court order need to be taken into account. But I also agree with the indications that have been made available at a meeting of the Committee and in the opinions and annual reports of the Trustees of the II Parliament, made up of the committee's panels here and the committee considered by the joint committee, that in a law a clear rule of the administration of the courts is lacking. We'll make some adjustments about that, the committee as a whole, and I think that's an improvement. Then there's a reason, I think, to take note of indications of a predictable problem while the order of 15 new judges on one board, as the court bill assumes. So much recruitment in a short period of time will inevitably lead to a great transfer of avatar into a class of judges, which is likely to also bring down criticism of inexperience among judges. This could result in a lack of faith. It has even been said that this could be the case with a confidentiality between the court and the nation. It was noted for the Commission that it might be more likely to place the newly formed member of the judge's class that is needed because of the bill down to five to ten years in order to limit the negative effects that a judge's experience may lack. It's the viewpoint that I think there's good reason for you to keep up. Third, it should be noted that the changes measured by the bills are all very costly. It must raise questions as to whether the necessary funding has been guaranteed. So, of course, you wonder, " Is it wise to make such costly changes in a system of judgment that is already in trouble to cause the works they are entrusted with because of the lack of money, as we have been given very impressive descriptions of by some members of the committee? ' Hence, perhaps there is reason to look at ideas that have revealed inexpensive ways toward the goals of the bills. Stefán Stefánsson, a professor of law school at the University of Iceland, has developed such ideas in his article in the Law School of 2015, entitled ▪ Ideas on the Interjugation Levels. Fourth, of course, it can be questioned that with the implementation of this bill and these fundamental court-oriented bills, there is a firm response to the criticism that GRECO, the European Council's Committee on Depravity, has established in the Icelandic judgment system of Iceland's National Report, published in 2013. In response to a request from Ástrún Guðrún Helgadóttir on this subject, on the subject. According to the bill 743, there is a special chapter on special judges who respond to GRECO's comments about them. The bill also states that judges should strive to maintain their knowledge of the law. That's for the better, all right. However, it may be that GRECO's criticism is a cause for greater reactions, and it may have the power, in the bill to a new court order, to respond to more of the limitations indicated in the GRECO report, to form in connection with the risk that one and the same judge can handle all judicial cases in Iceland for many years, to the lack of public standards for judges and the lack of effective training and instruction in morality, honesty and to prevent and prevent conflict in the work. More than anything else, I'd like to mention that more discussion had to be made about the possibility of bringing a case at two judgment points in a three-point system, i.e. for an arrangement that would allow a case to take place between the state court and the Supreme Court without being held in the National Court and the thought that a certain matter will first be taken up in the National Court without any occasion in the province. But these ideas are, in my opinion, worthy of our evaluation and inspection. Nevertheless, I feel that it is necessary to make the improvements that are being offered here to the present court system so that the goals I mentioned can be met at the beginning, such as the direct evidence of appeal and that the Supreme Court is given a clearly defined role as the Model and Supreme Court of the Court of the Court of Justice. So I don't lie against the bill and I'm with the committee on the committee's opinion as a matter of course. The head of the Board of Education and the Board of Education has traced the views to which they are tore. I'm happy with the changes made on the deck. 1316, but in addition to making other forms of improvement, we need to make a new one. 1326, on the one hand, about what I mentioned earlier, the need for a greater part in the General Assembly to deviate from the proposals of a judge, if a minister intends to do so, and then that, instead of the Word of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice will turn into a proper recession. It sounds to me like the response of members of the council here that this change is a good sign, a much clearer word, perhaps more vivid. I hope there's a check-in between the 2nd and 3rd. and that these adjustments can be taken into the hope that the committee will be able to unite in all of them. So to that end, I am content with other matters, with the warnings that have been attributed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u36	Madam President. I'm only going to participate in this debate on the courts. Like what? The head of the committee went well here at the outset, which I consider most important, was agreed to bring this case into hand. It's a matter of community involvement, and it's important that we send it out to the community that there's a pretty good deal to it. I want the Chairman to thank you for the cooperation of the Committee on this matter. We took our time and got, I think, all of them to meet us who were wanted. I gained considerable insight into the court case I had not before. It has only been discussed with the main issues that the committee was facing. We came to a somewhat similar conclusion when we were more likely to look at them than when we were reading together differences may have been the only factor in our understanding of them. The big issue in this is proof of transfer and the establishment of this new court, allowing it to restore trueness. I think it's an important penance, and I think everyone who came before the committee felt that way. Of course, people are concerned that all three cases of judgment go to an extreme. However, it is now being tried by means of a certain procedure, creating a process called bypass for what might go directly from the first judgment level to the third level, and trying to make the knots that most cases end in the second judgment stage. As we have been through here, and in itself nothing new that I can add to the package, this monitoring show has been criticized considerably. You also hear in the community that people feel that trust in the courts is not enough and that there is a much better check than has been done. As an agent so finely entered them, they may have ruled out a court order of public surveillance. He felt that he did not have the necessary authority to do so. Therefore, it is directed to the Presidency Committee, which has the Commission's legislation on the subject, that this should be kept in mind and asked if the committee thinks it is a reason to turn laws into the state that we in the General and Education Committee consider to be a reason. As was attributed here, we did in the memory of the 12th parr. Hv. paritaprevir The question about trust was covered by the electron of the Þorvarðardóttir Ólína, whose confidence and trust in the appointment of judges play a very important role in the lives of many, at least at some point. Hence, it is important that there be work to do and that there is a social reconciliation regarding how this work is being done. So I think it's good to do this kind of thing. Regarding the comments on the subject, including that a district case could be weakened because there would be a great flow from there to the National Court, and it was found to be the same standard for judges in both the Supreme Court and the National Court, one of what was being done, and we agreed to change that, i.e. that an individual would not need to have been a professor for a certain period of time to receive an order in the position of a Supreme Court judge or a national court judge because of a change of time, and this change is under consideration. Above all, it may have been critical that the district court would get sick, and some people had the idea that this would be done in stages so that some human beings would be trained over and over again. Then there was the problem. The chairman of the Committee explained, the duties of judges, and their discretion came into play a little; of course they have improved. Among other things, they were suggested, or the idea, that they would not have to be in other jobs at the same time. It's a double power. It may also be very good to have someone inside the system who knows how to deal with the situation, and then it can be awkward when it comes to interpreting the laws that you were sitting at the table of your own writing. Others say it was an option, and some thought it was a drawback, but I think the conclusion that has been reached here is excellent. With regard to quality, i.e. The civil case, the problems to the Supreme Court, he has sent the case back, and he has not personally appreciated this evidence. It was found to weigh the whole system, to be unfaithful, and this is one way to reduce it. Perhaps there have been too many cases in the hands of the Supreme Court. It is now assumed that most of them could become more than 80 or so, and they will have more time to go into each case. When it came to the dress and equipment and the like, I made comments to the financing. Still no answer from the Ministry. I think it's a little under-finance, like it's in the bill. Not only in the big context but also at the base of the network of each year, as is suggested here. I think it's too small. Then we must look to the system of judgment that is not well financed today. We see the situation in a federal court that is not acceptable. When we're talking about creating an expensive interjugation level here, I don't think it's worth no one's denying that it's an expensive intermediate level, the same time that the system's inflated, it's not unusual for people to ask themselves, " Is it possible to do things differently? ' Can we take advantage of other methods, less expensive ways, of reconciliation, and other things that may not have been considered sufficiently? An article in which we received an article in which some judges make their opinion that this need to be examined more fully; Stefánsson Barsson gave it to us. Although he is not against the bill as such, he mentions it. Thinks there are other less expensive ways. He has doubts about the fact that we have 15 new and qualified judges who needed help and others, as well as had doubts that this could go differently than some court official's getting sick, and then it was a national judgment. A significant discussion was about this concomitantly called, and a judicial committee merely suggested that she should change the committee, including the Commission. so that it was in the court's place, and then it also referred to that, as with this bill, to let it go into effect in two hours. It was said that the order of the judge would be the way the council set for 2011 on a professional basis. I agree with that. I think it's very good. In some respects, it may have been the middle of the discussion. I don't know if it's been evaluated whether the way has not worked, whether it hasn't given out well, and how many judges have been appointed according to this route taken before, etc. People were well - versed in that bill. Of course, in such a large crowd of subjects, not everyone is happy, and people have different approachs in this context. The Prosecution believed it had gotten its way, i.e. that their viewpoint had been well treated during the preparation of the bill, but it was still worried about it and reminded them that the changes, the design, and all that when the proof is made - both in sound and in image, it takes an enormous amount of time, or can do so, and they are experiencing certain problems with recordings today. This needs to be considered in the event of the procedure. It also showed us how to find territory where people are vulnerable to the media and to the people. That's one of the things I have doubts about; we're going into this fundless system that needs a lot more than here may be expected. A respectable president. This is where we published what we most talked about in this bill. As I say. First and last, it is about the principle that this evidence can be performed a second time and that it is not usually to be carried out by any judge. I agree that this council of the courts will be laid down, and this court will be judged. I think it's much more than enough, because I see the change I hope the council approves. Although this is not the main issue, this is one of the important things. Before I speak, I'd like to mention, because I've talked about the terms and costs and all that, of course, there's a considerable review of the re-education of judges. That was one of the things that were criticized for not going through the system so far. Strong opinions on this matter were presented on page 24. 40 in the bill, which discusses salary and employment, that in the past judges could go to reenactment in a judge's re-education fund and district attorney before it has been changed. Now, a judge is entitled to re-education a four - year course, first after four years of work and to earn three - week leave each year. The most accumulated dishes can be six months, and it does not reach its end but must be used by the person. Perhaps the book of the Cathedral for Judge of Supreme Court was burdensome because it was limited that there could not be more than one judge on leave at any given time. However, this means, in effect, that every year about one judge is a case of reeducation. It is in itself fine for judges to reexamine. It's absolutely necessary and important in this world we live in that which changes constantly. At the end of the budgets, in the courts, and in this bill, it is new to evaluate and make proposals for Ministers to have necessary funds for the establishment of the judicial system in favor of individual courts. That institution assumes the role of the Court of Justice and the Supreme Court in this regard. The minister should appear to the budget board and explain it, it has not been before, if he disbarred from the proposals of the Court of Justice and other abnormalities that may occur on the basis of a bill for financial gain. Funds are to be divided to all the courts, to the Supreme Court, to the National Court, to the districts, and then to the Court of Justice. It should therefore be very convenient to frame this in and see this. At the same time, though, keep your arms fixed on where there is a danger that there could be an aberration and where it could not be. I've been saying, as I said before, worrying that this system of ours may be funded, hoping that an answer will come from the Ministry, even if the case is here at 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u37	A respectable president. I'm not gonna have a lot of words about this. I come up to declare, in principle, that I'm on a committee party, the only committee opinion published, that's not more part or less. But I have reason to be ashamed of the appointment of judges. I agree with an adjustment plan as it is. paritaprevir An Ólína Þorvarðardóttir daughter has advised her that if a minister is to make his own decision to appoint a judge in a state of disgruntment, 2/3 members of the council would need to agree. Of course, it's a big, big thing, and it's just a matter of words against it. This has to do with the courts, a major change in the court setting. Of course, you don't have to be an expert in this field. So it's been done for ten years, and all sorts of people have come to it and done a lot of work, so you're a little shy about criticizing it in a way that's been taken advantage of. It was something that came up in the discussion of the Committee that was very interesting. Big questions and less questions that woke up. For example, is it possible to appoint a series of 15 judges in Iceland? I have no answer. Many expressed doubts about this and felt that it might take a little more slowly. However, we on the committee decided not to make any changes. We've got to find out. I'm allowing myself to be optimistic. Like the rights and duties of judges, questions arose. Whether judges might be acting differently than judges. We received comments from judges, but the committee decided not to make changes. I agree with that. This is an important job that I feel that judges should do it only and not do other jobs. Now we're taking up the third level, but still we're willing to do so, and we'll be able to appeal at two points of judgment. Several questions were discussed. How should this be handled? How does that work out for you? I think for many of these opinions, time has to reveal it and some experience for us. We must feel free to make adjustments in the future, even though our conviction now tells us that this is the way it should be. I support this case, and in the bright future we support this matter. Under the circumstances, however, a man's mind came up with large questions. This is about the system of justice, and it is the cornerstone of an open democracy. This is absolutely fundamental in ensuring a welfare community that courts work well. I'm concerned that with the committee's discussion, you couldn't ignore the fact that at the arrival of the guests, time and again, there was much intolerance to courts. People are not happy with the courts. In part it's natural for obvious reasons, much of what I think. The courts in recent years have been under great stress and a great number of paintings. Unrecognised language numbers e.g. to the Supreme Court. One case a day, as shown in the panel coverage. Of course, there is something to refuse to act, and this is evident in the fact that a lot of people become disgruntled with that treatment. The citizens will be unhappy with the treatment they receive in court. Dissatisfaction with the judgments. While it may not be good in democracies and legal systems to debate the decision of the judges, people have much to do with the subject coverage, harmony in logic, whether judges have studied evidence, and so forth, in the streets. People have large fundamental questions about the appointment of judges, and I'll be waiting there, and probably more members of the council, excited for a bill on that matter in particular. However, it is claimed that judges in the land are sealed with a gang and that it is difficult to show them support, difficult to criticize. They do not listen, and they have actually become some kind of king in this kingdom. Such criticism comes out. We must listen. Of course, this is serious. You must also look at the fact that the bill does not deal directly with the basics, but it is being proclaimed as a bill of judges. It needs to be carefully addressed, including Because of this intolerance. But this bill also benefits. There are three points of judgment. I'm relieved of the pressure. There are 15 new judges in the new period of judgment. It eases stress from the Supreme Court, thereby leading, hopefully, to a better trial. They're supposed to strengthen the administration of the courts. I hope it will be also to face this criticism. Although you share the intolerance that came to the Committee's discussion and I'm a member of the community, in many respects for obvious reasons, you also conclude that if you succeed and if funding is good and must be carried out by law, when the bill becomes legal, hopefully it will be beneficial. I hope that will improve the courts. Then questions like the order of a judge arise. First of all, there is good reason to agree with the annual requests and criticism of the Generalist on the fact that he has nothing to say about the government of the courts. So hopefully they'll be turned into a prospective prime committee bill. But it is also just this point: Judges are life - giving. They can't be fired. The reason is that they should be independent of their work. But it does in a way that violates common sense that the arrangement is not like that in other areas of society. Take, for example, the emissary of the Generals who is also expected to be neutral and professional and independent in his work; he is not the life - style. He can be fired. He enjoys the privilege of losing his job. He will not again vote as an agent if he is not considered to be in some way superior. This is how we have also changed our health. Today, doctors must be professional and neutral and do their job, but they are not so untouchable as judges. And, of course, it's not being addressed in the bill, and there's no reason. On the other hand, I think it needs to be discussed and thought, including... because these views were very strong before the committee that this has become some kind of closed gang that is hard to criticize, difficult to support. The fact that judges are hard to write is hard to reason with, not consistent. Then we must think only about it, that would be the next step, how judges are appointed, and whether this is the right arrangement. There is also another subject that was discussed only briefly with the committee. The cost of painting has grown inaccessible to civilians. We say everyone is equal to the law. Everyone has a right to justice and judgment and decision in his affairs, but I think the cost has come to an urgent question, and I'm going to leave it in the air at the end of my speech. When we run it for citizens to sue or defend themselves in court, it is a very urgent question: Is everyone equal to the law? But there is a discussion that we will hopefully take with greater depth later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u38	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend the discussion much. First and last, I'm going to thank the chairman of the Committee, who studied the case as an authority, for her and for their much work in behalf of this case. As mentioned in the case of what? A senator who spoke before me is this huge, very important case that has come to pass. More than that, we have reason to thank those who have been involved and rejoice that this adjustment in the judicial system has finally occurred. And there is reason to rejoice, too, that there seems to be a good and far - reaching reconciliation. It's incredibly important because, like everyone's head, it's amazing. According to members of Congress who have spoken here, any change in this magnitude, this magnitude, and this importance need to be of the nature of confidence that they will survive the election and are supported by as many as most of the people involved in the work on the legislature. I appreciate that. I think the matter is very important not only to put the Icelandic system of courts in the same rhythms and costumes as that of neighboring nations but also to ensure that there will be a problem and that we will be loyal to the most important work around these so many and so many important projects. I think that's what happens with this arrangement. I also agree with what many have. Councilmen have mentioned; we need to consider the overall arrangement of these matters, the matter of persistent questions, and major questions. They may not be addressed in the bill, but it does not matter that the system in which we trust so much, the courts, must be that way. As noted in the case of the two, we have all heard. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son before, about the concerns that come from our courts today. It contains a complaint that, of course, can be explained in part by intense stress, extreme stress during the past few years, much more than can be thought of as normal. Still, we need to deal with many persistent questions about content and how the common people experience things, as well as what experiences we hear. I sat as Minister of the State for a while, not that I'm not going to trace it from this platform, but I have to admit that I was in a state of shock to some of the discoveries that I realized around the judiciary system, a variety of experience stories, and things I thought they were, and still, that I could do better. One of the things I wanted to mention in this context is not directly supported by this bill, but it is still under the issue of court surveillance. It is my opinion that I have been convinced and became more convinced each day as I sat in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, that the court case must be understood from other aspects of the government. That's absolutely essential. Our government order must be changed so that the court case is in a special Ministry. The step taken here at the time, to combine the issues under the department management, transportation, and all other forms of transportation, was not a good step. In most Western countries and countries we compare with them, judicial cases are considered to be so different from any other subject. It is so important that they are as far away from the Commission and the legislatures because of the trident government that they have and must be heard under a special Ministry. There's no need for extra costs in the system. It is not even necessary to appoint a special minister over such a department. It may be possible that such a ministry would be represented by a minister of another office. However, there is a particular work ethic, specific work ethic, that is such that the court case and case of the court do not agree with plans and decisions around e.g. Roadways, transportation, rural affairs, and other matters, which are naturally different. As far as I'm concerned, we're concerned about every case in our governance. There's no lawsuit, no agency to provide anything but this one group of subjects. There may be a small Ministry, it may be extremely specific and custom on these topics, but it would be my highest step towards improving communication with this party and making sure that the trinity of the state's government is as certain as we want it to take this change into the government ship of the country and make sure that this category is in support of a special agency for his control and management.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u39	V.E.G. President. I'll come up to make a few things. In terms of the funding of the intermediate level, it is fully financed. The discussion revealed that questions about the financial side were addressed to the Ministry that had not been answered, but we received a written answer from the Ministry, which was sent on the committee. This is made clear. The estimated cost is and what is expected to come from funds. Similarly, we discuss it only at our committee party. Regarding the changes made before us, there are three, two from the representatives of the government on the committee, and one from then on. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, who could not attend the discussion today. It's about the Senate of those who came from the Hornfjords. The Horns have chosen to look further south, and during the transition to law enforcement in the county districts, they were suing the chief of police in the South and the county office in the southern part of their territory. Suggested what? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason of Aarnard has been forced to present the tribunals also in the South of the East. There is a different motion from that. paritaprevir The Ólína Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir and others. I only reviewed earlier that there is a bill for review on the Home Office's Web on how judges should be appointed, but we make no changes in that order because that bill is coming, to be made clear again. Finally, I would like to thank the number of stewards who have been involved in this case. Based on the report with the bill, this case has been under way since 1972, if I recall correctly. The work we are building is rooted in control points to a committee as the then minister and the present debate. These include Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, appointed and led by Edwald Kristín Edwald. Of course, thanks is to those who have laid the foundation. It was also an important work done under control. paritaprevir The Ögmundur - year - old son of Jónasson, then a minister, was presented in the past. Minister of Ólöf Nordal. These agents are to be thanked as well as the Committee itself, the members of the Ministry of State, and our fine members of the Committee to Call Kristín Einarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u40	V.E.G. President. In 2011 the General Assembly was given a law on the order of research committees, but on the basis of that law, two extensive research has been undertaken according to Generals Decisions, one on the Substitute Fund and the other on the savings Funds. The experience was found to show that the laws being carried out within these studies have been inexplicable. The bill that we received in the Board and Control Committee is passed by the Council's Presidency Committee, which held in agreement to its transport and was set forward as the goal of making the law clearer, that the financial basis for such studies, a dimension, should be more legally reserved than by the current law. As a result, a resolution adopted at the Council of the World Council in the autumn of 2012 has not been made because this adjustment has been expected. That is why it is happy that this bill has come to pass and is now, hopefully, in the final stages. There were some aspects of the matter discussed at the board of administrations and monitoring committees, including how to better prepare for the Commission's orders. The bill, among other things, seeks to clarify the role of the President of the Generals and the Commission in this process. The main objective of the research committee is to inform matters and at the same time provide a basis for the response of the General or the local government. The committee discussed some of the criticisms that have been shown that the conclusions about the order of the committees have not all been accurate enough and that careful preparation is a fundamental precept for success. The bill suggests that prior to a proposal for an investigational committee order, the review of the President of the Generals must be sought from a state accountant and his agent. The committee considers this to be very important, considering that these two agencies of the Parliament have the knowledge and experience of research and assessments needed to lay the groundwork for preparing such a proposal. The Commission considers it important that, at the beginning of the work and cost programme, be introduced to the President of the Generals. For the Committee, there was a suggestion from an economistic firm to be careful with the orders of committees to have a uniform gender ratio. The committee agrees with these views, but it does not feel the need to make such a statement in the light of a set standard of equal status and equal rights between women and men. In other words, there are laws that will guarantee this, no matter what the bill says. The committee discussed some of the costs of research committees and whether their operations were adequate. The bill suggests that the head of the research committee should inform the President of the Generals on the work and expenses of the research committee. Then adjustments are made regarding the preparation of a proposal for the order of the investigator in Article 1. the bill, i.e. that the Commission and monitoring committee specifically assess the basis and the basis of the study, the scope and limitation of the Agency, as well as the availability of other instruments. The article also suggests that these committees evaluate a number of committees and what requirements they should meet with professional knowledge and finally plan for the cost of the project. It is also suggested to seek the fame of the President of the Generals, who will be permitted to seek the direction of the State Advisor and U.S. Marshal's Office. The Commission feels that it is very important to prepare carefully, and it is a great improvement to state the work of the President of the Generals and the Commission in this respect. In 1 1. The bill is requested to ensure that the head of the research committee is responsible for the budget of the Committee and is in charge of the committee until a review of the accounts has been made. Furthermore, it is requested that the head of the research committee be handed over to the President of the General Accountable for the work of the committee and that it be signed within three months. The Commission feels that it is necessary to state the responsibility of the Chairman in terms of the Commission's income and the submission of an act that is deemed necessary to support the management of such committees. The Commission also agrees with the importance of stating clearly the obligation of the President of the Generals to monitor the performance of a project and cost programme, but in Article 10. The bill is requested to ensure that a committee of research should inform the President of the Generals on the management and expenses of the research committee. The committee suggests that it is necessary to maintain the scope and management of such committees. The provision of temporary action in the bill is to ensure that, when the legislation is established, the Commission and Observation Committee shall discuss the decision of the General Assembly from November 7, 2012, of a study of the privateisation of the Employment Bank, Iceland's Bank and Iceland's Farming Bank, in order to ensure that the separation and extent of the study and preparation will be in accordance with the regulations of these regulations. In view of the changes proposed in the bill, it is reasonable to consider this review of the General's resolution. 5 mg. 1st par. The bill is requested to ensure that at any time, the Council can change or cancel an investigation with a new conclusion. The committee feels that such a law is unnecessary because it is part of the council's role to be able to rethink matters if that is the case and therefore suggests that the sentence should be removed. The Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification, i.e. 5 mg. 1st par. ... goout. Hv. Senators Höskuldur Þórhallsson and Willum Þór Thor Þórsson were absent from the situation. St Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, an officer on the committee, agrees. In turn, it is written in the form of a column. The men of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, Birggith the Ármannsson of Aargah, the Birgitta of Jónsdóttir, Bribbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson, Lára the daughter of Arnardóttir, and A Árni Páll the Árnason of Aarna. V.E.G. President. I've applied to the Commission's Commission and Council Control Committee in this speech, almost reading our opinion right to make all of this in the most clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u41	Madam President. We're not talking about any regular flights here. We've got one of Alduke's cornerstones here. The research committees discussed here are a very important and growing part of what might be called the inter-management of the political elements of our control ship. I will better review the bill in a brief talk afterwards. But what I would like to kill is Generalis's resolution from November 7, 2012. Hv. A senator slightly turned to her in the opinion he had previously made a story for. There he mentioned that there was a waiting for this bill to be taken up by a board of directors and patrols before it was taken into consideration. Today, proposals for research committees often arise when heat and waves rise. Not all of them age well. The proposal we agreed on in November 2012 has not grown well. There are many factors that have been identified that cannot be examined, and some have simply been reported. Still, there are aspects of the suggestion that I believe must be made, and the Generals also have some way of answering the call that comes out of it or removing it. I'd like to ask you why. A senator because he is the chairman of the Commission and Commission: How will he, following the predictable approval of this bill, apply himself within the committee? What can be expected of the committee to do in order to fulfill 14? Article 2, which is a provision for temporary action that deals exactly with the appointment of the Commission and the monitoring committee to suggest how the 2012 decision will be carried out?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u42	V.E.G. President. In this case, there has been a wide - scale solidarity in the council. In November 2012, people wanted to have the interpretation for the precise reasons. A senator referred to him. It's wide, there's a lot under her umbrella, and we're waiting to get a law frame that allowed us to limit the subject further. That law is about to come into existence right now. Now, we have received indications from the U.S. Marshal's agent that a certain aspect of the agreement since November 2012 needs further consideration, that a further opinion on these aspects is likely to lead to new information. Now we wait to review other aspects of this conclusion since the fall of 2012, to review the research reports made, both in a committee that worked before the Council and then in the General Assembly itself, and to see if anything is still missing, or whether an investigation of any other factors is likely to produce new factors. If we do not, if we are convinced that we are not, we stop. On the other hand, if we become convinced that there are still factors and questions remaining and that we are likely to have further investigation, we will, of course, make suggestions on this to the Council. It is the task of the General Board of Directors and Follow-up to come up with an agreement on proposals for the Generals, which covers them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u43	Madam President. It's nice to hear it from you. The head of the administration and monitoring committee that the decision is made on how to proceed with this proposal. From my point of view, the decision to make such a decision has been a most unpleasant one. As the result of what politicians know, so do we who lived in the collapses of many members of the community that the Allied Council is sweeping that proposal under the carpet. However, I can agree, as I said in my previous answer, that the proposal was very broad and inexplicable and would have been difficult to attack, especially in view of the experience with the two committees that have been employed before, in contrast to leaving it something further. But that's not what I've understood. It is not until this bill is approved that you can finally go to cancel the proposal and set out what is no longer in force. All right. After saying that, I still rejoice that with the approval of the bill presented here, the President of Generalis will receive an instrument that will greatly shape the attitude of such a practice. This power of the president will likely prevent people from running and accepting overexcitable suggestions that may be insurmountable because they are so vast. But I have to say it, as I said before, that this particular proposal has not grew old. If you look at it today, it seems to me that it is very difficult to make an appointment or perform what is literally contained in it. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to it. þm. The jealous son of Ögmundur makes arrangements to bring this matter to a final resting - place of some kind after the investigation made by the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u44	V.E.G. President. I think that if we look at the approach of the General of these matters, the collapse, what happened in its leading and postmortem, then there is a general and sincere desire for the Senate to reveal the truth. We have been considering how this will be done in the most organized way. It is a pleasure to know that the Presidency Committee has turned into a bill of cross political monopoly on the Presidency Committee, and then we have discussed the situation on the board of administration and monitoring committees on the same basis. I don't think anyone will violate the fact that we're going to bring out what is believed to be unsatisfying. There may be the view that humans want to go further and explore other factors and then at later levels in the pursuit of the crash. That is something that we will discuss later. But now we are taking decisive steps to implement a Senate resolution or to accept the Council, which has certainly been on our table for a long time, I agree with it. A senator, but more important, it is that we do so in a tricky, balanced way and in a way that is likely to bring us the results we can expect.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u45	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend the discussion. I just wanted to come up here and celebrate the fact that this bill has come up and that it's a long way. I guess we can vote for it soon. We have only burned ourselves in the past few years that the cost of research committees has greatly improved. I don't even know if plans have been placed in every case at the beginning. But the cost of savings and the report on the apartment loan is over a billion dollars. It is our responsibility that money is well treated and that when you take the important work you are studying, it is clear to you that every cent you spend is well spent. That is why we have brought it up in our committee party. It says, under the permission of a president: The Commission considers it important that, at the beginning of the work and cost programme, be introduced to the President of the Generals. I'm going to go further and say, of course, I'm not going to go on that project unless there's a complete project and cost and time frame. That's absolutely basic. The research committees are very important. They have the authority to study and address matters that others do not even have. But we need to be careful not to overdo it, and we need to work hard so that money gets the best of its means. I agree with what was said earlier on the Senate resolution of the private development of the banks. Of course, it was prepared before a study of the savings and the apartment loans, and hence it is far too extensive. Today we know how much it costs to have such an investigation if it is not well - defined. Many of the things involved in the privatization of banks already exist, but new information is now available and should be examined specifically. We need to examine all of this, and we need to be sure when we do tests like this, that after something's doing. It's just what I'm trying to say here, that we treat public funds well. I think these changes to the law are of the good. There was a great deal of solidarity on the committee, there was a good discussion on this matter, as I now feel it is usually part of a administrative and surveillance committee. It's just going very well, and I'm very comfortable with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u46	V.E.G. President. In 2011, I was involved in working on the bill that later became the law on the II Parliamentis research committees. I think that all of us involved in that commission have come to realize that in view of experience, changing the law was necessary, in many respects experimenting with laws in a new field. I think all of us have faced the fact that once there was any experience with the act of the law, there might be a reason for a review. The bill on which the president of the Parliament and the Presidency Committee have proposed, I believe, all the points presented in the work of research committees in recent years. It is my opinion as to other members of the administration and monitoring committee that the bill is well designed to repair the limitations found in current legislation. As others have explained, in this regard it may be most important to ensure that a judicial hearing is ensured at the council before the proposals are agreed that the Council's resolutions that assume the establishment of the research committees are well established in advance. A real estimate of the field of research and the level of knowledge is given, in any case, the way in which the work is to be done. As previously mentioned in the discussion of this matter, it must be recognized, in the case of the two research committees that have worked on the basis of the 2011 law, on the other hand, on the Congregation Book Fund and on the savings fund, that on the part of the council it did not work properly in advance so that we could put it into words that the work did not become as specific as it might have been. The contribution of the reporting work increased, the cost of much more than anyone realized, and the problems that arose along the way. This is what I would like to say in general about the bill that, of course, I support. It will be late with legal instructions that can prevent a person from losing something in the process. On the other hand, I believe that a prime committee and those who have the bill done what is possible and practical in directing this work in a successful direction. The changes in materials contained in the bill do not require any particular discussion on my part today. But I'm going to take a little part, like other speakers, to treat a Senate resolution on a study of the personalization of the banks since 2012, which, as mentioned earlier, has been with the president for some time. We have considered this bill to be carried out before further development. As stated in the provisional regulations in the bill, a administrative and monitoring committee is expected to be at work related to the treatment of the Parliamentary Directive and to evaluate the factors to be considered. In fact, events during the last days, signs from the U.S. Marshal's agent and discussions that have taken place in a administrative and surveillance committee may indicate that the next step would be expected to be made a special investigation in order to review the arrival of the German Bank Hauck & Aufäuser to sell the Bank. A member of the Generals suggests that this will be a short and very progressive study aimed at specific, very limited aspects of the case that have not been addressed in previous observations and studies of the events involved. I can agree that such a situation is desirable. It is then the task of the previous administration and monitoring committee to discuss how otherwise the proposal from 2012 will be carried out on a global review or a global study of the centralisation of banks at the beginning or at the beginning of the century. I think that all of these have come to realize that research committees are and can be very important tools and that it is an important part of the Senate's surveillance role to set up such a committee. However, it is also a delicate form, and it must be taken care not to abuse it, not to abuse it. It must also be noted that such research committees do not enter the realms that other governments, the control department, or the justice system have. This is an important device, but care must be taken not to abuse or abuse it. I also hope that in the cases where we are faced with a question about whether we should have such tests, people will not lose themselves in delinquency, as has sometimes happened, but will take the role and position of these committees seriously. According to one estimate, at some point politicians may be tempted to strike political cones by installing research committees or offering suggestions on the rest and this. But I think it's important that both of us at the council and those who later come take this very seriously because if research committees start to become arms in the daily political struggle, they lose the position and credibility that is needed. V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna keep those words any longer, but I'm celebrating like the rest of the solidarity that's been on the side of the case at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u47	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The president of the Einar K. Guðfinnsson and his good staff for the fine work involved in the preparation of this bill. Since then, that work has been taken away from the work. The management and monitoring committee, and the results were carefully analyzed. It may have been unanimously felt that the work was being done in a very good way. I think it's important that we realize that this is a case, as I said in the previous answer, it's not a dancer but one of the cornerstones upon which the Allied Council rests. One of the strongest and most important roles of the Generals is the maintenance role. Therefore, the Commission should be kept as strong as possible. This has been a failure. We know that in the past, at least while I've been here, evolution has been developed. Rather, we're sliding to the point that the execution of the execution has been involved in increased internalization within the lawgiver. In recent years, good peace has been restored. This study committee bill is a tremendously important tool for the council to handle that service. The bill, in effect, involves significant changes in the laws set up in 2011. They were a child of their time. We set a law to answer a particular need, but it has to be said, just as it does, that the law has not really grew old. Various probes have been identified on the one being replaced here. But I think it's important for people to realize that the bill is the highest. A president proposes here a part of a chain of changes that have been occurring in the last four to five years, all streets from the center of the last government until this day, in which legislation is anticipating the vital role of the World Council. I believe that since 2011, we have in effect made six important changes that will agree with this role. First of all, changes were made in the General Assembly of Congress, which developed in late 2011, one of the WCC, a administrative and surveillance committee, in effect assigned the role of the Generals to the main stock. At that time, not everyone agreed, but experience has shown that it was very positive. It's under control of success. paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson has taken care of a board of directors and monitoring committees during the development of this new role very well. It has especially been noteworthy that the source of the authority mentioned in this article has been taken into consideration. When I look at their record, I can only say that there are men there who have worked out all the issues, some very complex and tricky, in a perfunctory way. Of course, it has been a pleasure to observe that both political wings have made efforts to reach conclusions based, not on the political bowling beat of each day, but on objective and objective coverage. It's important that the council has developed that way, I'm not talking about our committee as a board of directors and patrols, which, in this way, can give these actions a great deal of consideration. Like what? paritaprevir The farms of the Birgir's Ármannsson were killed earlier by various devices that the General has, but sometimes men rely too hard to strike. These devices must be used with careful care and well suspected. Second, there is also a requirement for increasing the rights of members of the Parliament for information, which at least matters to me as a member of the Parliament very much. Third, to request information and information, the right of the smaller section within the panels is specifically required. Often this is the case with problems because the smaller portion feels that their rights are being passed. Encouraging more things goes on to try to make the government stand every time to get all the information she wants, because only by drawing all the data on the table and never trying to hide the evidence can humans finally get along with the facts. However, it is often required of information that has not been exposed to the Commission resulting in unnecessary recovery and conflict in these sales. Fourth, however, it was still a matter of proper information to the minister of information. Today, we know what has been a long time here how frustrating it can be, especially for the disposition of vulnerable members, to ask questions, and not to receive repetitious answers. I could give you an example that rises up during the period, which is the case with special day - to - day members of the council, such as the Supreme Court. Vice President Kristján L. Möller, is deeply at odds with not having received sufficient information. I'm not going to get into it any more. However, it is very important that in the face of openness the duties of the Ministers to provide information to members of the council. At the latest, the outstanding laws on the research committees were set in 2011. It's the laws we're now developing and making a very good change in the bill as the highest. The president has made a recommendation. I think it's important for us to realize that this is a process of continuous evolution. Under the top. The president of the Einar of One K.. The Son of Guðfinnsson has been sincerely trying to strengthen the tools the council has and, at the same time, to make the adjustments so as not to raise unnecessary differences that could be discussed and left behind in the past without the fact that it leads to long - term conflict. These changes are all for the better, and they are based on experience. Like what? paritaprevir In Birgir years, a year's farm Ármannsson spoke a big talk that would tend to be a high - speed blow in the heat of the game. They tend to recommend studies that have potentially weakened moods. That's all I can say. I remember, as I know, the highest. The president also remembers that in 1994 a proposal was adopted here for a committee that was to investigate in particular an innocent statement that fell on the minister's office one day on the phone, where a certain official was requested to celebrate Christmas. This led to many days of discussions and then a minister who stands here as a fourth member of the city of Reykjavík, in the north, did not know where the weather came from. In other words, people must be careful how they use these tools. But the other is to think that the human soul is weak. And because of what? paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year said that humans may tend to offer proposals to investigate matters simply to raise them up and possibly to make their political opponents suspicious, we also need to build up the devices for these research committees to protect them. It's done in this bill. I think it's very positive to the bill that the President of Generalis is assigned to improve the chances that the research tool and its sources will be used to strike some dreary cones into every day's skunk. So in the bill, it is assumed that the general President's review of the procedure will require a written review of how the project is developed in the motion proposed before it is permanently completed. He is also authorized to call for advice from agencies that are normally to be called upon whenever such decisions are made by the Allied Council, i.e. A member of the Generals and according to government accountants. As you examine how the Council has built its instruments in the last two decades in order to carry out its Constitutional duty in order to provide the European Commission with support, it can only be said that it has been successful. I remember when they agreed here about 20 years ago to set up the office of the Allied agent that they were not at peace. I well remember as part of the team that was being conducted, that they wanted to advance the wings of its office by giving the Commission much greater right to decisions related to the opinions and investigation of the agent. But we succeeded and have since managed to keep that office very independent. Similarly, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures has developed in a very positive way. These two institutions, and then the third, found within the Generals' Law, are, in effect, a collection of devices that the General can use both to sustain the European Commission and also to improve itself. It's important too. I honestly said here earlier that when you look back and look at the proposal that was agreed here in October 2012 on the assessment of the bank's private stakes, which was a big deal of heat at the time, I must agree, although I have supported it as very many at the time, that the motion has not grew up well. It is, in effect, an example of how positive it would have been to have been through the President of the Generals with the support he has of the Generalist, according to the events of a government accountant, and, of course, his fine legal defects in the legal field, in order to define it better. When you look at it today, large parts of it already exist, as we know, and were already there when the proposal was agreed. It also contains elements that if a person is to try to understand what is requested there, he could sit at it for eternity. It is vital that humans keep that in mind. All of this can be learned. Likewise, we can learn from the two reports published by research committees to date. I think it is quite widespread that it did not necessarily mean time or money. I say for myself that the assessment of a camp loan fund was of no value to me, and it didn't mean anything to me that I thought was a point of view. The conclusion is this: It is likely that if not drawn up a box that enables the collective wisdom of the council to limit the point of such proposals, people will spend not just a lot of time but a lot of money in order to find out the results that are not worth what is spent. I believe with this bill, at least, it's been done. minimise the probability of such a thing. Of course that's the way it is, so I'll give you the highest compliments. The President of One K. The Einar of Guðfinnsson, to cause who owns it. It doesn't matter who's the president of the council. The president who now serves that position, I trust in all things and to take a objective and objective stand on each matter. But in my 25 - year career in these sales, there are some individuals who were very active in the political cock and who never knew how to deal with it. That doesn't change the fact that here we are making a very decisive attempt to move this into a form that reduces the likelihood that this research tool will be abused, and it's important to think about it. To that end, I express my natural support for this matter. There's one little thing, actually two, that I wondered about. I'd like to ask you what. Chairman of the Committee. In the 5th. it is assumed that if the committee finds out that a certain person has committed a crime, it can be brought to the State Attorney General after the incident. The committee should also include a report on this in the report it published. It's an official report. Okay, so far. However, the article in particular shows that the person who is affected by such factors is not able to appear before the committee and express his position or following the events will express his objections. I believe that it is on the edge of what the council can allow, and that's why at least I wanted to do so. with all kindness, it is directed to what. Chairman of the Committee whether this is something that should be considered only by men. All I have to do is sit on the committee as a backup but I've been there for the last few days to review this matter. I've come to realize that there's a lot of people there who want to do their work very well, but this system here remembers, at least In mine, but in vile memories, including. regarding a similar procedure when men were here before one of the council's committees placed in a position that eventually led them to the court without ever having a chance of putting themselves before the committee of the council they were in, in order to promote their cause and defence in their own words. The committee needs to take a closer look at this aspect. Second, I think only of the second sentence in paragraph 1. The law in which I like the wording that the proposal for an investigator's order has a different position than any other recommendations made at the council. When suggestions are presented here for the release and discussion at the council, they go through 1st. is referred to by committees. Depending on the committee chairman, the majority of the committee's members, whether the proposal ends there or whether it is forwarded to the council. It never happens unless you agree to the proposal. However, the wording of this paragraph is in such a way that I cannot understand it any other than to suggest a proposal to be referred to by the NTSB, if it comes from an individual member of the body rather than the Committee itself, to a management and surveillance committee that gives the council her opinion of the President of the Generals. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: ◯... before voting for the proposal for a second discussion. So it seems to me that the proposals for a research committee have a different situation than other suggestions to the extent that, whether the council is going to give them its authority or not, it is necessary to give them a final talk for the council. The Congress then stands in the face of accepting or rejecting the proposal. It is a conclusion that may be the goal of a person who makes such a suggestion and not necessarily with noble motives. Madam President. That's what I wanted to ask you. The senator and chairman of the administration and monitoring committee on the right understanding, because I'm a Fundamentalist and the letter reads like that, and then people must follow it. Isn't that right for me? Chairman of the Board of Directors and Control Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u48	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir This is why the son of Skarphéðinsson had to make an excellent and extensive speech. I agree with him about the role of the Commission and monitoring committee, how important it is, and how we can successfully develop that job into the future. I think we're taking some positive steps, and one of them is definitely the bill we're about to replace. There were a number of points. A senator mentioned. First of all, pars. the bill that refers to the treatment of the management and monitoring committee and how it should deal with the situation. Hv. One senator asks if the article should be understood in a way that all matters that appear before the committee should be referred to for votes and payment at the Assembly Hall. It is true that these words can be understood, but they are indeed conditional because certain grounds need to be in place for that to be done. Then there is our second political judgment and rationality, which concludes that it is not reasonable to believe that the issues involved in the hearing of the council and to travel to members of the council are generally taken care of in a vote at the Assembly Hall. It's a general policy that I think many people are definitely in favor. However, there may be exceptions, e.g. if the committee determines that further research is needed, if further information is needed on the subject's subject, then the committee must consider it a duty to call for such information. I agree with the main thoughts involved in the council's approval of studies that come to the Commission and Control Committee or when such matters are referred to by committees, they should aim to see that this is done at the Hall of Congress. Then you point it out. Senator on Fifth. to correct the bill in which it is considered that it is suspected in an investigational committee that judicial action has taken place which is announced to the prosecutor, and that the offense is also referred to or suspected by public officials, the case should be referred forward, and the senator asks whether the commission is not obliged to give the individual a chance to express herself, whether she is not obliged to provide the right to the relevant person. It is now that if a court order is represented, it is safe to ensure that the individual is allowed to use such protests in the treatment of the case there. But I call attention to the fact that while the committee is not obliged to do this, there is nothing to prevent such a warrant from being given under investigation. In fact, this was one of the findings found in a research report on a camp loan fund, especially at the time. A senator criticized, and in many respects I can accept that criticism. It brought a number of serious charges, and although it was not thought that punishment was involved, people were given a heavy charge, which they then did not have the opportunity to explain. In general, I feel that it should be the rule, the general rule, that if they are suspected of doing something wrong in their job, they will get to explain their case. Other than that, I thank you for this coverage of the bill and hope that it will turn into law within a few days, preferably this week.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u49	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answer is quite clear. I understand the instructions given in the second last paragraph of paragraph 1. to the extent that a project proposal for a research committee is expected to come back in here to the end of the bill. However, there may be a situation where a board of administrations and monitoring committees feel that the proposal is unconvinced, as has been true of other Senate protocols, which are not seen for a particular reason, on technical grounds, to continue working. I'm just saying that I'm not going to pat on this skin any more. Yet, I do not deny that despite the explanation of a problem. A senator is a little hard for me to accept a saying that's like this, with the permission of a president: It is not mandatory to allow the person to express himself specifically about the decision of the investigator to file a case to the district attorney or report it to the Attorney General or Ministry. 2 mg. Information on these reports should be published in the report of the investigator. If the committee has reason to speak to the head of the agency, this could possibly lead to a very mild repair, such as reminders. This is usually the case between the Agency's head and the employee and is not published in the public squares. Second, even if a case was sent to the prosecutor, he might find that the case does not justify further investigation. However, the individual's name has been uninterrupted in the pages of the report, and there will always be news, in this case possibly as a result of failure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u50	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make it very clear that I'm in the basics completely agree with what was presented in a lawsuit. paritaprevir Dozens of Skarphéðinsson's son, both in the interpretation of Article 1. The bill, for all aspects of the programme to be agreed on by the administration and monitoring committees to be made up of these halls, should be over here, but it should, nevertheless, be brought up to certain relevant criteria and included in them, we cannot be seen. With the other show, I want to thank you. A senator for recording this case. I think it's kind of two things: one way or the other, we're talking about a criminal act shot at the justice system; the other is a violation or a possible violation of the duties of a public employee. It makes me feel absolutely clear, and I would have wanted to force it in practice after that. A senator has already pointed out that the person must have a protest. In fact, it is in the laws on the rights and responsibilities of public workers that they have the right to protest if they are considered guilty of wrongdoing. I like it. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's anorexia, then, has pointed out a very important point that I feel it is necessary to look into, but this is my firm stand on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal for interpretation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 293/? 2015 of the change in X-ray. Annex to the EEA Convention, which includes company rights. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Department of State by the Directors of Bristís Kjartansdóttir, by the State Department of State and the Harpa Theodórsdóttir, by the Ministry of Professional Road and Neonography. With the proposal, as previously stated in this court, the Alduary warrant was sought to confirm the decision made by the Joint EEA on an Annex to the Community Convention at the EEA Convention of 2 May 1992 and to enter the Treaty of the European Parliament and the Council on annual accounts, collection accounts and related reports of certain types of enterprises, of the change to the European Parliament and Council Directive, and of the collapse of the Council. The reading is complicated, but it is more pronounced in the committee's opinion. In short, the Directive deals with the annual accounts of certain types of enterprises and is aimed at reducing the administrative costs of SMEs, improving the business environment of enterprises, improving the quality and controlability of the information published. The directive contains changes in the size of an enterprise. This was for a special consideration on the Committee because of the high percentage of Icelandic companies being represented by a micro enterprise. The Directive defines small, medium-sized and large enterprises, with more requirements for annual accounts in larger companies than in smaller companies. The directive contains a special selective section of the so - called micro-species or micro-germs. Indicatement of this section allows Member States to improve the business environment of all the smallest enterprises further. In a meeting with a man. This was a significant talk by the State Department, and it stated that about 98% of the enterprises in Iceland are considered to be small enterprises or micro enterprises. In fact, most of them are defined as micro enterprises and fall by 80% of enterprises on land under the definition, of which, of course, is very special and definitely unique in the environment of which these legislation embraces. The introduction of this directive therefore calls for changes in the law of No. 3/2006, about annual accounts, and it should be reported to the highest level. Industrial and commercial secretary has already provided a bill for this material. It contains the rules for micro-organism, and this aims to establish what I have previously introduced to validate the directive's selection of specific rules for such small enterprises. The bill is now being discussed in the Economic and Business Committee. Hv. As I said before, a foreign press committee has discussed the matter in its meetings and suggests that it will be agreed on as unchanged. Hv. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason was away from the hearing. Hv. Senators Össur Skarphéðinsson and Otttir Proppé were also absent, but they were written under the opinion of a fourth - mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under countless publications, besides what it says, Karl Garðarsson, Frosti, Sigurjónsson, Elín Hirst, Óttarr Proppé, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdotttir, Þóra Turnu, Árnadóttir, and Össur, the son of Skarphéðinsson, all at once. Parliaments of the State Department outside of Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son, who was absent.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u52	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal for interpretation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 252/2015, change of II. Annex to the EEA Convention on technical regulations, standards, testing and certification. The committee has discussed the matter at its meetings and discussed the case of the case of the son of Brisli Kjartansdóttir, Bryndís of the State Department of State and Eggert made Ólafsson, from the Department of Professional Road and Development. As indicated by the proposal, she is consulted by the Generals' sources to confirm the determination of the joint EEA Committee on the Change of II. An appendix on the production of sprouts This has been discussed earlier, but now the matter has taken place as I shall make a brief explanation. [[For example, consider the following:]] Well, I'd love to see who. A senator left. I'll do it as far as the committee expects, but I know that the story of this case is quite long, so to speak. Senators may be able to look for additional information if necessary. The Regulation requires that the spirit manufacturer be authorized before starting the work and in order to obtain such a license, they must meet certain requirements set in the Regulation. The requirements are the design and organization of services to be used in order to protect from pollution between processing levels or during the management process. The need for easy cleaning of job stations and equipment and adequate access to cleaning and disinfection and equipment, storage, etc. Prior to granting a work permit, the work centres should be evaluated and the requirements confirmed. As I said, the matter has been discussed earlier in the Committee, but it also stated that the cost of the permissible will fall on the producers, but to the Commission it was stated in the case of those who took the case with us from the Council that there was no high costs and that the work would be done in harmony with her earlier recommendation that the workforce would not be unduly burdensome to producers. The proposal was directed to the State Department following a discussion of the Commission's recording of the Regulation on the Constitutional treatment of the EEA, as reflected in Article 2. Their rules. The protocol has been created because several cholines have been infected in Europe in May 2011. As a result, the virus was attributed to a germ, and it was decided to take a certain course of action based on the rules that apply to such activity. So the directive is designed to ensure food security and to protect the health of the common people. Implementing law No. 93/1995, on food, to implement the regulation under the current legislation that the license for the manufacture centre is not required. Comments on the proposal indicate that marine eco-efficiency and agricultural administrators are expected to provide a bill for changing the above laws on the current council. The committee suggests that the matter will be agreed with. Hv. Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's senator was absent from the case. Hv. Senators Össur Skarphéðinsson and Otttir Proppé were also absent, but they were written under the opinion of a fourth - mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under countless publications, along with the one here, below. and the men of Karl Garðarsson, and Sigurjónsson the son of Sigurion, and Elín Hirst, and Óttarr Proppé, and Silja the daughter of Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and Árnadóttir the daughter of Turrah, and Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u53	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal for interpretation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 230/? 2015 of the change in XX. The Annex to the EEA Convention on Environment. Hv. A foreign press committee has discussed the matter at its meetings and has received a meeting to discuss the matter of the case of Bryndís Kjartansdóttir from the Ministry of State and Kjartan Ingvarsson, of the Environment and Resource Ministry. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision made by the joint EEA on an Annex on Environment, as well as the annex to Council Regulation and Council No. 11013/200, about the transport of waste. Qualifications, No. 660/2014, is aimed at improving waste transport follow-up and monitoring and preventing illegal waste transfers between countries. There is no wealthier demand or expenses for those who are involved in moving wastes between countries. This was observed in a discussion in the Committee, but monitoring guidelines are made more clearly and with increased requirements for monitoring. These include regulations in the Regulation for effective monitoring, follow-up and non-recognizable opinions in the previous Regulation and local legislation. The protocol also states that a risk assessment-based surveillance programme should be established and evaluated based on the identification of local authorities and toll authorities if available. The monitoring programme should be directed to companies, aphid organisations and transporters and shall include the objectives and priorities, observation areas, information on expected monitoring, partners and partnerships, information on the training of the Rapporteur and human resources and monitoring information. The schedule should be reviewed every three years in light of experience, but yearly reports for monitoring for EFTA should be submitted. The implementation of the Regulation here requires adjustment of the law No. 55/2003, waste management. Comments on the proposal indicate that environmental and resource ministers are expected to present a bill for changing the above laws on the current council. The Commission points out that according to Regulation, at the latest on January 1, 2017, any new monitoring plans should be made to speed up the bill work whenever possible. The committee proposes that the case be accepted. As in the previous cases I've read here, there was some difficulty. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason is away from the case. Hv. Senators Össur Skarphéðinsson and Otttir Proppé were also absent, but they were written under the opinion of a fourth - mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the light of the committee. The foreign - language committee writes what is here and why. and the men of Karl Garðarsson, and Sigurjónsson the son of Sigurion, and Elín Hirst, and Óttarr Proppé, and Silja the daughter of Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and Árnadóttir the daughter of Turrah, and Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal for interpretation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 229/2015 about the change in XX. Annex to the EEA Convention on Environment. The Commission has discussed this and has been Kjartansdóttir by the Department of State and the Ministry of Environment and Resources by Brudís Kjartandótttir and Kjartan Ingvarsson. This proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint EEA Commission on the change of the environmentally-relevant environment and to enter the Convention of the European Parliament and of the 2010/75/ESB Council from 24 November 2010 on emissions in industry. There are integrated pollution prevention and pollution monitoring, as well as related types. For further explanation, this directive combines seven older types of integrated pollution prevention and goes beyond previous directives. It is based on a comprehensive approach to take into account the overall environment, i.e. air, water, and soil pollution It is not a separation but a decision of unity. The main indicators involved in the Directive are decisions on best available or accessible technology, defined as BAT, and their values with the appearance of the so-called BAT findings which should determine the conditions for activities in the working areas. This means that there is a longer outcome in specific pollution prevention measures and there are more strict treatments for activities related to practices. In addition to the directive, the decision was made by the European Commission on No. 229/2015 adopted 12 decisions made by the European Commission, all of whom have support in the directive and provide further information. The decisions are rediscovered and updated by older types and are aimed at increasing the clarity of the rules. A respectable president. It is estimated that the costs for the implementation of the directive, which we address here and related types will be negligible and that it will be included within the EEA's current budget. However, increased demands can lead to costs for enterprises from revisions and updating job vacancies. However, the Commission points out that in the opinion of the environmental and transport committee on the uptake of the directive, as agreed with Article 2. The Council's Regulation on the Constitutional Management of EEA states that in a number of occupations for contaminated activities in this country, stricter than stated in the current Directive. This discussion led to the conclusion that it was not the Commission's assessment that it involved a significant expense or significant change from that of an existing source. The introduction, however, calls for changes in law No. 7/1998, the method of loyalty and pollution. Notes we propose that the Environment and Resource Minister is expected to present a bill for changing the law on the current council. So the committee proposes that the case be agreed. Hv. Vilhjálmur Bjarnason was absent from the case. Hv. Senators Össur Skarphéðinsson and Otttir Proppé were also absent, but they were written under the opinion of a fourth - mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hence, under the heading, the writer of this article, as well as the caller. The men of the assembly of Karl the son of Garðarsson, Frosti the Sigurjónsson of Winion, Elín Hirst, Óttar Proppér, Silja Dögg, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, the Þóra, the Árnadóttir of Ezra, and the Össur of Skarphéðinsson,
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-24-117.u55	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal for interpretation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 197/2015 on the change of I. An Annex to the EEA Convention on Health of Animals and Plants. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Department of State by the Directors of Bryndís Kjartansdóttir and Eggert Ólafsson from the Ministry of Employment and Development. With this suggestion, allegatory sources are requested to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 197/2015 on the change of I. An Annex to the EEA Convention on Health of Animals and Plants and to meet up with the Council Regulation of the European Parliament and Council No. 1069/2009 from October 2009 on health rules regarding animal and secondary non- food producing products and the breakdown of regulations from the European Union No. 1774/2002, plus six related regulations. In accordance with Regulation 1069/2009 there are regulations on which situations to dispose of animal-derived products in order to avoid spread of the risk to human and animal health. The directive replaces earlier regulations on the same topic since 2002 and is intended to clarify the rules, eliminate uncertainty that has been established on the scope of the Regulation to ensure the safety of food chain, simple licences, reduce the burden of stakeholders and identify the target endpoints of the manufacturing process, but the definition is important, and it seems to have a lack to explain whether products fall below the scope of the Regulation. In the opinion of the employment board on recording of the types in the EEA Convention, as mentioned in Article 2. The World Council of Parliamentary Treatments of the EEA, underlined close consultation with thetainers and other stakeholders on the case, and directly on the part of relevant advisers to find solutions to avoid unnecessary costs, delays or other adverse problems for domestic manufacturers. Following the review of this committee, it was noted in comments on the proposal that regulations were sent to stakeholders for review and that the employment and innovation agencies have been found with stakeholders on the disposal of risk sites and solutions for these products. It also states that earlier regulations on the same topic since 2002 were in force in this country since 2010 and included considerable costs for implementation and monitoring but that there is not expected to be an additional cost for the uptake of the types that this decision by the joint Commission is involved. However, the implementation of the Regulation here requires changes in the law of No. 25/1993, about animal diseases and warnings against them, No. 96/1997, on slaughter and slaughter products, and on law No. 22/1994 for monitoring of food, cream and seedy products. In a comment, we say the suggestion is expected to be the highest. Marine and agricultural Ministers provide a bill for changing the above laws on the current council. So the committee suggests that the matter will be agreed with. Hv. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason was away from the hearing. Hv. Senators Össur Skarphéðinsson and Otttir Proppé were also absent, but they were written under the opinion of a fourth - mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under countless written representatives. Foreign Affairs Committee, i.e. The one standing here. and the men of Karl Garðarsson, and Sigurjónsson the son of Sigurion, and Elín Hirst, and Óttarr Proppé, and Silja the daughter of Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and Árnadóttir the Þóra of Turrah, and Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson.
