ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u1	At a meeting of August 23, 127, the Council's Reunion Directive for a national hearing on the continuation of discussions about the involvement of Iceland with the European Union, referred to a board of administrations and monitoring committees. The matter was to be addressed to the foreign committee and corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u2	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Industrial and Business Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Ministers of Social and Housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u3	Mr. President. Contracts and legislation on big business in this country changed with treaties on the construction of international bodies in a disaster crisis. Even there was a number of them. The agreement that the tax rate would not be allowed to rise in the future and that the rules about recovery of interest rates should not be changed. It simply means that there should not be a rule on a thin self-finance for an aluminium company, as most countries have done, and it has been repeatedly pointed out that there is a need here. With the arrival of the Alcoa treaties and Flavouries, tax agreements of the former nations were revised, and now also a ban on tax increase and the restrictions on the reduction of interest rates. The taxation of Alcoa, mentioned in Kingdom News this weekend and the highest. As a result, financial and economic secretary was asked about the terms of the investment agreements with the company that prevented the introduction of land interest restrictions. It seems to me that there's a law that has the highest power. In the news, a minister proclaimed about the thin self - interest of reaching the local aluminium needs to revise his investment agreements. So I want to ask the highest. The financial and economic secretary whether he agrees that the way out of this complex is a review of the agreements with the authorities and if he is able to establish a good deal with them on these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u4	A respectable president. I've already proposed a financial and business committee proposal to change the law, which leads to our putting for the first time the rules of the thin self-finishing process. It is a law-change that is highly influenced by what is commonly practiced in OECD countries. How this adjustment will affect valid investment agreements and laws authorized by such agreements must be made. But I notice that in the media, and I find why. Similarly, a senator is doing so here. There are certain claims that I have taken care of. It's, for example. According to one estimate, there was an abnormally high level of interest. I've got to get in there. A senator will determine if he or she has any information on this. What's that interest in the company as a matter of course? A senator is referring to? How much higher are they than the market is in general? They mention accumulated interest payments over a very long period of time, perhaps a ten - year period, saying: "See how much interest has been paid. In this case, however, it cannot be forgotten that some 100 billion investments are being brought into the country. If you look at the confirmation of these specific investments, you will see that it was never expected that a income tax of such a large investment would be paid that does not make any money during the investment period until the year, if I remember correctly, due to 2020. We've known this since the project began. Other than that, I say in general: these issues cannot be discussed on the basis of individual enterprises, especially when there is no information or reason. A senator has done nothing to expand the information in the council on this matter. [[The president calls.]] But in other respects, my reaction is in proposals before the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u5	Mr. President. I didn't mention the amount of interest or anything in being the highest. Minister spoke of here. I was just pointing out that if there was to be a law on a thin self-finishment, it would not cover the international aluminium companies because of the investment agreements. I asked the highest. Minister on the clip we'd be in if we wanted to, I understood the Kingdom News this weekend to the highest. Minister thought it could be done. My information says it's not. In fact, I think only legislation and contracts with the aluminium companies - if we were to try to get some tax from the aluminium companies, it would be a energy tax, but we can't go to a thin self-finance unless we're taking up the investment agreements. That's the problem I wanted to talk to the highest. A financial minister because there is a clear problem that needs to be handled. [[The president calls.]] The question is, What is our common position if we want to enter the investment agreements?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u6	A respectable president. It's not surprising. A senator offers yet another tax when it comes to professional matters. People have written letters to companies. I'll point, for example. to the letter that Steingrímur J. Sigfússon wrote as secretary of finance to the Straumsvík Empire, where it was specifically promised that such taxes would not be adopted. It is also a requirement to find in investment agreements where it is promised that no such new tax pay will be given to the company. [[Up front.]] So I don't understand why. A senator is concerned about the investment agreements, which actually state that they don't care about what is going on in them because they are willing to pick up taxes that are promised not to accept the same agreements. I note here that it is by far the best thing to take such a discussion from evidence and some facts. For example, I ask: Is it because of the growth of these companies to their mothers, but is it generally necessary to make similar partners on the market? Is that the case? I haven't seen any of that stuff. If so, it can be said that it would be a problem not to be able to change the agreements. [[The president calls.]] If that's not the case, I don't really see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u7	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance on matters related to the same issue. I think that there are, of course, reasons that if we set the rules of a thin self-finance now, as suggested by the council since 2013, the effect would have to be evaluated. The suggestions were based on results from a 2012 work force. This was referred to in March 2014 to the government. In March 2016, when there was no suggestion, I decided to reimburse this bill, revising from the sources that had been received. The case is now a financial and business committee, and it's had positive comments. We'll get suggestions, that's well, from the Ministry of Economics and Economics as part of a new bill on how to act against tax practices. However, there is a possibility that we will determine the impact of such rules on investment agreements. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir referred to earlier. There are also other gaps if there is a will to get such money out of the country. It is important to assess the effect. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of what was mentioned earlier: The electronic tax on which the power tax was applied may be one way to ensure that the quality of the resources that have been used here and have received special favors in investment agreements pay a fair price for the resource, but the electronic tax was so removed: Has the Ministry's proposals been determined whether these investment agreements will affect these investment agreements? Will it have some effect on them, or is it something that has been defined? Then I'd like to ask, in view of the fact that I had a question about the interest of these companies, interest payments and taxpayers, which the Department of Economics could not respond for normal reasons: one of the companies then published all the information followed by their own initiative. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Do not need such information, chief. President, so we can actually take a stand on the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u8	A respectable president. The suggestions I have offered for the council are suggestions that have been in the past as minister of finance. The senator here spoke in the government for four years and did not offer such suggestions. But okay. We agree that such suggestions are needed. I believe that they should be standard rules that meet international comparisons. I notice that a lot of interest is in trying on the rules to individual companies in the country. I haven't had one of those tests done. I also ask myself how long the list of enterprises should be that I have to investigate specifically for each and every one, how the rules came out for each case. I don't see any particular purpose in going to a study like that. Of course, we need to be agreed by the government. It's just gonna have to be seen. I feel that when it comes to big business, it's in some way that they are sucking out the interest that is far out of market interest. I just haven't seen those data. I'd like to have someone who claims this -- I can tell you that the state radio almost seems to give them an abnormally high interest when they're 60 billion over ten years old, but I don't think that there's any evidence in that money alone, that growthprofen is beyond what you can get at the general market. But that's what it's all about. It's about how you can't borrow your daughter's companies in terms far beyond what the same company could get out of the market, using these high rates to minimize the profits in Iceland, and avoiding income taxes. I want to fight men to do this. That is why I have offered these suggestions. They are general, consistent with what has been done elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] But I find it very difficult to take the discussion based on what the situation is in the individual companies where I have not been looking at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u9	Mr. President. The reason why the aluminium companies are particularly present here is, of course, that it might be those companies who would most likely be under such rules, i.e. They are international large companies here, with mothers in other countries, where loans come from, and interest payments go. Of course, it's normal for these companies to be listed in this context, Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister speaks for general rules. All right. I agree completely with that. That's why I've put in a bill, and that's why I agreed to refer it to the government and ask her to implement it further. It's taken a long time to get a further implementation. I would've wanted it a lot earlier. On the other hand, it is also natural for us to get some food - and the highest. A minister testifies that the data need to be available - how this may affect the companies being present, how this may affect the agreements made. That is not an unusual question, especially in view of the fact that it has been very difficult, let's say, to get these data from the industry, as I came to see in the previous question. Therefore, it is not unusual to request an assessment of what this will mean, as well as what it has meant for the state's funds, not having introduced rules about the thin self - finance that have gone into effect in all our neighboring countries in the past five, six years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u10	A respectable president. I'm of the opinion that the main thing is to establish a reasonable order and then live with the consequences but not to accept the inability to make fair, general order because there are some contracts that make it difficult to do so. We can only cope with the consequences if we are under pressure. I have no reason to believe that there will be a special problem, and I also have no reason to believe that growing out of these companies is far beyond what would apply if people were going to borrow anything else. It's just gonna have to be revealed when you look at the data. Otherwise, you might take that discussion and simply expand your horizons. It's not long since we've finished here with the proposal of the former government... for a fairly powerful industrial company on the Backsack... who received about 4 billion... in public projects, pays no insurance fees, is promised to train staff and that sort of thing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At the same time, however, concern over whether any other enterprise is not working according to the international criteria for the thin self-finishing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u11	A respectable president. The conflicts in Syria and its surrounding areas have long become very complex and were already very complicated by the recent coup attempt in Turkey. Yet, it seems to a person of every detail that the government of Turkey is now more concerned with gaining support for military action that they are interested in carrying out. Of course, Islam's state, south of Turkey, has no natural friends, which, fortunately, result in a completely terrible phenomenon. It is also in the neighborhood of the so - called Kurds, in an area that is often called Kuristian, a nation that is not recognized in the international community as independent, not yet and does not appear to be in the near future. On the other hand, Turks have had a long argument with Kurda because of their independence struggles, and they have serious disagreements within the country as well as, of course, of course, in other countries around them, such as Iran, Iraq, and Syria. What you hear now is that Turkey uses this situation to fight the Kurds with the presumption of combating the kingdom of Islam. It's news that I find, of course, completely unacceptable, like other things from down there, if not most. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of State on how Iceland communicates with Turkki on this subject and whether the message is clear, that it is not acceptable to use the battle against Islam's state as a villain for fighting the Kurds.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. This is a very important inquiry because the situation in Turkey today is extremely urgent that Turks do not use the situation to impose on minor groups and especially the Kurds. The government's position on this has been clear for a long time. Iceland has even. We encourage Turks and Kurds to initiate peace talks, and in all the international institutions we have access to, by means of the message of respect for all human rights and Turks, we take special note of the status of minorities and Kurda. We are very alert to this, and the message of all the representatives of the government is very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u13	A respectable president. I'm the highest. Of course, a minister to impress on expressing this attitude because the political interests of the State in Turkey are more focused on Kurda. The authorities in Turkey realize that there is more compassion in the world on Kurda's behalf, the end of a nation that can't be peace at all, and, of course, feel compassion for that ethnic offense, compassion that is not there for the kingdom of Islam. Therefore, it is intolerable that Turks allow themselves to violate Kurda's rights by fighting against the enemies I claim the world all in common, which is the state of Islam, or Daesh, as it is sometimes called. I'm the highest. To impress this, a foreign minister might ask, " Is it not necessary to discuss also other countries where the Kurds live in territories that are part of the area sometimes called Kuristian, whether there is no time to discuss the national rights of Kurdah, such as the government of Iran and other countries, so that this group will eventually get a sound in the international community about being people who deserve the same peace and freedom as other nations? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u14	A respectable president. I restate on the fact that when the coup was under way in Turkey, we especially developed the attitude of the Turks to minor groups, and we immediately received a message from the Icelandic government that this would require our attitude, including ours. appear at the scene of the Atlantic Community. I can also tell you what. The senator that at my meetings recently abroad, I have repeated our stand. I've watched Kurda pretty closely myself for the past ten years, watching her pretty carefully, and I'll take care of him. I will keep this in mind especially on the future and in the area where I represent the government of the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u15	President. More recently, much discussion has been made about strong pleas. People are naturally angry with us because our plans are out of harmony with the standards we as a community set for us after a collapse. V.E.G. As a result, the minister of finance said that the candidates smelled self - determination, but it added, too, that the fees are handled like income. And such an enormous amount of income for earners is less than half of the tax. I'm interested in asking the highest. Secretary of finance, which says these payments smell self-employment: So how does he feel about the high money paid by corporate owners in his own pocket? It's like that, of course. Minister knows that firm owners decide for themselves how much money they pay for their business. It may be all right, but what I've brought up in this relationship is that here we're talking the amount of money by the highest proposals. Minister despises. The pay is not a hundred million dollars, and it is estimated to be billions. That's what matters when we talk about discrepancies in this country, when we talk about the rich one percent, that's what counts. What matters is how we deal with politics and the legal system because volunteers are taxed to 50%, but capital tax is only 20%. The fact is that the companies that make the most of the profits and cities most profitable in Icelandic society are the fishing companies. Only from the highest. The financial minister took over, but at the same time, he and his government have dropped their fishing costs, reasoning that the article could not afford them. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to explain to me how he arranges for the vocations to self-employment by 100 million. K. when a few business owners, especially in the fishing industry, pay for billions each year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What form of suicide is this in mind? Minister and what role does he feel he himself have in this enterprise where here is an arrangement that offers 20% tax from this... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u16	President. It's hard to deal with all these questions in two minutes, but I'm gonna do my best. I said that I feel that this has the appearance of self-employment because of the way this company has developed. The shareholder class is not a shareholder who invested in these associates. Rather, he ended up as a shareholder for a contract of slavery when the budget had been forced to take the legal course because they found themselves in the payment of problems. You have a feeling there are thousands behind these communities, but there is an overwhelmingly narrow pyramid that makes decisions about these things at the top of the shareholders. That is how I described it. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that it's important that the candidates are paid as much as they pay, but depending on whether the companies that are under that will pay a special budget or no tax pay due to these proposals will be up to 59%. It is not possible to minimize the magnitude of the taxation that is already under law. But in the end it depends on it, and I'm going to get to the bottom of it, whether these companies are considered to be under the special fiscal tax. With regard to the money paid by other companies in the country, whether in the fishing business or in the rest of the world, I feel that the views I put up with are not relevant at all. Of course, this is quite different. These companies are given bifold tax taxes: First, it is forbidden to pay interest unless it is an inaccessible profit and profit in previous years; that profit has been taxed by income tax, and then the tax is taxed by the capital tax, as mentioned above. It has to be remembered that the final profit tax is, in fact, much higher, and it is a completely different form of profit - making money than what we're discussing here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u17	A respectable president. I allow me to put these two things together, for I agree that these petitiones are completely out of the way of other things. But when we look at the large sums of money in Icelandic society, this rich one percent, the few people who have the best - that's where the money comes in. These are corporate owners who are doing well and making big money in their own pockets. It's good if companies are doing well, but I want to see that money go back into an investment inside the company so it can grow and be nationally practical, that cycle all. V.E.G. Secretary of finance is totally passing my question. I asked about the twin. Of course, it is self - paying, just as the other person is self - indulgent. Does he feel it okay to offer such low taxes on these enormous amounts of money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u18	A respectable president. I can't agree that it's self-employment when it comes to earning a living. It's just not in any context of the discussion that's being referred to and related to the proposals I've covered here. It is claimed that we have dropped our fishing costs to the point of billions and that the difference was paid in interest. That's not true. This government has taken another dozen if not for a third of the billions in hunting fees above what was done during the last terms. Although the rules have been changed, no government has ever taken as much hunting fees in the box as we've done during this terms I'm going to send it. A senator who calls up here in a summary of these payments so that it can retract the words she calls out here, that this is nonsense, because that's a fact. [[That's bullshit.]] Other than that, I have to say, I think taxation is normal. And it is also wrong that money is too much and that it is not back into the business. [[The president calls.]] I'll wake up, for example. Attention to what the largest company in Iceland in the fishing industry, Samherji, has done in this regard. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I encourage people to look at the overwhelming sum of profits that have gone back to an internal investment in that partner and not to be paid out as money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u19	A respectable president. One of the things that will be chosen today is how the nation should be able to benefit from their resources. Seafront trades have increased from 5.3 billion in 2011 to 13.5 billion last year. Fishing costs have at the same time declined from 13 billion in 2011 or 2012 to be 5.3 billion in the past year. [[Up front.]] These are official figures, a respectable president. A gift to pay, says the saying, perhaps a hunter's fee in this case. I'd like to ask the highest. Advisor of how he thinks it proper to finance research, employment development, and innovation in resource sectors, such as marine resources, from which he and his government are given a reason to reduce the cost of fishing so much to the seafaring companies. It was one of the first works of this government to eliminate an investment plan of the former government based on the use of the fishing costs for social projects, to finance research in the marine outings, to care for innovation and employment development, but also to support very important infrastructure, such as a large means of transportation, which all trade routes need, especially the marine industry. I'd like to ask a respectable minister how would you like a top minister? Since hunting costs are not meant to enter, a minister finances these items? How does he want to ensure financing, e.g. future infrastructure? Does the minister see that a rich industry like that of the fishing field is not to be given any further income as it is now? Does he see the same state of life?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u20	A respectable president. First, I'm going to say that everyone else that something was watching at the time is sure to know that the investment plan mentioned here was nothing but the coat or the packaging alone. It had not been financed in any way, and this was one of the wishes established by the former government. [[Up front.]] Yeah, you're absolutely right. Then I'd like to say, because it says that one business road is to finance the infrastructure, that it's not acceptable to expect one trade road to finance infrastructure, transportation, or anything like that. So we must really ask each other: Do we really want only the sector that uses the resources of our country to pay the resources, or do we want every sector that actually uses the resources of the country to pay a price for it? I will then allow myself to say, which does not diminish the power of the sector to invest. I would like to discuss the matter, if we shouldn't have it, so that the sector that uses the resources pays for some kind of moderate price. It must never be that way that investments are reduced. It must also be that way if collect is such a price - and now I'm going to talk as we candidates have concluded - that part of it runs to research, goes to the settlements because of it or to the settlements over and into the state's funds. It hasn't been the rule until now. This, however, is something that we in the forward movement have declared and are eager to see happen in the future. Will do it to get into all the infrastructure at any given moment. Does the senator seem to be talking about? No, I'm sure it's not. Then, of course, we will continue to finance the development of other financial infrastructures, as has been done. So let us not forget that whether it is a fishing business or any other company, they probably pay to the government's high taxes and costs for their activities other than the fees discussed here. I'm very busy with not only looking at the seabed when we discuss these use fees or what we call them but also looking at the big picture. And once again, the resource expenditures discussed here. A senator has spoken for many years, only national tax. [[The president calls.]] Here is the member of the country, on behalf of the United States, again and again, for the specifically taxing of the country's settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u21	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister here gives much misdemeanors, and it is far from talking about the fishing fees in the wealthiest of the country's sectors as a national tax because the cost could be so easily dropped to the settlements to feed and strengthen social projects that are most needed by the sea's most intensively for the food - control systems that starve certain settlements, as it should be done. It is not true what the minister here says that the investment plan of the previous government was an empty paper. It was rewarded, including the fishing expenditures on which this government dropped from 13 billion in 2012 to 5.3 billion last year. In fact, I asked the minister in general about the income of resource use, but I took the seabed as an example, for that is, of course, an on - line example as the wealthiest industry in the country. It has not been the rule to use resources for research and innovation, said the Minister. [[The president calls.]] It was a bit fun to hear that comment because it was just what the former government suggested in the investment program that this government ended at the beginning of this terms. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u22	A respectable president. It has long been observed that this investment plan had become empty. It was a blank piece of paper. Everybody knows that. But I'd like to reiterate what I said earlier on this resource fee that the Conspiracy has been talking for a very long time, it even got four years to try to run it, but it couldn't. It's so easy to let this money flow to the settlements that the government has to do with it. A senator had four years to do so but could not. It's so very simple to do this. We should stop talking about it in this way and start building up and growing under this industry, like other people. She pays her taxes and her taxes to the country. However, we can review whether we should distribute it differently in some way. That's what I mentioned earlier. That's what the forward party talked about. The candidates have fought for some kind of resource charge to go back to the settlements, into the industry, and into the state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u23	Mr. President. Early in spring was spring law on the treatment of the so-called stability domains which, in fact, made significant changes in the economic and business committees. Nevertheless, there were many opinions left that I wanted to to swerve here at the highest level. Minister. In the stated objectives of the law, it was said that the management, full and selling of property, should emphasize transparency, objectiveness, equality, and practicality. In this regard, the highest price or market price should be sought for the property. In the greater part of the committee's list, these views were courted and specifically stressed that a minister would court a contract with the Society that its managers and employees had a well - organized and professional practice involving public property, and further that if two options were made for a disposition of property, the means of choosing a more efficient course. Equality would be achieved by the fact that all who met objective conditions would be able to provide for individual property and that necessary information on the trade process would be available for all potential clients. This is taken from the Committee's list of more part of the Economic and Business Committee, which also specifically stated that the entire work process, such as prices or assessments of the appropriate market, would be based on objective criteria. In fact, I described their viewpoints as part of our discussion. The reason why I didn't trust to support these laws was that I certainly considered certain grammatical reasons for the nature of these assets to be that it would be reasonable to frame their sale into a private rights environment, but described the concern that this environment was anticipating the stated objectives of the bill on transparency and equality, for there, of course, there are different practices when we look to public property and possessions, which are generally in the private rights of the environment. What was put into place was the firm, the private partner Lindahvoll ehf, who, in turn, hired the Lands Bank to handle the sales of the registered funds of Reitum, Shimanum, Eimships, and Seavá, which was the adviser for the sale of a pharmacy. Then they offered to sell the entire estate of the state of Reimum Real estate society after a contract with the National Bank on the sale of registered property in the company's administration. On the basis of Lindahingol's guidelines, complete and selling property, which says that sales and arrangements should take place, prior to an open and equally transparent process, which, of course, is in line with what was in the law, a sale was published publicly after the completion of the market on Friday, August 19 of August, and published at 2:30 p.m. on Monday, August 22, 2016. That's what I'm asking myself. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: In the short term of this campaign, which may be described as half closed, is suitable for professional investors, and in order to obtain valuables quickly, we could not have learned this from, for example, the lesson. The pay case that it would be desirable to engage in an open export procedure, since this was probably not an invitation to attract the public to the table? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister if it is part of the policy that this is primarily intended for professional investors or whether it is intended for the public to come in some way to these potential purchases of these assets. I would also like to ask about the purpose of practicality, i.e. to seek the highest price or market price for property, but to sell in Reitum was marketed on top. The emissary was the same as recorded at Copenhagen by the end of the preceding week. Could higher bids have been provided by an open process dealing with the Reitres? It must be after some time that the value of investments in Reitum is nearly 127 billion, but the market value of the company is about 61 billion. The views have been suggested that the State should first dispose of these assets, for it is not the State's job to be selling and buying such possessions. Is it so that even the speed will have them besides the practicality, i.e. that we get at the highest price for our possessions? Because this criticism has been presented as predicting an increasing real estate price that could possibly increase the value of the state of Reitum. You could say that here, and I'm asking the highest. Ministers, if it should be the policy of the State, for, as I say, practicality there is defined the highest possible price. Is it more important, then, to get rid of property at the appointed time? So I would simply like to ask if a minister believes that the procedure agreed on in the legal process, i.e. whether he believes that the implementation of this process is guaranteed in the declared targets for transparency in the light of this brief discharge process, an equality in the light of this brief discharge process, as well as the introduction of the public or the opportunities of the public to offer these assets, the practicality in view of the demand that was granted and credible? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u24	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator who had considered the existence of the Lindahval Corporation well. which has opened up the website well-shapped.is. There we have published all the data related to the development of the company, how it is being controlled, negotiations made with the company and other information, including the report provided to the Parliament in accordance with the current laws. It also provides an overview of how the Society's property collection has been played in recent months. I'm not gonna take long to trace all these formalities, but what you can find on the website is the board's work rules, governance, administrative regulations, complete and selling property, rules and guidelines for loans and ethics, as well as the report and other information that I've become involved in here. I believe that the union was fully working in accordance with the requirements both in the law and in the agreements made with the Society on the part of the Ministry of Economics and Economics. I feel that it has been handled well with the implementation of sales programs on different property, and I have to say that it was never my intention to have a very strong view of it, beyond what the company agreed with the company, exactly how to achieve the goals it is set there. I was never going to tell the company about deadlines. Also, I did not intend to tell the company how to settle between the bidders when they were looking for the most favorable offer. We've put the company in charge of these matters, but we've put it in a very clear frame. In fact, this question arises, Is there any question as to whether the Society has received the right price in one particular case? We have the market price, and we have the sale price, and I don't see that there's a big difference between us, which seems to me after all I've looked at it, just from this particular basis, that it was quite decent. So people wonder: Well, many now predict that real estate will rise in the future. Then I'll say, " Can we find a better time to sell than just that? ' Why not sell if you're predicting that there's a decline ahead of a real estate market? I wonder if it'd be nice to sell them. I think most people active in the market would say, "No, that would be rather unfortunate time. In general, people assume that the price will be reflected if you look good at the market that is sold to, so I think it was only played with the company. What we've been getting since this few months has been taken over the stability process, and these parts have access to the organization, which are payments on the state's stability account of 57 billion dollars. We've got 57 billion on the state's stability account, and that's in accordance with Lindahuldol's plan, the holdings that have been registered on the open market. We believe that it is normal for the company to have done so, to agree with the agreements. Therefore, it was wondered whether the public's availability to the sale could not have been better ensured. When we have registered property, I don't think we should worry too much about public passage. It is also much more complex to go out to the public, much more expensive, and expensive. It is pointless, in itself, when the Society has already been registered and every day the public is available to go to the market and invest in the appropriate company if they are interested in it. Write bonds have been sold in an open bid, as can be read in the report. Then there's the unregistered stock that's still being treated. [[The president calls.]] Other than that, I would like to refer to the report which is thoroughly and very clear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u25	A respectable president. It is important to be careful about selling state property, the history of the Paying case tells us as well as the history of the privatization of state estates when these two existing administration groups and the defenders of the thrones have sold government property in the past. Therefore, in the United States, we have strongly emphasized that reputable guidelines for government sales are clearly established. But I have to say about the sales that have already begun, and especially what is being discussed here, the sale of the Reimum, which is a registered body, that I have to agree with the highest power. The financial minister's hard work is to find a better way to sell registered property but simply to sell it onto the market, for which general markets are available. It is important that these assets go out and all information is available on the expectations of real estate and all such factors. All such factors are inflated into stock prices at any given time in active markets. I'm much more worried about these things, those are the unregistered assets that are inside this partner, there are bonds on non-market companies, there are bonds on rural society and some other such factors. There I believe we should send a clear message to the government that what will be done will be followed very closely. There is a serious danger of corruption. There we have the position that a large company of itself can, in itself, send a ambassador on the scene and say, "Wait, can't we buy these bonds at our large company at this price? And there is no active market, either with letters or with letters in the comrades themselves, so the price is much more hostile and a much greater danger of corruption. Therefore, at the end of my speech, I want to emphasize that we don't take care to do gnat camels and do suspicious things that indicate no suspicion, such as sale on a registered market. We should be anxious about the goods, and that is, by what means the unregistered goods will be sold.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u26	A respectable president. I appreciate the voter for this discussion, it's important. I'd like to thank you too. The secretary of the budget for his answers and reports. It is very important, quite fundamental, that there is transparency and as little doubt as possible about this sale. We're in a very delicate place. Of course, sales of public property and government property are always fragile, but following the previous one, the privatization of banks, now the last paid case, we can't afford to hear that there is some sort of disposal around this sort of sale or an act of distranslation. I'd like to agree with the last speaker, huh? paritaprevir Páll's Árnason of years are especially true of unsurpassed possessions and possessions, which could possibly be a matter of worth. So it is very important that there be a great deal of transparency and to consult discriminate parties to evaluate the price of such possessions before sale. I want to celebrate this discussion. I welcome the report. We emphasized it when we were putting the laws on these assets and their handling that the Allied people would be well informed, that we would be given careful observation, and that the process would be open and open, and that if anything, I want to stress that we will continue to do so and improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u27	V.E.G. President. We'll talk here about the stability issues. Thank you. paritaprevir For the discussion that is important, Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, for the sale of these goods, and for the most part, it turns toward the upper goals and whether they have followed up. Of course, it was proposed to ensure a clear legal setting on the management of funds and property which come to be due to these assets, at the same time transparent, equal to, and credible. I've got a seat. A financial and business committee like what? Senator. It was the standard and earnest will of the Committee when a legal bill was discussed in the Committee to provide the necessary steps to ensure that everything on board, all the processes of transparency, equality would be maintained for sales treatment and information so that there would be no constant suspicion of such trades. Admittedly, the rightness of the nation's population is an important part of the restoration of the economy, but just as it is, trust in government practices in the handling and handling of property is absolutely reason for it. What, though, should be considered when such a process assesses equality, transparency, trust, efficiency, and objectivity? I listened here to the Supreme Court's response. Financial and economic ministers to agree with him on the core of the situation, i.e. For the format. These criteria were presented in both committee bodies. The Economic and Business Committee and the changes to the bill in that case. This is the same view as it deserves, and it can be found in the 45th chapter of this magazine. Official financial legislation regarding the general administration of the State of property. More of it. The economic and business committees agree that the whole process of sales and property disposition is clear and clear and always lays on the individual decisions as well as ensures that the committee's committees are regularly informed on the progress of these issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u28	A respectable president. We live in a society where suspicion distinguishes view of the financial market and privatization of state property because of what is going on in Icelandic history when it comes to such matters. That's why I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity and be happy to know that in answer to the highest degree. The financial and economic minister will mention him to a Web site, which may not be obvious to all, i.e. The fountain heat, the spring heat, is where you can find a lot of information on all of this. What a fine example! It's work we're supposed to do, and I like to see when a discussion is made from people who have studied this material much more materially than I can or will be able to do in the near future, and that it asks questions. There is a translucency call. It's given. I find this to be exemplary, and though there are always ways to go further and call for more transparency, which is absolutely certain, there is indeed reason to rejoice at the setting of a very simple web that can be looked up moral and fictitious and all that is wanted to be considered in this context. Of course, unrecognized possessions can become a source of anxiety. I'm sure that's what you're talking about. But I find it quite appropriate to mention that this is different from what has been practiced in the past. Since people have not experienced that such processes are highly transparent, I encourage the current government as well as the future government to view this site as an outstanding example of transparency. It allows everyone to look at the data directly and take a better part in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u29	Mr. President. I don't completely agree with the last speaker on that there is a transponder in everything that has been done. These assets number some 60 billion, i.e. The stability property, apart from, of course, Iceland Bank. We're talking about at least 16 societies, Sóvá and Reiti and a drug and Dohop and a Simann, et cetera. What has been called, Regits, received an offer of 9.9% of total money - nothing has been fully informed who was there for over 6% of the state's amount of less than 4 billion dollars, if I know correctly. The Land Bank, on the other hand, has answered that there is mostly the pension fund and the stocks but also some group of investors. It is no shame to be suspicious of these sales, since the government groups now in power are the same as those of the private banks last. We remember, like all of us, how it went. The fact that the Lands Bank handled the project is also part of the suspicion. It's just that way. He lost much trust when the city was in the best - known case. At that time, the chosen group of investors was allowed to buy property at a good price, which multiplied for a very short time, as we shall remember. The fact that this sale was being carried out in a way that was being done during the weekend cannot be regarded as just half closed and not as a very beneficial process. The Continental Bank should have looked back on the pay matter and made special efforts to have it more transparent than it was here. The minister of finance has to answer if he can truthfully say so after this experience, which has been mentioned to have received the highest price by Reachi. Could higher bids have been produced by an opener process? This is an enormous amount of money, with Reita's investments worth nearly 127 billion and the market value around 61. The reason for this approach must also be explained. It's no surprise that an independent and forwarding party will continue on the track that has been traced, selling the property of the fallen banks in a semi-endumed process rather than open. We must also think: Is this the best time to sell the stock market, to rip this off before the New Year's Eve? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it the best way to maximise the price of government funds or to end investors by getting it on sale? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u30	A respectable president. I appreciate the voter for putting this case on the schedule. Of course, it is only natural to observe the progress when there is as much money as there is here. I also welcome a clear explanation. Secretary of finance for this matter. As far as I can hear, people are quite satisfied with the process of doing so. I agree with the cheer that has been given from a talk chair over Lindahestol's home page, which is exactly an example. An enterprise that receives the task of selling possessions -- that is especially two that might be wrapped up in humans, and that is consistent with the aim of selling these assets in the most practical way, i.e. few to the highest price, and the other goal, which is to resolve these issues quickly and safely. This may at times conflict, with the aims, the time framer in this and the price of the day, where people must weigh and weigh each time. There is also a problem that is faced with those who have to sell so much possessions in a short time, at some point in life, possibly in competition with themselves for possessions, i.e. in the marketing work. Of course, a limited number of buyers are here, and when they mention and emphasize the benefits of selling these goods, they must not forget that there is also a decision on buying. I'm gonna mention in the relationship between a private pension fund and something else I think the public involved in it needs to be very close to seeing if they're not making an excellent purchase on that wing as well. [[The president calls.]] Other than that, I rejoice that these matters are discussed here, hoping that they will be taken back some other time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u31	A respectable president. The distrust that prevails toward the government makes the majority doubt if not every action made under its cover, especially financial greed. After the critical and failure of pay sale, all are alert and suspicious of government sales. It may not be surprising. I would have chosen the company of Lindahvoll to be an official partner rather than a government private partner. But it does not change the fact that it can be monitored. And the decision is that it obliges the council and the Economic and Business Committee to account for their duties quarterly. The representatives of the company met with the Economic and Business Committee and reported its activities. I felt that they did it very clearly and that there was no reason to be suspicious of their methods so far. An invitation was made in Reitum, and the government's property was sold at market prices, as is reserved, or at the highest prices. When a company is on the market, it must be the highest price in the world. I can't understand it any other way. So I don't see anything wrong with it. However, there is something in the discussion that says: "Who bought? Maybe it's not normal to give it up, I won't say anything about it. But I'm sure there would be less suspicion among us if it were given up. But I don't see anything wrong with this company until now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u32	V.E.G. President. I'm celebrating this discussion, like most people here today. How important it is that we discuss the matter when it is time to sell the property of the Kingdom! Much has been said about the use of suspicion today. No wonder. It is one of our greatest missions as politicians today to eliminate the suspicions of society from collapse and even before. When it comes to selling property, it is absolutely a requirement for a transparent, open process and, of course, the highest invitation is given. In terms of time to sell, I can't measure it. I trust that the people responsible for the sale will appreciate it at any given time and take the highest offer and wonder when it will be best to sell. But I can't come up here without saying that when the Specialist Party and the Independence Party are in power and sale of government property, which causes a chill, especially in the light of history. At the beginning of the century, they were classified as rulers and sold to the banks, or they were properly instructed at their time. Who does not remember the Land Phone sale, the price was to be taken to build a new national hospital, and we see what the situation today is. We're still arguing about it. That money has not earned it. I encourage all those who come along to work freely and honestly in this regard. As I mentioned earlier, the key is to eliminate the suspicion that exists in the community. I'm afraid she's far too much. But by the way, I hope it's all going well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for bringing this up. Here we are discussing some kind of luxury problem, since the advance party was the only group to present before elections in 2013 that some of the property of the fallen banks should be recovered and therefore put forward a stable supply. A lot of fun was made to the company of the election, but it turned out that there were in the range of some 5,500,800 billion that could be recovered, depending on how it is calculated. Here we will discuss property that the State took for 60 billion in Icelandic associates. That is why it is a joy to discuss it on such a basis. I always doubted that this society should be hosted in the Ministry of finance. I wanted to leave the way that had gone in the last term, to house it at the Secret Bank, as it was done with Hilda then. In the meantime, the government made the decision to house a large collection of property there. However, this was a matter of concern because the Federal Empire has a completely different role than the possession of the State. This led to the decision at the council and to respect it, especially in view of the fact that the setting of the economic and business committee was prepared to observe the sale of these assets is very well-behaved and professional, and therefore I am very pleased. One thing I have to agree with other members of the council is the timer who has been installed here, that all these belongings should be released before the year is due, especially in view of the fact that they may be the same buyers. Pension funds were being relieved. Now they can take out 80 billion and invest abroad. At the same time, they may even consider buying these associates over 60 billion. Time has to tell. [[The president calls.]] But I don't think there's a point in setting the time limit for all the goods to be sold before the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for taking up this matter. It is very important that we discuss how to make personal application or sale of Kingdom parts following the collapse of the bank. Thus, a burning child avoids the fire and only the hope that Icelandic voters and the general public will experience a measure of distrust toward the government or to the whole of this privatization process. The same story has been repeated all too often. We just don't see the same sequence happening, as you can see. With payback. I think we've learned from our mistakes. It is not enough to have just a legal arrangement when speaking of government sales. It must also be a strong and neutral observer who can see to it that everything is done right. I'd like to agree with it as a previous one. Councilmen have mentioned that political wills cannot determine how fast they are private. There's something that needs to be completely explained. Speed is not what we need. We need to build trust, and we often need time to build trust. It is only hoped that when people feel that they are being part of a lot of speed, in a bix, about shared possessions, they will feel bad. The natural question is, How do we build trust? I think we need to make it a little slower, but just before New Year's.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u35	Mr. President. I want to thank you for the fine discussion that has been here. I think she'll show it mainly to the arrangement set up here as a matter of course. Economic and business committees and what. The budget may not be sufficient to obtain information from Linda, for it is important that this discussion be taken openly, especially in order to meet all the goals laid down in the laws of the law. Although it has certainly been suggested that there is a home page with the company's report, the presentation of information alone does not guarantee transparency. It is important that we take this discussion, especially as a result of the suspicion that has existed in the community regarding government sales. A lot of what? Councilmen have referred to the City of Refiners, where the Lands Bank was one of the leading actors and is also involved in these matters. I think it's very important that the discussion be given to the public. Here's why. paritaprevir The Árni Árnason's admonition to follow up on the unregistered property and to monitor how it works. But as I'm saying, this discussion is always going to take place afterwards. It is important, I believe, that our appreciation and support for what we are doing at every step of the conversation with the public are important because even if the information is accessible, it does not necessarily mean that it is understandable. I want to thank you very much. Ministers for the answers and would like to ask him, and that may be the big question I feel is: Is it a normal view that the State should not necessarily be waiting for some particular price development, but is the goal of completing its sales as discussed here? Tells you the highest. Ministers to bind the value of these assets, as it is stated in financial laws, will come back from what has already taken place and what is left of them? Tells you the highest. Minister that there will be some changes in this, in view of the plans made here in us, and it will pay the value of these assets? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u36	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. It seems to me that the way we conducted the council's will to establish this company was fine. I had arranged for the council to have the assets saved at the Federal Bank, where they were primarily following an earlier example. Then we had a good partnership with the Parliamentary Committee to develop this way. We took an era in which we had to bring up this idea and set up this religious structure. So I feel like I've been fine here during the discussion. I understand the view that humans want to take care of every step that the proposed goals are met. I believe they've been reached well. The question is, Is it my own goal to place all our assets in prices before the year? That's not the case. But we have said that it was realistic and likely, since so much of the property would be easy to sell, that much of the property would be in price by year. It seems to be going on at most, as I mentioned, 57 billion have already entered the financial stability account. I expect the autumn months to test sales in other registered partners and after unsolved cases, all in accordance with the advice the company receives. Of course, regarding prices, it is not good to say whether it will work. There is no evidence yet to suggest that property was either over- or underestimated in itself, but it is difficult, e.g. predicting what will be the final value of funds. That will be the future. At least, though, we already have a very large amount of worth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u37	V.E.G. President. I'm going to talk to the highest. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs on the Parliament's resolutions I proposed at the council and a inquiry prepared by the proposal. The proposal for the inquiry is that the Allied Council agree to hide financial and economic ministers from preparing to submit to the Council for legal review of income taxes, No. 90/2003, with subsequent changes, which include a secretary's authorization to implement and set rules that the taxpayers need high costs for travel and from work regardless of travel practices within certain countries and defined employment areas will be given a discount on income tax. In turn, appoint a minister and set such rules. The interpretation proposal taken care of by the inquiry took a slight change from the previous donation, and I remember that it was submitted two or three times before it was submitted in the fall. In recent reviews, we noted that the proposal was merely toward the people who made cars so that we reached out that they also covered public transportation. In recent years, the development of a job area has increased, allowing many more trips to and from work. This trend is positive and strong, but problems also include growing employment areas and traveling long distances to and from work. That can be very costly. It is necessary to increase the impact of public transport in each sector, where a wide pot is broken. Clearly, in some areas of employment, there is no public transportation to go, and people still have to go a long distance in and out of work. Thus, it was suggested that a minister be assigned to submit to the General Parliament the bill to discipline the changes in income tax laws, which include permission of Ministers to set rules to set high costs for tax paid men and from work, regardless of travel practices within certain defined employment areas, to provide a discount on income tax. If the bill gets the legal value of a secretary's outlet and put such rules, as mentioned earlier. My request is as follows: Has the highest. A minister in charge of a procedure like this or another comparable to that might be met by people who pay high cost of transportation to and from work? The reviews made it clear when the case went to the Economic and Business Committee that mainly was the head of the state taxpayer or was opposed to the fact that this was going to be done because it would complicate the tax system. But in the modern computer and technology age, there must be a solution to the situation in order to simplify it in some way to meet this group and thus strengthen the scattered economy of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u38	A respectable president. The main objective of the government in terms of the tax system and the individual aspects of it is to keep it simple, practical, and with the most subtractive in terms of justice. Now it's not that I'm against any kind of parole, but this is how I've wanted to live up to this principle. It asks me if I intend to present a bill so that those who travel long distances to and from work regardless of travel within a certain and defined national employment area will be given a discount of income tax. To begin with, I have to say that it is difficult for me to see that the idea is in the spirit of the views I traced earlier. I think it would be pretty complex, especially when it made no distinction between travel, but we're going to need to investigate it from the European Economic Institutes of State, how to implement it. It may also be asked whether the discount of the income tax system is the most efficient way to achieve the target. I would like to examine other ways if there were a real political wish at the council to strengthen particularly remote based on these views, whether or not there could be more efficient consequences than recovery from income tax. But I have to admit that I have not been wondering about different options in this particular regard. The travel costs for employees to and from work on their own vehicles are usually carried by the pay provider in the form of a driving tool, which increases with the distance they drive. However, a driver's scholarship refers to the payment a employee receives from a payer for using his own car for the benefit of his or her salary and at the expense of his own. This may be both a fixed, monthly, or annual amount of money or a mile per mile [mile] paid on a driving diary or a drive report. Law No. 90/2003, on income taxes, it is permitted to dissipate against driving power because of the cost of driving. I have taken together information on how to make a person's income from a car strengths for income in 2011-2015. On average, the decrease from income tax of individuals, the driver's strength, has been studied by about 70%. In 2015, motor vehicle concentrations were 10.6 billion and nearly 7.4 billion at a convention. Another way in which the employee needs to use his car is by providing him with a specific car. At that time, the employee has unlimited authority over the vehicle. This means that the employee can also use it for personal use and is taken care of for the benefit. It is also true to mention the payments of day - to - day coins and the removals from them. The paydays paid for the travel of remuneration are intended to cover the cost of the remuneration by absence from home, such as the cost to stay and feed, and other intertimely costs. On average, the decrease in income taxes by paying the daily amount was about 98%, or during 2015 it was a total of 12 billion just beds, a deduction of 11.7 billion. In short, I have considered the ways in which we have had in the tax system in order to be met by employees who are involved in the cost of their work. In some respects, the cases I've been tracking are a little different from those in question. A senator asks about, but I've established that this could become a fairly complex idea and it's going a little wrong with the main goals I've traced here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u39	A respectable president. This is the idea that the state will give a tax charge because of travel to and from work, which would most likely be used in areas where the economy is being combined or where human population is in such a way that there has become a small barrier between the capital and, for example, the capital. areas such as Westland, where citizens obviously carry heavy travel costs for second - site employment. V.E.G. A minister speaks of the need for a simple tax system, and this can become a challenge. A simple tax system for who? A phone is a very complex device, but it simplifys a lot of people's lives. We're here talking about simplifying people's lives, making lives easier. Unfortunately, the emphasis of this government seems to be to give a discount of anything but what may really matter, give discounts of the hunting costs of non-rich taxes, but there is no point in giving taxation to people who live under oppressive circumstances. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u40	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ólína the Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir for her input into the discussion and the highest. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson for the answers. In lands we often compare ourselves with, for example, we can. Named Norway, Denmark, and Sweden, is a specific discount system for people who need to go long distances to and from work where jobs have been defined. I don't understand if it's too complicated for us if it works in the countries we prefer to compare ourselves with. A lot of people only in the area I live in, i.e. correspondent in a Western country, in the United States and neighboring countryside, picks up a job in Reykjavík. The latest figures show that every day about two thousand cars go back and forth all the way to and from the Acdéri and the neighboring communities to Reykjavík. Many people have told me that they do not receive money from an employer; they stay with companies that do not participate in travel expenses so that they themselves have a heavy cost of their trips. I have also heard that in areas where people have a lot to drive to and from work for a long distance, people give up on travel and even move away. We need to remember to strengthen these settlements and the individuals living in the areas where there is a considerable search for work, that we have some action, and that we will strengthen these areas so that people will see the benefits of living in their area and not move to where they are going to work. I really hope we can look to Norway, Denmark and Sweden where this arrangement is with people and see how people do it there, and then I hope we can form a similar system here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u41	A respectable president. I thank you, too, for this discussion. I reasoned that there are other ways to look at, and this is where I want to introduce some of them. I think, for example. and that's what it's all about. A senator's work is undisputed that transportation is called for. They alone can respond to viewpoints. I could mention the West in that relationship, especially the south. It would be good to be able to adapt to the greater transport improvements in the area, the space we may have been able to use to strengthen the transportation system. Communication is also vital in this regard. This is especially the subject of the people living in the country and having to go long distances. We have been equipped with a tax system for automobiles in Iceland that particularly weigh on areas where people are more likely to drive larger automobiles, even four - wheel drives, pads, etc., due to a change in winter months, but in many cases it is the car that goes to the highest price category, or up to 65% retails. That's even. for the reason I have appointed a committee to review the product remuneration and other forms of automobiles in the country. Fuel fuel fuels and fuels also come into play in this discussion, in my opinion, but me and Iceland have had a tax system for fuel that has been compared to the world's most heavily fueled systems. We have one of the highest fuel prices in Europe. Even if we are not at the top, we are consistent with what happens at the highest rate. It's all a curse that's going to meet them for good. A senator has been looking out specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. Minister of the I.R. to renew driver's licenses to older people. To me, it was an option to see in the Regulation to renew driver's licenses or the publishing of driver's licenses for people 65 years of age that a doctor's certificate was required, until that date a health certificate is sufficient, as the Regulation says. This will likely mean that people declare that there is nothing that can stop them from driving a car. I don't understand why these ages are set. During the follow-up, I saw that in Denmark this requirement is made at 75 years of age. I would like to ask the minister if there are any scientific reasons behind this age or if anyone has just raised his finger properly and said: "Yes, it's a good idea to leave it at 65 years of age. In this country, everyone has to replace their driver's license at 70 years of age and gain the longest extension for five years. In Denmark this threshold is set at 75 years of age. Five years or 80 years of age, when people are 75 years old, they get an extended driver's license. Thereafter, your license will have to be replaced once a year. And because I've taken into account Denmark above, that's the same thing, after 80 years, a driver's license will need to be replaced annually. There's a bit of a fuss about extending a driver's license, and one year is about to pass, especially when you're about to have a decent age, I say I'm not born yesterday, though I now have less than a decade and a half in the 80's. And it costs, even if people have set up the payoff line at the health care center, but they need to get the health card and the businessman's license driver's license. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister, whether or not she has any thoughts about changing this directive. If she hasn't, I'm asking if she feels that she has no reason to do so, especially since people live longer and continue to live longer and better and longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this question, two teams. First, why is the written health declaration of a driver's license not valid if the driver is 65 years old, as per Article 2. Section 3. A driver's license regulations? Therefore, it is to say that the rule referred to in the query has been valid since 1997. Until 1997 there was a far more strict rule than the applicant had to be required to submit a doctor's certificate regardless of age. However, during a review of driving license regulations and compliance with EU rules, a decision was made that a doctor's certificate could be consulted on the applicant's own health condition. The change was only to people less than 65 years of age who requested an extension of traditional driving rights. Still, individuals 65 years of age and older need to supply a doctor's certificate and all who wish to renew their driving rights. The decision was made as a means of saving and at that time as a model for Dana. At the same time, it was carried out in other EEA countries where the same procedure was taken. Second, the question is, Has a minister considered whether there is any reason to reconsider the rules of driving a driver's license at 65 years of age? In that case, last year the rules on driving driver's renewal were changed. Previously, the person who renewed his license before 70 years of age was allowed to be extended only to 70 years of age. Current guidelines require that the renewal is always provided for five years at the time of renewal, from the age of 65 to the age of 70 years. Thereafter, the time of renewal is reduced in stages. The review did not change the requirements for the inquiry, i.e. for a doctor's certificate to be performed after 65 years of age when requested extension of traditional driving rights. Such measures usually need to be taken into account in the community at any given time and are based on a safety perspective. In itself, however, there is no objection to determining whether there is a reason to increase the age limit. I agree with what happened next. Foreman that we are a little different now than before the time when the basis for those rules was set. I feel that the experience in this country should be considered in comparison with that of other countries. You might, for example. check if it is not normal to aim at 70 or 75 years of age. As a matter of fact, it is quite normal for me to examine the age of 75 when a doctor's license is required to renew. We see that this is in line with the rules we observe in Denmark and Norway, where these dates were very recently increased for 75 years. I have to answer, so there is nothing now to be done in the Ministry that is involved in this. However, I feel that there is ample evidence to be considered. I think we are seeing a very different reality in these areas, like so many others when it comes to those of a certain age, both involved in a career, in society, and just as we are able to make our journey without having to give constant proof of health care because of the renewal of a driver's license. So I think there's good reason to look at this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u44	A respectable president. I welcome the highest. Secretary says here. It says that the rule was given about 65 years in 1997. That was 19 years ago. There's a lot of time. I really feel that the boundaries should be changed. Yes, they were changed last year, and something more practical in 2014, but there may be other factors that might be considered every other year, or I don't know what. I'd especially like to direct this to the Minister. Her party has now spoken a lot about the burden of order, that there are too many rules and too much surveillance in companies. I don't agree completely with that, but I think rules should be simple. I think, especially, that it should make life easier for ordinary people and not allow them to be reinvigorated in unnecessary matters, taking into account that life has changed. I'm glad the minister thinks it's a good idea to look at it. I also wanted to direct her to see if it's not normal to consider when people are 80 years old whether they should remain depending on their health condition and whether they could receive a driver's license or a doctor's certificate for five years or two. It's a natural deal of fuss. It gets on the nerves of an honest person the most.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u45	A respectable president. A report to a certain extent was made in 2015. I think it is very desirable to understand the experience. I believe that she was very good, and then there's evidence to go further on that subject. Of course, it is true. One senator says that it does not care about each individual; people are very different. But the idea is behind this, and the thought is that there is a security policy here. Somehow we need them, but even though the normal citizen is not being prevented from eating his rights and making his journey. It needs to be considered, and I think there may be some evidence that such rules need to be reviewed at regular intervals as we have seen them. To be honest, I was quite surprised that such big changes hadn't occurred since 1997. I reiterate what I said earlier that I feel that this is a point that would be a reason to look over and go over and make changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u46	V.E.G. President. I'm going to have a conversation with the highest. Minister of the state of Congress, which I proposed at the council. She hasn't been on the program, so I made an inquiry from the proposal. The proposal for this inquiry is that the General Assembly concludes to hide the Minister of State to start a conversation with Reykjavík, Mosfellstown, rural areas in Western lands, the Road Building, Transport, and other relevant members of the organisations for needed west-land roads. In discussions with the above parties, a joint effort and strategy will be set up in the coming years on the West Sea Road, on Kjalarnes, the proposed Sunway, and how to deal with increasing traffic in the Havenavroads. Follow-up of interviews will provide a time-to-day strategy for the implementation and funding of these projects. In recent years, improvements have been made in the Sveinjanes Way and Southland Road, making it a significant aid in the safety of road users. Action on the western coast has been limited to the part of the Mosfellsville road. Every day, some 6,000 cars travel through the western road, and the traffic is increasing. Some 2,000 vehicles drive daily to and from the local community of Aranesp and neighboring communities, a car with people who attend jobs and schools outside the countryside to the capital. For a long time, we have been discussing Daffy, but there has been nothing left to do with our transportation. It has been called for road reforms on Kjalarnes, but there have been no significant improvements on the road in recent decades. In view of increased traffic, it has also been pointed out that there is increasing traffic through the Have of the tunnel, and there is a regular debate about the safety of road users. The aim of the proposed proposal is that due to traffic security, there will be a timeliness for needed road construction and funding on the Western road, from the Seaway of the South to the northern coast of Hagfjord. So it is important that the Minister of the Interior take up the talks I discussed. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the state of state to see if there is now a discussion with the relevant party on a joint campaign due to road reform in the Westland and construction on Kjalarnes as a result of linking with the proposed Sunway and how to respond to increased traffic in the Hagfjörður tunnel. If so, when is the date for the discussion to end? If not, is such discussions to begin? And I'd also like to ask the highest. Implementation minister on the implementation and funding of the above projects is being carried out on a timely strategy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u47	V.E.G. President. I'm going to allow myself to answer these questions at the same time, but the inquiry has made it possible to make road repairs for the capital area and the west. As we have discussed here in the Hall of Congress, so this route has been growing, and it is clear to all. Of course, this is a time for improvement and for the future. The current transport programme in 2011◯2022 estimates that the contents of the Þingalva Road will be improved by 2+1 course over the period of 2019◯22022. And that projects on Kjalarnes will begin at the end of that period and finish after the scheduled period. It continues to reduce transport plans to 12 years of age, which are still in preparation. The plan does not lead to Hölfhjörður or Sunway. A transport program to 2018, for the council, is expected to develop on 2+1 roads in Kjalarnesi in 2018, but also a double road block in Mosfellstown's urban area. As we know, there has been a long "Divine Way " in preparation and is in the city's main organization. There are a number of reports on the project and including primary assessment of the Sunway as PPP projects. I've assigned a group of experts to explore possible ways to get a private member to do the job, but that might help to speed it up. However, I make it clear that up to now, the DZI has not been in the process of carrying out a transport plan. But as a result of a common traffic system, it is time for the waterway to be realized. It would be important for those living on the west side, apart from the fact that much favor must come to and from the capital. The plans of the State must, of course, be reflected in local planning programmes, but Reykjavíkurburg, of course, has its organizational authority on the west of the Sunway and on Kjalarnesi and the Hölfjörður gang. During a review of the main structure of Reykjavík, the Convention Convention on the Road of the Future Circles of Kjalarnesi, including about the number and location of the roads. In preparation, road discussions are made with the city's environment and organization of Reykjavíkurburg for the disorganization of circuits and connections to it in Kjalarnesi. In this discussion, the road will be improved, as is expected in a transport program. Then we'll see it revealed in organizational suggestions as well. Walk this along as I believe very urgent. The road has watched Spain's survey of the need for a double Höfjörður. On the average, six thousand cars a day pass through the tunnel, which means that the tunnel needs double when traffic is up to about eight thousand cars a day. Three or four years have to be considered for preparation and implementation if necessary. It's time to start the preparations and possibly come to a group to analyze options and prepare suggestions. However, it is obvious that the roads on either side of the tunnel need to be considered. It is not enough to intend to double a tunnel when the roads on either side cannot be easily accessed. As much as I feel it is necessary to focus on the Western road. But the assignments I have mentioned here are not far off. Of course, the collective and 12-year transport programme, as mentioned earlier, has to be considered now in a trend toward such policies. I hope to introduce it to you as soon as possible at the council, and it will not be impossible to introduce it before the council goes home.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u48	A respectable president. Of course, it is timely to have improvements in Western roads and the situation that is developing as a result of a very growing traffic scale through the Havenautary tunnel. All of us wholeheartedly agree that it is long ago time for us to take some significant and specific steps in setting up the waterway as a means of transportation. The secretary and others have thought about the possibility of such a transport to be taken on their own. On the other hand, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that if it were done, there would be a Norwegian-Courage District of the country, which would have all its transportation due to the currency of the capital. [[Up front.]] A transport program that has not been approved and is being passed on to a transport committee. The questions raised are answered by a minister by referring them to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u49	Twelve-year plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u50	Although much has been called on by a transport committee and repeatedly offered to take her from the Committee, this has not yet happened. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is worth considering why the government groups are afraid to take the steps to the full and show this transport program here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u51	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of the Interior for her answers. Ólína For responding during the discussion, an Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir of the villager I hear it in a case of the highest order. Minister of the state that much work is being done. As noted in her answers, improvements in Western roads and their parts are planned in a transport program and can be started around 2018. I'd like to make a decision that very important is, if there's any basis for it, to speed it up. I drive this course myself every day almost every day and see, for example. when ambulances are in first place, how difficult it is for them to get ahead, where the road is often, and the blind hills often, the narrow road, and the narrow road. That's not acceptable. It is also dangerous to witness this as well as to those who have to face such a situation. It is also important to consider all avenues of recovery. But equal measures must be taken. That's not happy. I wouldn't be telling you the truth if I told you there wasn't a dissatisfaction of a large percentage of people on the north side of the tunnel. They do not feel equal that these rural communities north of the Hagular tunnel are the only rural communities so close to the capital where people have to participate in bankruptcy. It's that question, if only these actions can be taken as private, how could they be counter-volved, as I mentioned in the suggestions above and in the discussions about tax discounts due to costs to and from work. [[The president calls.]] We need to look at the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u52	V.E.G. President. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, it was obvious that there was going to be a lot of transportation to go on in this country. It's been in the past for years, and it shouldn't surprise anyone. Of course, it applies to the roads we're talking about here. We'll just see. There's been an increase in traffic weight. Besides, it's not new, and it's kind of absurd to pretend that it's some new problem we're dealing with here. As for the swimming track, she, as I said in my reply, has been in preparation. It has not yet reached a final agreement with the local community on how to behave within their boundaries. Of course, the government can't continue such a project without complete resolution. It's not so yet, and I think there's a considerable point that it will reach its end. Then it is only wise to consider some of the costs of transportation when we know that there is not an endless amount of money. We would have wanted and would have wanted to put money on certain well - being matters too, and that is very important. So I find it reasonable to look for further ways to build up the transportation system where this is appropriate and where it is convenient. It is not all right, nor has it been determined exactly where it would be suitable, even though I have mentioned it here in judgment. But I believe people must be prepared to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u53	A respectable president. August 16th. published a report on the local Ministry of State on the development of police computer crime. Rather, it is a news report that the Minister of the Interior has been submitted by a group of people who were involved in a network offense. However, there must be no full agreement with the Commission, in order to organize the investigation and the application of such cases, and to promote the establishment of a special police network of violations against the rights of the author's rights of matter. Also, to have the responsibility of a telecommunication company to inform users of the file exchange programs about possible violations with so-called "pop-up" windows and to set a national law. This country's host and management site where the use of Icelandic domains would be established, but there are no rules for this country. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he intends to comply with proposals to promote the Department of Social Crime with the establishment of a special network of delinquency offenses. If so, the research of such fractions will have priority over the investigation of e.g. The distribution of child pornography and scandalism, the threat of terrorism, and organized crime, such as man traders? Second, have we been informed of the effectiveness of the police'due to authoritarian violations? Have other routes been investigated to ensure survival and protect justice interests, e.g. with special fees or a central speculator where all the Icelandic material would be available for a price? Third, I ask: What technical techniques would be used in research? It is true to assume that when authorities take over something in this legal group, i.e. The research on Internet fragments or, in particular, a fragment of the author's type, has been a major tendency over the years for non-rescheduled procedures from a technical point of view. Then, surprisingly, I dare say and certainly hope that the methods have adverse effects on the city's rights, e.g. for privacy, freedom of expression, or anything like that, because control of the Internet is, of course, a control over modern information. It's a very big and serious matter. Hence, it is important to keep in mind when suggestions on how to enforce laws on the Internet, such as authors' law, that people are aware of how to achieve these goals and how these methods will affect the rights of their citizens. There's not everything that seems like that. That's why I want answers from the highest. Minister for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. When this case was presented on the Ministry's Web, I felt that the discussion was only a problem. I take full responsibility for the way it was introduced there. Clearly, this has caused some misunderstandings that I really like to correct. I'd like to start by saying that there is no plans to start a special crime department, and it's much less planned to spy on people. That's not true at all. In my opinion, however, it is important to strengthen the knowledge and resources of the police to work on charges against the Internet's dissociative rights. It's a little different talking about it. Technological changes have increased access to fossil-based material, which is in many ways positive for consumers and manufacturers. The problem, however, follows that large amounts of authorial material are circulating on the Internet without rights and without any payment. As a result, it is difficult to survive the arts produced by music and films and I believe that we all want to remain in Iceland. To me, therefore, it is very important to resist any violations of capitalism in general. In 2014 a committee was formed, such as cognizant. A senator mentioned, who had the job of evaluating the extent of illegal downloads on the Internet and whether the Icelandic law provided sufficient protection. Although the committee has not completed the job, reports have to do with various ideas, including Internet crime departments. I reiterate that I don't feel the need to establish such a department, but I agree with the perspective of improving police equipment to deal with the charges of author rights, as I said earlier. My plan to promote the technical abilities of the police will not only be used in the investigation of authoritarian violations, but will also enhance the ability of the police to react to any type of criminal activity on the Internet, whether it is the distribution of child pornography and smoldering porn, the threat of terrorism, or any organized crime, such as human hall. So I don't think it's right to adjust this way that with this measure of action, an investigation in other areas is being pushed back in priority because it is completely excluded from my mind. We can't have it like that. In this regard it should be noted that recently there was a agreement between the state police officer, the chief of police in the capital area, the director of the Southnes police, and the local district attorney for the cooperation of computer research and Internet crimes. The aim of cooperation is to make good use of the existing human resources and other law enforcement investments and to improve the quality of the research. Furthermore, to shape the future view for the party based on existing experience, the experience of future cooperation, and the development of the seminary in other countries. The question is, Has there been an assessment of the effectiveness of police activities due to the duplications, etc.? The work mentioned above worked and the clear tips made by stakeholders have indicated the need for police reforms. I believe my proposal to further this well in order to strengthen the court's position in connection with their charges to the police. Other ways to strengthen the position of the court are to be considered, such as clarifying the legal application of Icelandic materials. However, they are under the Ministry of Education and Culture. The Parliament recently approved changes in authors' legislation that allow organisations to make agreements on the use of all Icelandic materials, e.g. in the central chemical code for the Icelandic language. Then I know there are other factors to consider in the Ministry of Education and Culture. Changes in the legal environment that make it easier for people to access online material in a legal way may indeed reduce the number of charges. But that does not mean that the police do not need more strength than they do today. In this connection it is worth considering that in general - I stress it - the number of sites on the Internet is increasing. However, we look to these principles not only, but to other offenses. The technical techniques used for testing are asked. It is true to admit that there is no such thing as making personal relations. We are fully aware of the balance there in privacy. However, it is my hope that by promoting technical education and by improving their standards, the police will be better equipped to deal with charges of author rights in sufficient ways and to promote the general ability of the police to study online fractures. The primary objective is to improve the quality of the crime studies carried out by computers and other Internet equipment and to enable police to employ best - approved technical techniques at any given time in the investigation of such criminal cases within existing legal documents.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u55	A respectable president. It is only a matter of getting used to the answers from the highest level. The Minister of the Interior Minister is largely a person's delight, whether in this case or in most others. I welcome the highest answer. Minister of the state, and thank you so much for making this more clear because we have a legitimate concern. The worry is because over the past 20 years or so, there has been a tendency to take action to view a matter lightly. I'm hearing a speech at the highest. Minister of the I.D. doesn't exist at the State Department. It's very important that all of this be cleared up. As for increasing knowledge within the police, I agree with the highest authority. Minister of state. Similarly, it is important to do so, but in line with recent discussions on setting police studies at a university level, it is extremely important that police officers be very aware of the impact of research on the rights of the citizens, whether or not they operate on computer offenses. You can often hear about looking into lawsuits for reasons that you don't consider legitimate. People may go as far as they think they can, not just as far as they need. I believe that when it comes to computer offenses, this trend is inevitable for policemen to be as strong or even stronger. That's why it's important to keep the whole thing under control. I just have to say right now, I trust the highest. Minister of the inside well, but it's important that we think about it for the reasons I have mentioned. But I would like to ask the highest. Minister of the state at the end of the single motion, as shown here, that there will be a national law. Would you like to put in a bill during this term or next to that and then why? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-145.u56	V.E.G. President. We've had no plans to put in a bill about this country's mines. I don't know what happens in the next term, but at least... no particular work has been started in my Ministry of Ministers. I agree with that as a matter of course. A senator said about the education and knowledge of law enforcement, and this may be especially in the light of the fact that only people will need to discuss these things when talking about a break on the Internet. Of course, we need to realize that the physical world and the Internet submit to the same laws. How important it is that the law has adequate knowledge to handle the work! I think the changes in police education now will be very important to the future in order to prepare them for the work they need to do. I think that by opening up this discussion in the way we are here, we are likely to achieve the success we are going to achieve without entering the sacred area of privacy.
