ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u1	The President has received talks from the Council of Pirata on the change of men on the Council Committee, as is Article 16. Parliamentary convention: Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir takes his place, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, vice president of the General and Education Committee. This change will be considered without vote if no protests are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u2	There have been two letters from the State Department asking for every request to give written answers to the application. 650 on Albana's shelters and housing applications, and on the request for cover. 490 on the training and training of police abroad, both from Sigríður Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u3	Mr. President. More than 6,100 children between one and fifteen years of age may be expected to suffer a material shortage in this country. That is why almost 1,600 children suffer a severe shortage. This is made up of a detailed report, the one I believe here, that the UNICEF in Iceland had prepared and introduced this morning and can be found on the Web site as well. In 2009 and 2014, though, child - lacking measurements are available only, but they show an increased lack of concern. It is confirmed that children who have low incomes and job jobs or those who have 50% or less are more likely to suffer in need than other children. While the lack of children and many of the information presented in this report cannot be fully established, the results are still unacceptable. That the percentage of children living in a material deficiency has more than doubled over the period, from 4% to 9%, cannot be overlooked and we as a community must react. Reading this report, we have many questions that need to be answered. Children of parents less than 30 years of age or young parents with one child are more likely to suffer in want, and we need to know why they are more important than others. Why is there more lack in boys than in girls like that? when it comes to socializing? Is it true that boys are more prone to social isolation? It is important to monitor the development of these issues so that both general and specific measures can be taken. That is why it is very important to do these tests regularly. Lack of children of various kinds will affect the future whether it is social deficiency, food, clothing, or food. Today, children's well - being affects their future and later their activities in the workplace and in the community. There is reason to worry about these results, since no children in Iceland should be lacking. All children should have the same opportunity for life and development, as agreed by the Constitution and the United Nations Children's Covenant. The standard that UNICEF provides for the lack of children, using the most reliable statistical information available, enables any member of the community to be concerned with seeking ways and solutions in the struggle for the benefit of a righteous society of all children in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u4	A respectable president. For decades the Russian market has been one of the most important markets for our fish products and food production in Iceland, but now we are automatically throwing them of a valuable market to quietness. From the beginning, I have objected to the government of Iceland to be a member of the European Union and other nations in a series of criminal actions against Russia. The stable nations that we follow as though the shadow have not contributed much in their business efforts to Russia and the overall impact of the operation in their economy hardly become measurable, but we place the nation's valuable market for food production and billions of wages for fish farmers and sailors are lost. That is why one of our most important markets for frozen hairy products is shut up at the beginning of hairy manure. Is it not enough for sailors and fortification and forge to live in unpredictable nature, which, in turn, increases and reduces their potential for earnings after quirks that no one can handle? It comes as a surprise to me that the left block at the council is fully involved in the loss of 2,500 million fish workers and fishermen in lost pay due to the lack of success in the European Union. A respectable president. The discussion is strange at times. Hv. paritaprevir Like before, Birgitta Jónsdóttir has no way of falling into this discussion. Her comments in the evening news of television on January 11, where the ban was discussed more about the senator than does the members of the council with whom she has a hard time and lies, but unfortunately such practices are commonplace. þm. Birgitta Jóndóttir. [[Up front.]] [[The point is, it's too much.]] By permission of the president, I quote the words of the senator: I have to say that it is now that many of the members of the council who have signed by the presentation of the marine export companies have received enormous sums of money from these same companies in their re-tests, so I am just going to have to put a little notice on all of this. I believe that the language and reasoning of those who have been reported by the minister of foreign law are reasonable. Of course, such comments are not worth answering, but they tell us everything about Porta's situation and where it is. þm. Birgitta Jónsdóttir is in this discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u5	A respectable president. By the end of 2014, the Lands Bank sold a share in pay for closed doors and without competition for that property. The price was amazed, and especially when it became evident later that a healthy interest in the company came in 2015. There is now reports that profits will become billions of dollars due to the takeover of Visa International in the European part of Visa. So it has to be said that, as it is that the sale of the stock market, the trade of the century in Icelandic commercial affairs must be considered, and we must ask them, "What is the worth of the Lands Bank now, when this information is on the table, and we must demand for serious research on how this sale was handled? ' The F.O. needs to be taken care of, and if necessary, the Director and Commission of the Generals and Commission will use the resources that the Council has to obtain all the facts on the table in a case like this. This is especially important now that the state needs to sell to state banks, and the groups now serving in the government have terrible history of putting such property into the hands of a market. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] The Council now has a bill to hide the Council's Office's holding organization selling some 60 billion assets, and both society's regime is expected to be irresponsible and that individual employees can make decisions about selling property up to one billion. I must ask, proper president: Is it not a reason for the General now to take this matter into account for the seriousness of this matter and to demand that the Bank of Lands Bank make an account of the absurd decisions taken at the secret pay sale in 2014? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u6	V.E.G. President. Here at the beginning of the council, I come up to discuss the activities of the council. I'd like to say that I believe at the beginning of the council we're the reason why. All members of the congregation do well to examine ourselves and see what we can do more in our work. I say this because during the last few weeks and the days of the fallage, it was difficult to work, and things went very slowly because it can be used as an advising device to try to make their point and to try to protest other factors. I'd like to say that I believe it is very important that the committee involved at the council, a conference, a meeting, try to resolve these issues and present a framework that would increase the respect of the council and of us who are employed here with a better work ethic. It is vital that this committee yield the results as soon as possible. In my speech, I also want to commend others. The Senate welfare committee, which presents pressures these days, with large and large well - being issues being provided for housing activities. There are four areas of housing for discussion. The committee has started with an extra meeting with an extended meeting period, and I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity, for this is a great deal of pressure, to thank you. Councilmen who serve on that committee for that work. I hope we continue our full cooperation with the Committee on the matter and as much as possible try to complete it as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u7	V.E.G. President. Research shows that people in general do not have confidence in the Generals. If it is the will of Congress to increase public trust in the Generals then we must identify the problem and be honest with ourselves in that regard. Call me up, huh? paritaprevir St Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, Brynhildir, has been tireless to come up in this pit and speak for the changed and improved tactics. I often agree with her. V.E.G. The president of Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God has also provided improved tactics and, of course, more members of the council here. I hope that real will is behind our words and that they will have an effect. We were embarrassed by recent years, in part because things came in late from the government, but also because the people who walked into the General Hall were generally taken up by the media. A small number of Parliamentary cases were arranged for a New Year's Eve meeting, where the discussion of them ran aground on one controversial matter, the liquor bill. For example, I don't approve of that bill, but I still won't be able to delay it reaching a vote. The purpose of the discussion in the Hall is to communicate and to reveal different viewpoints. Then there are cases with reviews and details. To improve the appearance of the council, I imagined a small change, e.g. that members of Congress put increased emphasis on reaching their agreements on a number of members of the Parliament who participate in each discussion. In this way, the amount of time needed for the discussion could be determined and the activities of the council could be better organized. There are also some changes to the Council Committee, as we have seen. We cannot continue to behave as we do. Freckle-and-freaking bitch doesn't belong in a Senate hall. Our responsibility is ours.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u8	A respectable president. The decision to support continued economic pressure against Russia is of utmost importance to Iceland. Of course, Iceland will take action with other countries when there are such serious violations of international law and agreements that enter the Crimea and the Ukraine War. Of course, we cannot speak in two tongues in terms of our respect for international law as a small nation, where we build much of our resources in fishing and thus all the things we have to do with international law and covenants being respected. It is clear that the Russians are keeping a close eye on the progress and the national discussion on that subject. Of course, they want much work to accomplish in the cooperation of the Western powers in this matter. This cannot be done in any way. It has been the core of Iceland's foreign policy for decades to cooperate and cooperate with Western democracies, and it has proved to be repeatedly that our best interests are there, and we are in a group of nations that we can compare with when it comes to important democratic values. How can we expect that if we now leave our allies in their actions against some of the most serious developments in European foreign affairs for years that they will come to our aid when we are attacked? What is the right course, and where are our most important interests? The answer is obvious to me. Of course, we need to put national and national interests ahead of business interests, although losing money in the Russian market is a disaster. Finally, I would like to say that Icelandic fishing companies have shown that they have a lot of opportunity and knowledge to find new markets for products previously sold in Russia, and I want to commend them for their hard work, for trying to adapt to changing circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u9	Mr. President. There's been mention of a UNICEF report on ideal children in Iceland and I want to establish an economic shortage of children in this country. In Iceland more than 6,100 children are expected to suffer an economic shortage, which was about 9.1% in 2014 of Icelandic children from 1 year to 15 years of age. This ratio has doubled in the last five years. Of course, this is serious, and we are thinking about things that can affect changes in those subjects. The main causes include lack of housing, parental housing, rent - house status, and parental status are important as well. Parents who are unemployed have much less opportunities to support their children and children under these circumstances are isolated, not having the same access to leisure time, even malnutrition, and lack social support. Child failure can have a great impact on the future for these same children. Therefore, I say, those of you at the General Assembly can make a big difference in how tax policy is used at any time in the equation, what housing policy is like at one time. It has not yet been achieved with such groups, poor parents, since that government came into power. Then there is the payist, the underpayers, and also the way the micropigment has been done with children, the situation of the children is very difficult and could not improve the ideals of the poor and the elderly before Christmas. So it's a job to do, and we can't feel children in Iceland, in this rich society, have an economic shortage. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u10	V.E.G. President. I want to begin my case with wishing us all a happy year and rejoicing that we're convening a council again. Then I'd like to use my time today to draw attention to a meeting that the Director of Employment and Geographic and the Office has offered to the council yesterday. The purpose of the meeting was that the work is now beginning to take place in a new development plan. This work is based on the law on community planning and application programmes from 30 June 2015. As a result of their Law, the first change will be that the time of the basis of a series is now seven years in place of the four years and also that it reaches the capital area. The procedure of these laws was to validate a system of work that has been developing and working for some time. In fact, the historical background of this can be attributed to the 2009 Saturday Valley Palace of Nations and comparable meetings in all parts of the country in 2010. With the development of parish plans, the increase in power and responsibility for the division of capitals in urban and community development has been transferred to those in close range and best acquainted with circumstances. To make a long story short, the situation is that three channels have now been united in one, i.e. contributions to parishes, growth contracts and cultural agreements, and we have total law on strategy and strategy. This currently registered form is aimed at adding policy development and planning in rural areas. In contrast with our neighboring countries, only the government was local, and its capital was out - of - doors. To think of this country as a whole and all settlements as an important link to our great society, I believe that the basis for success. The building program is on the responsibility of all of us, and it is important that as many of us do so. Well, I'm glad we have long-term plans. It gives us greater stability and does not depend on the political rhythms, but gives us the opportunity to shape a future policy so that we can continue to thrive throughout the country based on equality to the habitat. [[The president calls.]] Remember, put on a pair of glasses based on all our work and continue to discuss geographic matters, as this group of languages affects all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u11	V.E.G. President. I'd like to have a word with you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. The trigger is an interview for what? In the autumn issue of September 17, where the headline is, it is not a matter of justice to settle income. That's what it says. A senator that is his private opinion where the Piratars have no direct position on the matter. He himself says that equalizing income is not a fair goal in itself. Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this is something he intends to move into Pirata's policy, e.g. for the next election, that recovery of income is not a fair thing. Then there's another line I stopped at. Now I quote the senator directly, i.e. If the business paper has it right, by permission of the President: ▪ I also feel that it is important that no one be poor, that is not today. A lot of people are poor, especially invalids, pensioners, and so on. And of course, just plain plain losers, I don't want them to be poor, I don't want them to be poor. I suppose his opinion is based on some particular diagnosis, and now I'd like to ask the senator: "How big is this latter group? Is he getting bigger? Is it sexual? Are there more women than men out there? Is he regional? Are there others in this group in the capital area or in the region? Then I'll have to ask you, too. A senator intends to promote himself within the pirate group that something will be done specifically for this group and then what if the Piranians are not on course in this matter either. So I want to do what I want to do. A senator will answer for me and his people the two questions I asked him here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u12	A respectable president. I will not waste my time discussing certain expressions. What we're doing during the interview is that I'm against total poverty, regardless of whether we call people poor or something else. I'm simply against poverty. The business magazine, of course, finds the headline extremely interesting because it is expected that it is but a right-hand magazine, but what I explained during the interview, in my adequate opinion, is that I think that it is primarily a economic matter to settle income, economic issues that are essentially equal, that it is equal in the community. I'm just as an agent. I'm not on the grounds that I feel that it is a righteous question. That's an economic question too. Poor price. It costs a lot, not just the poor people, but the community as a whole with less involvement in the economy. Similarly, regardless of what we call them, regardless of the size or size of the groups, I object that the poor or the elderly or any group are poor. I don't like it. Pirat policy exists. It's interesting. A senator asks if we too do not have a heading for this class. We have a heading. She's with the older one, she's with the first one we agreed to. It can be found on the website x.pritars.is where you can look up social and welfare issues. I've got to go out on a big one because of a lack of time, but amongst what it says, we're trying to validate minimum relocation goals. It's with the older Pirata policies. In a wealthy country, everyone has the right to make a decent living. There is a need for a protection on the job freedom and that all individuals can take advantage of the knowledge that the person has for the job. Care must be taken to ensure that improvement is not limited to the individual's choosing to take advantage of employment opportunities or other opportunities. Simple must be the alimony system. In the final sanctuaries, I'm going to mention that the Piratars work for the basic policy, which is also on the website of piratar.is that Piratars promote the growth and protection of civil rights. Of course, the growth and protection of civil rights in relation to the elderly and desperate means that they have to have good justice protection that they don't do today because the social security system is too complicated, which means that people who are using the wrong system have a very difficult time looking for their rights, both economic and even because the process is all very complex. [[The president calls.]] This is what I hope we can fix as soon as possible. I eagerly await the conclusions of a committee that is now working on that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u13	V.E.G. President. The fishing system today, the present saying - code, was established in 1983, and it took place in 1984, about the time it started to be a gorilla, over 30 years ago. Some ten years later, cod was taken by small boats and later by exaggeration, catfish, and other species. A negative talk in society about the saying of the saying system and the fact that the greeting is moving on a few terms is not easy for small and medium-sized, and most often in debt of expeditation. One of the main reasons for making a quick move to a few hands is my opinion of this negative debate. They sell the big ones and think of getting away from it before the system gets off, but the big ones know they'll still be caught and processed fish. They have the tools, the tools, the knowledge. If warrants are offered by the government, which some have suggested, the largest will be the enterprise. When the resource price was set up in a recent government, it came to the heart of small and medium-sized productions and started many in bankruptcy. Though it certainly was taken in, it had the volume of these operations. It is my opinion that the quota system has proved to be both large and small, and as national preparations as a whole. If people could see the future instead of endless uncertainty over the news committees of negative discussions and make plans for their companies, the management would be much more sound because of the less uncertainty and innovation that would be a good opportunity for young workers, and women, of course, would be considered. [[Up front.]] Our self - esteem fishing industry, where Marro publishes his stock estimate of fish stocks after recent research, then fishing for governments that have been followed for the last few years are health proof of the association with fish that the world accepts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of a report published today and show that the percentage of Icelandic children who live in want has doubled. During this brief period of time, I would like to try to put the information in context. We're talking about twice as much in the percentage of Icelandic children who are missing in 2009-2014. This does not happen isolated, it happens in relation to decisions and the will of the government at any given time, including the time. decisions to reduce child reforms, reduce growth improvements, increase food taxes, and do not increase disability benefits just as much as others in the labour market. All of this has an impact on the lives and ideals of children, and all of this adds to the shortage of children in Iceland. It is totally unacceptable, except that governments are now firing at a special meeting where the product will be no less than that it will provide a real plan for the extinction of poor children in Iceland. We should not feel a lack of children. That's not convincing when the highest. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance is hitting their breasts on annual radio and annual events and talking about the success of everything in Iceland when children who are suffering are growing so much as a child.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u15	A respectable president. As noted, last December 28th and December 30, at the end of that year, there were two executional storms over the East at the end of the last year, huge expansion with great solvents and gale with unusually low pressure and high sea level. Both times, workers suffered severe losses and a major break in land. Waste of property, funds, transport workers, water and shelters were lost by floodwaters and landslides on December 28 of the East, including those of the United States. $10 million damage to roads. On December 30, property damage, cash, e.g. Roads, roads, airports, and marauders, as a result of ocean flood and gurgs, especially in the region of Deepvogur, in the case of Eskimo. In this situation, we witnessed forethought, hard work, and courage of rescue forces, as well as the number of others who avoided more than we could see. Many worked at weather and water to save valuables, and in several places, residents came together to clean up the environment. All these people deserve to be thanked. Then I would also like to call to note that the prime minister immediately called up a group of advisers for the situation in the East, which has been responsible for obtaining information to expose the damage done. Farmers, policy-making, Minja Agency, and others have been working to collect information on damages in the last few weeks and have moved them to the Ministry. Thus, during the following days, the overall information on damage and to the extent that those affected are entitled to do so should be obtained. Then, especially the damage done outside of standard insurance, whether and to what extent it may be possible to improve it, will be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u16	A respectable president. A story, not new to the needle, of the drug use of the Icelanders called my attention; it was discussed in the Spatels, and it's on the Kingdom Radio site. It says that Icelanders should have a high level of oral hypnotics, analgesics, antidepressants and anxiolytics, and world record of the methylphenidate agonist, which includes ADHD. It seems, in view of the discussion, that there's no room for what it's like that we're in this place. What may be positive is that we are providing good health care, all of us have access to it, we are identifying all those who need these medications. That'd be good. However, this may also indicate that there is an excess of problems and in cases where sleeping drugs, antidepressants, anxiolytics that we are creating a society that is beyond human control. I'm concerned about sleeping drugs, and I've also seen articles on the use of sleeping medication in nursing homes. Sedatives are not long-term treatments and cannot be used as such. This is what worries me. They spoke at the highest. The minister of this report, and I like his reaction, it's supposed to be a closer look. I think that's good. I'll call them after they're taken care of. It can't be natural for us to have a Northland meal with this medicine. I also think, when we talk about other medications, blood pressure medications, and so forth, that we are very important to art. [[The president calls.]] I think we need to take a closer look and wonder what we can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u17	Mr. President. Oxfam has for years published a report showing economic differences in the world. On Monday, news was announced from their last report showing that there is still a rise in the world's discrepancies and that the gap between the richest and the poor is increasing rapidly. It seems that the economic regime of the world is about making the richest of the world's wealth richer than it is not supposed to be a public interest. This is very serious news. This occurs at the same time as economists OECD and others, including the Nobel Prize winner of economics, have repeatedly pointed out that increasing eco-efficiency and health for all, that countries with the greatest equations are the best in the world and that it provides tax systems for equalizing. The economists advise world nations to do the same. But what will the government do in this regard? Do they accept this call? On the contrary, the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson, who has rightly received the nickname "The Government of Rich People, " has reduced the equal role of the tax system. This has been done by reducing tax steps, increasing food taxes, and keeping the elderly and micropunchers under the minimum price range. It has reduced housing loans from the richest, deconstructing capitals, and reduced hunting costs at the same time. During this time, child reforms are reduced to 200 fars. K. month. More tax changes are being proclaimed, and they are all for the rich. V.E.G. One prime minister repeatedly speaks of an equalizing this land, stating that it happened in the time of his government. There are no measurements to support that claim, whether Icelandic or foreign. From the top words. The prime minister might suggest that he felt equal to the important task and that his government was working toward an even greater balance in society. Clearly wrong, and the claim is outright deception on the part of the highest. Prime Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u18	President. I want to testify. Whatever it is. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson made it a subject of interview that was taken to me, asking that interest may be the key to speaking in terms of the project. You don't have to look far, no further than 26.1,2013, in your business account about who finances the U.S. Congress of Independence. You don't bite the hand that feeds you. I'm telling people that this can be found with a simple search and that it has the top of the sheet. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson with enormous donations from the export.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u19	A respectable president. I was stabbed like others in the hall earlier to hear the language. paritaprevir Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson when he accused him of what? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter about lying. At the same time that a discussion had taken place from another's mouth. Councilmen to improve the practice here and the conduct of senators in a debate at the Assembly Hall were shocked. A senator up here taking that language to his face. Senator. Like what? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir has come up with information and is not new on the large and large supply of companies to members of the Independence Party. That information is not new. They are available and are facts. The truth is the most intense, perhaps the person may think, and it came to my mind when I heard of it. paritaprevir Ásmundur Frider's Friðriksson. Of course, the minimum is when men come and accuse other members of the council of lies that they reason on such statements and have their own way of speaking. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It did not seem to be in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u20	A respectable president. It is most unusual to think that it would be a way for you to be a handmade person in the country or other people. I've never been. I haven't always spoken the word out of this chair, but I speak for the people when I talk about the interests we have in this regard. It's no secret what support I got for my last re-test. That's what we're looking at at at. This is official review of all the information on it. I think I got 100 of you. K. ... fromonefiction company. I've never spoken about it or anyone else. [[Up front.]] Actually, I don't remember the information because I'm not at all wondering about it, but it's no matter who supported me, nobody's knocked on my back or I'm biting somebody's hand. This is shameful. There is a disgrace to the fact that members of Congress are attacked and spoken in a way that betrays the nation by using their power for some particular party. [[The president calls.]] That's a shameful discussion, embarrassing of you -- ashamed of you. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u21	President. First of all, I didn't name anyone. It's very interesting to me. A senator should take this to heart. I went and looked up and had looked up and looked at what everyone knew, that enormous sums of money have come from the development companies and have advanced toward the Independence Party and its members in re-election. I now have these files from Government Review. It is clear that there are more than one and more than two organizations that have supported the wind. A senator. I was not focusing this criticism on my particular reason. A senator ends his name, I didn't name anybody. Senators may not stand to hear it, but that is clearly so that if you are strengthened by companies, it will always affect your judgment. That is why I have been very opposed by groups and members of Congress to accept financial support from companies. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u22	A respectable president. The good news system and political contributions are something that is not just natural but that we should discuss. That's perfectly normal, especially in view of that - I expect the figures I'm looking at right now are facts, it's money from the fishing road to political parties. This is hardly news, if this scandal is felt by men, it is likely a reason to look at it further. On the other hand, I come here to discuss only the concept of lies. I'm not more subtle myself, but I love the truth more than politeness, and I'm not necessarily attracted to the fact that men use foul words in themselves. On the other hand, when you want someone else to correct something, I don't generally like to assume that the person is deliberately lying or deliberately exposing the point of wrong information. If the evidence is wrong, if something is said that is wrong, which we all do from time to time, it may be to correct it. However, there is no need to call it a lie, simply because it is not a lie, although it may even be wrong that I have no basis for counting. We do not have to talk to one another like that. To say that I'm not sensitive to rudeness in general, as the people of the world may know. I feel that we should give each other a small opportunity to express ourselves without becoming involved in this kind of use of words.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u23	A respectable president. On the other hand, I am very sensitive to being guided by the truth. I'm sensitive to it, and I want what's true. That's how I've always worked. I don't think you can have talked to any other senator than me when you discussed this case because I'm the only member of the Independence Party who's been talking about these matters, about Russian embargos, from this chair as far as I know best. I've done it more than once and more than twice. [[Up front.]] I'm the only senator who's been fighting for us to get off this track with this embargo. It's got nothing to do with the makings. It's just my ideals for the markets of Iceland that had been won in Russia at the time, mainly as I was involved in making a living. I know what was behind it, the great difficulties that had gone through to achieve these markets, and how much won. I'm sorry that we and the government are involved in destroying that big job. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u24	A respectable president. I support, of course, any action against the money load and the funding of terrorism, that will not be a secret. On the other hand, I'm going to arrange for the rash assembly and the committee to change the amount of money from euro to crowns to be returned to the council. I'm gonna keep them on my notice, but I'm gonna vote with the bill in other ways. I want this to be a luxury. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this vote any longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u25	Mr. President. I want to make a subject of the urgent problem facing a nursing home at this time. We have heard that there is a very difficult situation in many lands. We have also received reports from a meeting held by the medical authorities on January 15 that their managers expect it to miss up to 2 billion. as well as the seminary this year. The witness is even to report a 2013 National Review Report showing that there was a billion people lacking in domestic management. Like what? People know that nursing homes are the responsibility of the State, even if they are run by local or private institutions or by other members. It is obvious that people have not met the natural sum of pay for each family member who is able to carry out this vital ministry. News reports that on January 15 a resolution was adopted asking for a meeting with counsellors to plan a targeted plan to solve the nurses'problems. V.E.G. A health minister here to answer has declared himself ready to meet. I feel that it is important that we take this matter for discussion at the council, for it is clear that something has to be done. From the highest point of view, there is a need for clear answers. Minister. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there are any plans for raising the government's annual expenses for each household. Investment to households depends on the day's expenses. Of course, if there are no plans to do so, there is a need to provide very clear direction from the government on which to serve. We know that there is a vast variety of services offered in nursing homes, medical services, nursing, physical therapy, and so forth. Naturally, those who run these homes by government authority ask: What service is to be cut off? Don't you need to talk about it? I also struck on the fact that there was a need for an extra payment on the home. It has been shown here in reply from the highest. Minister, on payment of the inhabitants of the GAW, to request a 144th legislature that it had been established a special working group in connection with the transfer of aging to a rural society to study payment of it. Then there was no conclusion. I realize this isn't all on the top. Health Ministers are more likely to overlap with the highest level of paint. Secretary of society and housing. Still, this is a macropolitic question when we look to the future about how we are going to raise sheep to nursing homes. So I'd like to ask the highest question too. Minister if there's anything he can tell us about whether there are any ideas on the board to raise the payment of patients on this operation. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister on the matter of nursing pension commitments. There was a agreement at the time that the state would take over the pension debt of 11 nurses. It's been shown, including. in a declaration from a social meeting of enterprises in welfare services, that this enterprise is not finished. I also realize that there's a major challenge. Healthcare Ministers are on assignment to the highest level. Secretary of finance, however, asked the minister to inform us if this agreement will continue to exist. It is also important to realize whether it is to remove pension bonds from other nursing homes. We have quite a few more nursing homes than the 11 I mentioned. The nurses are about 45, depending on what I understand. My time here today is short to review this situation. I realize that there are many other important issues in the field of health care. We've been talking about Land Hospital and Health. Of course, nursing homes play a vital role, especially when I look back at the capital area, we see the trend where nursing homes are often very ill when they finally have a place in a nursing home. They need much service. I'm sure it means more than that in many parts of the country. Clearly, this service is costly. I think we need a very clear picture of whether the highest. A minister believes that it lacks 2 billion dollars. into the business of this year, whether we have any plans to raise the government's daily expenses and how matters actually take place during a conversation with those who have taken part in the operation of this important legal home for the welfare of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of this discussion, which is very important. I'm going to try to answer the questions she raised to me in preparation for this discussion. First, I want to say that in 2014, in my year, the state, the Ministry of Economics, and 11 nursing homes, as presented here, made a agreement for the surrender of pension bonds. It was to meet the difficult situation of a nursing home. This was the removal of the pension bond at the value of 6 billion dollars. In addition, in 2014 a donation was made up of 7,700,800 million, if I recall correctly, to as well as as as as salaries, as it was then called, so a significant improvement came in part. On the other hand, pension debt is binding to rural society, because of nursing homes management, non-fiction. I took up the financial and economic office after the last day, and I got the answers that had not won the time to evaluate the status of the pension bonds that go down there. With regard to the second question, the Minister's plans, and the way you can respond to the more recent statements made by a company of welfare services, I want to emphasize that private interest agencies are part of the enterprise's organisations in welfare services and that their composition and community are part of these great organisations. Health and health systems are the largest and most visible projects in the Western world, and various factors are causing constant pressure on costs, and this, of course, leads to constant financial wrestling. I'd like to allow myself to state that in recent years governments have been working to strengthen a controversial party. During the last term, there was work on a so - called rented route, rebuilding 11 nursing homes. This year I was reporting a three - nursing facility plan. The annual work base has been reinforced. The increased funds have been donated to smaller nursing homes, etc. In addition to this, I would like to stress that there are some additional medical resources, home care facilities, increased medical facilities, the increase in mental - health professionals, etc. But of course, and I shall be the first to admit it, some of the nurses are in trouble, and there is a full reason, as I have declared publicly following this proclamation, to go over that position with the officers of these homes. However, I would like to emphasize that the circumstances of these households differ greatly, as do the State, in order to meet this challenge. Understandably, there are differing opinions on which ways to go, but they are all considered. In particular, I would like to mention that what covers us in negotiations with homes is financial provisions set by the General Assembly. I requested that the Agency make a special assessment of the survival of the households and further request suggestions from the Agency on how we can improve this communication. I got that report. In part, we have responded by means of financial action. Second, I'd like to mention that I received four suggestions from a National Reunion on what she thought was needed to improve; to negotiate service agreements with all nurses, improve information and access, ensure that performance, performance and health assessment are consistent, and fourth, that the responsibility for nursing care is being transferred to rural society. Service contracts are in progress. So from 2009 onward, the provisional law was postponed to sign a contract with the nurses' manager. We'll take it off temporary regulations and from 2015 onward, it's an obligation to work on contracts. The work is done. They haven't succeeded. We're working on improving the information supply, as well as starting to reevaluate the performance and health assessment. I want everything to happen, because time will fly from a man in such short discussions, mention that I expect and I hope that the discussion will begin with what we have ahead of us in a discussion with the nurses. There are many things to think about. But I'd like to underscore again and again that we need to negotiate with the operators the content of the service they're supposed to provide on the basis of their daily expenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u27	V.E.G. President. I'm surprised we haven't received any clearer answers from the highest level. Secretary of health. I'm surprised when he tries to give up his responsibility for the medical condition of a nursing home by referring to the Allied Fundament Authority. It is to him that the minister of the jury is to offer proposals for financial management in accordance with need. He is responsible for this category and is to offer suggestions on the need. They didn't come. But what came into the council? In all of the last records, there was a bill about changing the health insurance law so that the nursing homes could be negotiated for the so-called living space as well. The speed on the case was so great that neither the company's members on welfare services nor the National Association gave room to post reviews on the subject. They could hardly have had time to read the bill before they had to attend a social committee meeting. It revealed, in the small things they could express themselves, their concern for financial situation. The budget was well gone, and much of it did not take over in any way. VG voted for this bill, and we in the United States were sitting by because we didn't have time to find out about it, since the reporters showed up running with the bill half-reading in our hands. It is the Minister to ensure the information flow of budgetary funds into the jury. The circumstances in nursing homes today cannot be written solely on the pension debt. This is a far - reaching problem that needs to be handled with increased financial resources right this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u28	A respectable president. As we look at a community, we look at not only its strengths but also its ways in which society treats those who are weaker. We are often thinking about children, those with disability, disability, and the elderly. There is no question that it is the responsibility of public members and, in this case, the government of the government to care for the service given in nursing homes. In recent years, a reexamination has been repeated and followed by a service contract made with the nurses' director. Although the State is responsible for this category, it is largely in the hands of private and rural communities. As an advisor noted, today these institutions of self - interest, and communities for years, have spoken for rather faint ears that the State does not depend on the cost of this nursing home. It's natural to be responsible for the State. I'm glad to hear the highest. Ministers speak of efforts to negotiate service agreements, but they have not been reached. I know this myself from a few years ago when I worked at the local government level in the capital, that it was extremely difficult to reach financial agreements for this operation. In the capital city, millions of people - a total of them over a period of several years - were well treated over a hundred million, which the city had actually paid with the ministry because the State could not handle agreements or would not want to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u29	V.E.G. President. With the permission of the president, I will begin by reading the diary suggested by the local government and the representatives of the Administrative Fund before 2016, which says: ▪ The Directorates of Avlinoi stress that head, nursing and nursing homes of Acdéri sit at the same table as any nursing home that's run as an automation agency for pensional commitments. The head's Penitentiary is extremely high and heavy for the Agency's business as well as for the retail point. However, this is not the only agency involved in this problem, but this is generally true of the institutions that share an enterprise in welfare services based on the information I have on it. A conclusion issued by the aforementioned organization following an emergency meeting held last Friday says that negotiations due to these Penitentiary bonds have been established. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he knows when this discussion will be planned. It is very important that the discussion becomes as soon as possible and a mutual solution to this immensely important and important matter. In a resolution issued by the organization, the government also denied the last few years - not just a few years back in time but further back, according to the information I have - to pay rent rent care and aging agencies and to reduce their financial resources. In addition, it has been stated that the balance of prices and remunerations for the number of years did not result in an incorrect increase in the proportion of days between years. This has added to the problem of business. According to the information I have established, certain institutions are not at the same level as self-employment institutions. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if that's the case. If so, why? It is important to get to the highest level. Minister of health with the highest degree. Presidency and financial secretary meetings as soon as possible through the Management Board of Enterprises in welfare services to review their status, develop a targeted programme and solve nursing problems for the future. [[The president calls.]] I trust the highest. Advertising Expansion and Independence Groups perfectly to resolve the matter so that successful solutions can be achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u30	President. Thank you for your discussion. Now this is the way it is in the older ones'right to live in such a way that they will receive food, care, and so forth. not being able to threaten much to get their own benefits corrected. The only thing they may be able to threaten is to grow old. I just hate to see daily news that people don't get food, that they don't get proper care, and that they don't get in nursing homes. This is no new problem, but it always seems to be more extensive and more extensive. It's simply because we have a systematic problem. I experienced that my grandfather was waiting a long time to get into a nursing home where he never got in. It's been a while. He lived in a tiny room with the Salvation Army. He died in a mental institution because there was so much hopelessness. I also had a grandmother who was on suspicion and equipment, and circumstances for old people are pretty lame. I wondered if it's true that the system that's holding those who laid the foundation for our community is a private thing. It seems to me, if I look at the communities around us, that arrangement has caused so many people to fall among us, all too many wait and live in terrible want, whether social or social, linked to care or other. I find it unbecoming to this nation to treat the people who laid the foundation of society and went so far as to build on what we live in today's world. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We overlook it. It's time to do something right away, Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u31	Madam President. The current problem of nursing homes or day - to - day stores that care for the elderly is certainly not new, but I think we are now facing a widespread emergency, so it is no longer over. That's the burden you feel in discussions about these matters. Of course, it attracts attention and draws attention to the misdeeds of state and community that the rural communities are sitting on the ground. The state boasts of being rebuilt now and reduces its income left, but the rural communities are experiencing great hardships and sit at the same time in large numbers by paying off the compromise of the government's business. It is only a matter of hope that this year's local government is heavy, so you don't talk about the self-employment institutions that are even worse in that they have no other income companies to cover the gap. Of course, they also need to keep in mind our future need and how we meet them. It's a huge group of paintings, all right. Clearly, in the years to come, we also need to build a nursing home. The unnamed age I met in the street informed me that we were the largest year in the history of Iceland. I hadn't figured that out. I know that the 55-model is a very good model, but that we were the biggest success in Iceland, I didn't know and I have this man to. It is true that very large rivers are now getting closer to the age of need in this type of service. There's no way we're going to fail to meet that. On the basis of the course now being solved, we will be able to get as much help as possible. Hopefully, in the coming years and decades in Iceland there will be housing, so there will be no over-registered off construction regulations in this regard. We solve some of the problems by resting - place and day care, but then we need a nursing home. The only show that may be on the way out is a home in the old style. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] All right, but the rest we have to go. I think there's a lot of uncertainty in this category during the months we're talking, as per the welfare committee's information on how to monitor the contracts of a health insurance agency with the operators. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u32	V.E.G. President. Health issues are one of the biggest cases we'll be discussing at the council, and one of the biggest questions in the last election was on the affairs of nursing homes, at least our main subject in the Southern District. This is because we all have someone who is either waiting to get into a nursing home or who needs the ministry. It was quite clear when I attended the council during the last term that there was not a whole plan on where to go. It was clear that there was a need for more space, but there was no plan on what to do where and what the need was and what the ministry should be done. None of the members of a last government or current government should be surprised by the current task being faced. We know this. It is good that this discussion is conducted here today in an effort to find out how we will handle the situation. What we must do is a plan to build up this ministry. V.E.G. Kristján Þór Júlíusson's health minister is working on such a strategy. That's good. It was called for during the last term to be done, but it was not. I'm glad you've started that job. I hope that we can all stand together to carry out such a plan when it is established. With regard to the day line that has been presented in the discussion, it is clear that it is also not new. I was a platoon manager at the Cradle Hall of the East before my arrival here at the council, and we always paid for the government's leanings. So it's not a new project, but it's a big one. I hope that the talks as Ministers and others today are effective. But because of what was presented here in the speech of the last speaker regarding a place of residence - a home such as this may be on the way out, I think such clean housing is on the way, but we cannot leave all the space because it is our experience with the Rangers, e.g. In volcanic eruptions, it is extremely important to have such space for adults who actually have to move away from home in such a condition and have no confidence to stay at home but who have to be served. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u33	Madam President. The Kingdom is by no means performing in nursing homes and is not even fulfilling its legal duties. This situation, the financial demand for this sector, has gone on increasing in recent years. This is not acceptable, especially when there is money, since the good is back. Despite its legal obligation and the financial status of nursing homes, the state has not yet made a service agreement with nursing homes, so bad that it has now been described as a medical emergency. It hasn't happened before. It is now estimated that the budget is up to 2 billion each year, which is sorely lacking in the seminary. This is unacceptable. America's profits are improving. It is the rest of the billions of federal laws. Under these circumstances, of course, a moral requirement is that money be used to provide for the sake of basic services in the welfare system, such as the care of the oldest citizens of the country during their lifetime. There's no question about that. They're answering to the highest level. Ministers in the past, that the matter will be resolved in time or after practicality, are simply unacceptable and not a good entry into this discussion, let alone trying to throw the responsibility of the government or the government over the General Assembly, for all of us know how there are limits of authority between the council and the government. Today, old people wait for hundreds and years for nurses all over the country, especially in the capital area where hospitals are struggling to graduate people who have no other house to go to. This is an enormous problem that is also urgent and must be solved. [[The president calls.]] It is not enough to solve him in the capital area, of course, a nursing home needs to be built all over the country. [[The president calls.]] It is human right to be able to age in a local home and enjoy association with loved ones and families. It's possible, Mr. Honorable President. It is a good thing now, and in good times, it is unacceptable for the people of the land to have an emergency in this series of languages. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u34	Hear, hear!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u35	A respectable president. This is an enormously important group of subjects, and it gets more important. Today, the percentage of elderly people is about 11%, according to Haguen predictions, reaching the year 260. The percentage of the elderly is predicted to be about 23%. That means if I reach my 80s, if God and luck promise, I'll be among the 100st of you. Old people living in Iceland. That tells a hell of a story. That will be just over 40 years from now. How urgent it is to think about how we will respond! There will be 100 of you. Someone who needs a service. I expect and I know it's the highest. A minister realizes that the way we stand for this service is one of the most urgent plans of our day. Not working well in nursing care - I'd also like to put home nurse care under this too, because I think it is now a very sensible and best way to work domestic nursing together and not work as powerfully as building it--if we don't, if we don't work and don't do well nursing and home nursing, then the cost of serving this large group will be huge. V.E.G. Of course, a minister knows that it is very expensive for this group to stay in the hospital, and that is what he is now doing. So saving too much on nursing and home nursing means saving the money and throwing the crown. I also feel as if in this discussion, it has become an urgent problem between state and rural society, which is mainly due to the government's regard of the cost of necessary service to the local community. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, it is too tempting for the State to do so. [[The president calls.]] I think the solution to that must be to secure the income ground of the rural society and give them more work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u36	V.E.G. President. What a concern it is to see how poor nursing facilities are in many lands! Many rural societies, with considerable sums of money each year to ensure services on the population, have, in the long run, been utterly unacceptable to rural society, many of which are not able to handle expenses beyond legal projects. We must identify the problem, seek solutions, and implement them first, since time is by no means working with us in this matter. This discussion shows that we share these concerns, for this issue is not political; it is a matter of fairness, fairness to the people of nursing homes, and fairness to the communities. At the highest level, interviews have been observed. Kristján Þór Júlíusson's health minister is very serious about the business of nursing homes and is all willing to find suitable solutions for long term. He also points out that the priorities of the government are advancing home service, and that is the best thing to do. In conclusion, the company's social meetings in welfare services from January 15th are presented, by permission of the president: ▪ In addition to the problems that result from a lack of money for a regular management, there are other problems that need to be handled specifically. The state has so far refused to pay rent to nursing homes and nursing institutions. This has caused either a home to be damaged and out - of - date, or home itself has been financed, but there is no payment to pay for it. This situation is unacceptable and will only result in bad housing and/or subsidies. Finally, I would like to emphasize the very essence of my brief discourse, which is that we directors have a responsibility to solve the problems of nursing homes and to ensure their future location.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u37	A respectable president. I had a strong suspicion that I'd always wondered about. 4th, including Sak., Dr. Konráðsdóttir Konásdotsdótttir, has confirmed in an excellent and informative discourse on this matter. The feeling and the suspect is that there is simply no long - term plan, that there is no long - term plan in which we imagine how we're going to act in the future. At first glance, if you look at the subject and you don't know it and you haven't followed it, it looks like something that should have been cleared up in Iceland a long time ago and fixed, that there was a permanent solution to this. Of course, they do not surprise people who have heard of this problem over and over again. But I think it's a lot from the way we live in 2016. According to this, it is clear that over time the elderly will grow greatly, and a long - term schedule will have to be established. There are more nations than we have to wonder about that problem, so I suggest that we try to think a little bit over the box and examine other primitive ideas that other nations are considering because of the same problem, because it is not confined to Iceland. It has to be said at the moment that it has become rather tired to hear of one problem, which is not limited to this sect, and that the government does not finance what it expects to be done by rural society and organizations. I think there's another problem you'd have thought was cleared up, that you'd have to figure out how to handle such a situation. It is also important that, for decades at least because of the nature of the seminary and particularly the problem anticipated over the years and decades, over the years and decades, this party should be adjusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u38	Madam President. Thank you. Parliamentaries of this discussion and of the highest degree. Minister of staff answers. I think I can tell from the discussion that there is a rich political will against all categories to correct the position that has come up. However, we must not confuse long-term policy - which is certainly important and must be based on different aspects of home nursing, resting - roomisation, and then the management of a traditional nursing home, and I'm sure that it requires reasonable policies on how we see the importance of these factors in the future - and then on the projects that are urgent. That's where I quote the pension bonds. This was shown in the case of the highest. Ministers in regard to the pension debt of local nursing staff that this project has not been undertaken. That's where I prosecuting the government and the Supreme Court. Secretary of the budget, officer of the highest. Healthcare Minister, to engage in this procedure. It is also important that a nursing home sit at the same table regardless of who the operator is when we watch this feature, which, of course, affects the management of these households. The emergency task is to resolve the budget for households, the day-to-day expenses for each family member who has to make an agreement. V.E.G. A minister earlier said that he needed to discuss the theme of our ministry. I am impressed that at least I do not want to see that service impaired. But there is a need if the ministry is to be impaired, I understand those who run these homes, and I want clear answers, which service should then be cut off. I realize that the project is extensive. That's expensive. I think one of the things that Iceland and I need to face like other nations, in view of demographic development, is that this point will cost us more in the future. I'm putting it on the line and I'm asking the top. Finally, a minister when we can expect to see something on board when an agreement can be obtained on these matters, so that nursing homes and especially their household do not have to live with this uncertainty. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the discussion that has taken place. True, it differs in quality. Some come up with scaffolding laws and declarations that actually do not work out the situation and try to put out something that may not be supported. That doesn't give us anything. I'm happy for what's going on. The speechr approaches the discussion. However, there is a solution. There's nothing in this position that will clear it up like that, and right now. I'm going to remind you that there are just over 30 days since the Allied Congress of Iceland gave up the budget of the year at 3rd. There was no suggestion, inside the final payment of the budget for the increase of money to this group of paintings. Then it comes up. The problem with this is that long-term policy needs to be lost. That's exactly what happened. paritaprevir The Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson before, we lack long-term vision. She's been won. Congress groups will soon be invited, if not already received, to arrive at the current Ministry's work in the long-term policy market. I would like members of Congress to have a full share in that work. In terms of the emergency problem and the fact that operators sit at the same level, the problem, the subject, is as varied as the operators are many. Nurse's assistants are 43/444. According to a report published by the State's Accounting, 13 nursing homes were fired with rest in 2014. I know some operators have a good position, i.e. while others are in a lot of trouble, those who are in trouble are even overpaying employees from house to house. It's not easy to deal with. We need a better model, which we get nothing different than a clear service contract with the operator. They're being worked and until we see some results on them, I don't think we're going to be getting close to any surface. [[The president calls.]] You know, about the big case. A senator mentioned, the pension debt to the operators involved in the rural community, probably it's time to continue pushing the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs to finish work on the agreement made with the rural communities there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u40	Madam President. This matter is still under way, which is normally corrosive to the concentration camps. This high priority, especially for members of the Independence Party, is so high that it is nearly cleared away from the rest of the country and other members of Congress days, weeks, and months without intervention. I've wondered what the situation in this area has become in the Independence Party. I draw the conclusion from my political aetistic talent that, in effect, the short - pants section or the short - tailed generation of the Independence Party has ultimately taken over the group. I sometimes wondered: " Is there no independents who sometimes indulge in seeing things differently than just this narrow, blind, new - free market view? Where is the Hémanian arm of the Independence Party, which in the past gave them a wide range? Then there were strong advocates of independence that protected the welfare community, even though they were civilised. Now let no man say, Where is Árni Helgason blessed be his memory, the Independence Party this day? Is there no longer a member of the Independence Party who sometimes push down the dogmas and take a realistic stand where the Hémanian attitude, social, social attitudes, and market conditions are relevant? In view of the overwhelming priorities of many members of the Independence Party, it is clear that there are no voices coming out of them. Of course I know better. I know that these attitudes are not universal in the Independence Party that this is an intelligent expedition. I meet people of independence on the street who encourage me and others in trying to stop this matter from becoming a law. Fight it. They still take their hhuman view of things and want it to be kept in the wind instead of the restrictions. In one respect, I want to praise this bill. Its authors, in effect, agree that the consequences of its legal fixation will be an increase in alcohol consumption and alcohol abuse. They do so, among other things, by offering to share a public health fund in alcohol charge, from 1% to 5%, and now less. Bonelin so that gross public health measures can be used to prevent the full success of the bill. It is respectable as far as it goes. Of course, it does not have to change the alcohol subsidiary system to raise contributions to public health. I would've liked, a respectable president, to have my own private bill on just doing so, to be on the program with this matter, even though it has some lower Senate code and it's not because it's on Council Report 62. If it is political to promote public health in the country with increasing financial resources, let us do so and not be mixing this extremely controversial issue with the alcohol - dealing arrangement. It is often said that experience is the most fertile judge. I think it applies here. The fact is, in many cases, all four North countries that have built on a comparable system, and Iceland has protected this system across subsidiary and protected it in treaties with international institutions and organizations, and have even committed lawsuits in the European Court to protect the alcoholic government. For example, Swía struggled to protect her arrangement. When the four northern countries that weren't involved in the European Union or the EEA took care of that, and then two of them went all the way and agreed to become part of the European Union, they made sure that they were not to interfere with their arrangements for the drinking monopolysthesis of the state. The lead is in the contracts. He is exported there and was accepted because this was part of health policy and public health policies in these northern countries. That's the way it's taken care of. Of course, here it is trying to put it in a suit that it's just a simple business, it's like any other product. But this has never been the case in those countries and countries, for example, since it is part of the health and public health policies in these countries or regions. It has been observed that these problems have been mentioned in the North and other areas in which this arrangement is used. The facts show the details. Or do people think that international investigators, the World Health Organization, and others like them, who encourage other countries to follow the example of the North countries, use empty surfaces? No, it is based on facts, measurements, and studies that show that this kind of conservative policy is being held by the government over the sale of this sensitive product and that it will achieve its effectiveness, best results. It's well known. Could it not be that we wouldn't need anything beyond the northern countries to see this comparison? What North countries, independent countries, and self - control areas have the greatest problems in these areas? There are Denmark and Greenland, who have the arrangement at hand. The operators want to go on. But in other parts of the North countries, things are better. The consumption is smaller and better outlets, such as when under age people fail to buy alcoholic beverages, etc. Experience, if handled, should be enough on its own to abandon support for the bill. If they reflect on the priorities they want to put things down when they take a stand on matters, wondering about the community, the well - being of children and teenagers, the thousands of families hurt by alcohol abuse, it should also be enough to prevent them from accepting this matter. Of course, if a blind ideologies or serving other interests are beyond the reach of such a conclusion. However, transporters should at least know that this is a very controversial situation. This would be approved, if ever it were, against the advice and position of all professional sources. Or is it any misunderstanding that the governor's office and the National Institutes of Health, the health professions as they do, all the organizations involved in youth and socializing in the country, encourage the General Assembly not to do this? I don't know any better than it's over the line, so professional health analysts, social and community scores at the World Council don't do this. You can be quite self - confident if you push that completely aside and give it no meaning. In general, it is not considered that having all professional reporters in the way they oppose them for such a change would be a factor. The evidence is, however, very strong, whether they are at the well of experience or simply in the material evidences that have been proposed to this arrangement, that it is part of the conservative policy in this field, linked to public health and health goals of the individual countries, including the official direction of Iceland to the extent that this is not advisable. In fact, the health and public health policies that even the current government has established contrary to this, encourage this not to be done. Then there are other secondary arguments that, of course, are needed to consider what time allows. You might ask: Is this an improvement in the trade in the country? Various amazing statements are in the bill's report, unconvinced, such as that this will be a trade in the country and the country's general blessing. I'm not gonna be told the ghost stories in the light. This would be a major blow in many ways to the region, which would replace all the transport costs of the product with its recovery within the current system and no one would be around the country. Who would pay it to others besides those who eventually bought it in the scattered areas of the land? If this is done, what is likely to develop? It's because the big shopping chains will take over this market. It is clear that they, of course, intend to take this sale to their rooms. They're not only trying to sell the small sale but they're also going to sell the whole goods. They will break down the entire racers, buy them out, or take care of them until they surrender, reach the posts for the best species, and take over this market. Then let it not be forgotten that the big difference between the state's possession of this business and that it will be in the hands of a private citizen, that the profit factor will then come, the profit of selling this product, and most selling it. He is deactivated by the arrangement we have today. It is not just an biofuel, public health and health theory, and the view that this makes it possible to keep a better understanding of the age being respected. Of course, this too is part of the business that does not have the goal of making money out of selling as much as possible, getting the most pressure out of the equation. It all comes true when it comes to a private person who runs his business for profit. It is naive to overlook that aspect of the matter. I've asked a lot of people who are well versed in this business, those who've taken care of the ATVR market, I've talked to holsters and agents, the Contestant Board and other parties, they don't object that this would be the most likely development. On the contrary, the smaller businesskeepers, many of whom are opposed to the claims of the whole business, point to this aspect: It will not strengthen us in competition with the big giants if they are basically prepared to take over this market. We will not have the volume to import this product ourselves, to gain good authority, and to finance the songers. So, what are we gonna do? We will be forced to offer this service to our clients in order to be competitive. Well, we have to buy it from the big chains. That's how they'll figure it out. We, on the Economic and Business Committee, received many of these into our meeting because we were able to investigate a little of this aspect of the matter, the business competitive, and I refer to it as no more than the largest part of the economy and business committee that followed from us, since a financial and business committee had the best way of expressing its opinion on the matter of work and within the board's law to receive it, but for some reason the case was referred to to a global committee, not to a financial and business committee that has previously discussed changes in the TVR law, and not in the welfare committee that could take the matter on the basis of this being health and human health issues. No, it should be for reasons we all know in this room. It was perhaps most likely because of the people involved that they would get the best walk there. From malls of trade and competitive ideals, we can question and protest a great deal of the reasoning presented here in a paper with the bill. For example, it is interesting to read on page 18. 9 of the report quoted in the McKinsey report that Iceland's store is so unstable and that it is such a big house, including the idea of throwing aside public health and health grounds to only increase the cost of living and improving housing. Would it not be easier to try to do this in ways that would differ from theirs? Should they be willing to offer up views on that altar that could make the store more useful to a square foot [3 m]? What about the opening time? What about the whole pile of supermarkets that's open 24 hours a day? Doesn't it cost anything? I guess there are other factors that have largely contributed to the failure of a store in Iceland. It doesn't matter where we've been brought down in my opinion, a respectable president, I just don't find any material reason to disappear from the arrangement we've had, and there's no particular dissatisfaction about it. When measured in the public, the ATSVR is one of the most popular companies in the country and will score at the highest level of satisfaction. Because it provides a good service, a responsible enterprise, is engaged in its challenging roles with great responsibility, and encourages responsibility in all its activities, does not engage in advertising, which is one more matter that we should discuss. If this becomes a reality, how will it be successful to observe the limited and evil prohibition against alcohol advertising? It will not get better, so much is certain, because MTVR represents a completely contrary view, and encourages in its presentation and work all to be responsible for these activities, which is what that company should do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It is a pleasure for me to go back to the same talk he did when I was four years old, or 1987, and the beer house was here for discussion. It's good for us to be able to hear that. I'd like to start by showing him where I am in this matter of well - being, which I feel is completely obvious. When we're talking about the priorities in government, both time and energy, where they're going to concentrate on doing well, I think it's better to run a welfare system than a retail. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: What has been true of his prophecies of doom since his time of ban? What is the status of alcohol culture today? What has come true in those numbers? And is it, in turn, an increase in bioavailability or increased bioavailability in the region? I can't figure it out, either.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u42	Mr. President. That was the first official of the case. His important reasons here for his case were what? Yes, it would be nice to listen to me giving the same speech I would have given when he was four years old when I voted against allowing alcoholic beer. And then he just wanted to get back on that one. Was that the first official of the case? Was he offering powerful, convincing material and material reasons that he was right? No, he was trying to transfer the discussion to the fact that there was a hind-student who would have paid a vote against the beer. Yes, I did. True, I never argued that it would all go upside down, that everyone would roll all over the place, as the present secretary of the Independence Party puts it in my mouth for an interview. A senator did some of the same. I reasoned on why I came to the conclusion that I was not very focused on. For one thing, I did so because men were completely incorporated in the beer when it came to the effect. I fought to see that at least a privilege of preemptive work would be major. It wasn't approved. The result? As a result, alcohol consumption increased. [[The president calls.]] She did. And the age of the initial drinking went down. He did. And there was no particularly good year. It certainly looked for balance. But in the end, alcohol consumption today is much greater than was recommended in alcohol consumption per person each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u43	A respectable president. I came up here to give an answer but not to argue on this matter. I have given the story, and I may have given a second talk in this discussion, as I offer my reasons for the matter. I would like to reiterate my second question, whether the senator is more concerned that the bioavailability is impaired or increased by the fact that the bill is being fulfilled and what the negative consequences of alcohol consumption have been made since the moment the beer was allowed. True, I would like to add that most of the fluctuations in terms of growth seem to follow the economic rhythms of society. What, though, are the greatest negative effects of alcohol abuse? Is it bad if someone who drinks one bottle a month suddenly started drinking two? Is it starting to turn society upside down?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u44	Mr. President. Is this really being discussed with you that it's about drinking one bottle of wine a month and that it doesn't create a big problem if you go to two? We're not discussing it. We're here talking about the big picture, and we're talking about people who can't handle it easily when they're around these products. It is their best interests, their families, and their children, who should be at the wind when we make a decision. Yes, proselytists, youths, try to use it as a argument how lame it has been that some have not supported alcoholic beer. But what is reality? Since its release in 1989, alcohol consumption has increased from 4.3 liters to 7.5 liters. Research shows that privatization increases the sales rate even more. What may result? For example, there is a large increase in the incidence of cirrhosis, such as increased suicides, such as road accidents, permanent disability, such as human disasters, thousands of divided families, because of the problems associated with alcohol abuse. That's what we're gonna talk about, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The surgeon's Web has taken together a number of studies on this very matter that we discuss here. All show the same item; if alcohol consumption is reduced, the bioavailability is important as well as the price of alcohol. Of course, there are health problems and social problems with increased consumption. Those who write this bill and bear it talk about both access and price and believe that there is no permanent link between increased bioavailability and increased consumption and that because the laws of the government are so great they push people into making or buying countries or such. I want to ask you why. A senator is not concerned with me that those who carry this bill have not studied these studies of the governor, who are at least 40 percent. Thirty-year-old summer who? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u46	Mr. President. Yeah, don't you just want to believe that the reason is, when people don't even cover this show, just push it aside, that they just haven't studied it? I find it so difficult to see how men might be so ambiguous in their support of the matter if they had simply studied it. It only takes a surgeon and his data. We can do Norwegian research and Norwegian policy in this area. We can take the World Health Organization, e.g. The area office in Copenhagen, which has a wide range of information on these materials, etc. It's a long list, and it's pretty sad if we read through it about all the consequences of overdrinking and e.g. a drink, if it grows in a situation like this. It simply increases the number of people with alcoholism, long-term health problems, cirrhosis, brain atrophy, neuromuscular damage, long-term mental illness, alcohol-related cancers, days of illness from work, numbers of broken families and neglected children grow, violence increases and drinking while driving. All of it's over there. These are huge sad facts that research shows very much that we would have to prepare to grow in an approximately proportion to an increase in alcohol consumption. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is the reality we face.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u47	Mr. President. Hv. At the beginning of his talk, a senator pointed out that the bill appears to be a special priority for the Independence Party and when the council was given in September and then the debate was then named both members of the Independence Party, president of the Independence Party, and also fierce. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen, this case in particular is a matter of priorities and freedom. However, it is clear that if alcohol consumption increases as will happen if the bill is legalized, the cost of the State will be increased and research has shown that increased alcohol consumption decreases interest. I think it's so fucked up, this high priority for independents on the bill, and when you see the consequences on the government. The head of the Independence Party is the highest. Financial and economic ministers. What does it want? A senator say about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u48	Mr. President. Of course, the responsibility of a minister of finance, not only for some ideal reason, would not be so happy that alcohol and alcohol abuse would bring the terrible expenses and social waste that it brings; it is natural to see. There is nothing more than to conclude that this is all the special interest of the Independence Party or of certain elements in which it seems to have been received, even to the point that it is so high below the head that it can be handled in a spirit of direction that this matter is now being planned. When this issue is involved, it is a special raid, a raid, an outing, in the media. This needs to be specific to the media, and heads are being counted, and they do not usually fail, nor do they try to dissuade anyone in some way who disagrees with the case. They are not tried to be reasoned, as they are so poor for the matter. They are shocked to try to charge people's language by saying they're old-fashioned, lame, even against beer, I don't know what and what. I just feel like we're missing the black/white TV, that we'd wanted it to go on. [[The president calls.]] There are such sad arguments that prove to me that people do not have many other and more material things to support them. [[The president calls.]] That's why they try to keep it this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u49	A respectable president. I'm a sponsor for the case, and I'm not a member of the Independence Party and I'm not wearing shorts. I don't find it particularly interesting to discuss whether this is some particular priority or something, it's a lot of subjects that happen before the council, and this is just one of the repeated discussions at the council, and a lot of people are interested in this, including me. There's no particular priority in my mind to agree with this, but this is not why I'm in politics, but I find the matter very interesting and I support it. One thing or another, talking about what's going on. A senator will draw my attention. There's one thing I'd like to ask about. Is this in his mind a complete basis for limitation of access -- I think it is certainly very important to limit access to alcohol in some way - that the state runs its stores? It doesn't look like that to me at this party. It's sort of evened, like. in a very large report by the World Health Organization whether the State is running its stores or the State is putting the laws on how the stores should be run. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that this is really true? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u50	Mr. President. Of course, I can agree with that. A senator that there's no point in the matter that I turned aside from running past and did not make my point, that this was a strangely high priority, especially for members of the Independence Party. It's just a reality that comes to us. Of course, it is the material content of the matter, which is its main concern and that is to be considered. I'd like to reason on that line. That is what we should communicate with each other. I would like to hear the answers to the issues involved in our presentation when we witness to a surgeon, a witness in international reports, etc. Can humans limit their bioavailability and control it in ways other than the fact that it is a government agreement? Yes, of course, business arrangements can be decided by the law, but it is my conclusion that the most reliable cover on it is what we and three of the other northern countries have had and used, and the place has been a guard in all four countries, with the result that it is considered to be to imitate those who provide counseling in this field. [[The president calls.]] I consider it to be the most reliable arrangement, although, of course, there may be some success in the laws that established and limited the prospects of those who were involved in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u51	A respectable president. I don't think it's a weak link. A senator because we have simply in front of us a very good example of how it has all been accomplished in setting up a law on shops and achieving public health goals and freedom of business. An example is the drug. Medicinal products are sold in private trades, but by the laws and regulations of the State and by those handling such products. Tobacco is another outstanding example. It is not a Kingdom Hall on tobacco, tobacco is sold at the store, but the government, the legal authority, has established progressive strict rules and laws on how to sell tobacco. You can't see it in the camp this time. Tobacco consumption has been debilitating. Why can't we see what we're doing? A senator does not realize that drinking is the same, that he is well equipped with freedom to handle the goods and sell them, and that he can reach the public health issues and the limits he chooses? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u52	Mr. President. I think it's very thought - provoking to use the concept of freedom in this matter. Freedom from who and for what? Free of personal purchases to gain money from selling alcohol? Is it such a precious freedom? Is that really true? This bill is no compromise, okay? Senator. It's going all the way. There are no special restrictions that can be said to involve them when it is assumed that alcohol can enter a grocery store and the red wine bags can be next to the meat table, etc., strong alcohol, including alcohol. If we were discussing how we wanted to limit access to alcohol and wanted to do it like that and then discussing an arrangement, we'd be closer to speaking the same language, but it's not because I read in the bill that there's a basic analysis of whether there's a limit to alcohol access.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u53	V.E.G. President. It's bad to have just one minute, I'm gonna talk fast. For the first time, economic impact. I read it in a talk. A senator's concern was that a few large chains of trade would be remembered over this market. I'd like to ask if he agrees with me in that the goods distribution that this one at the grocery store will lead to an increase in regular food prices where it is clear to hire older people, etc. This is number one. Another question is to him as an old minister of finance. It has been shown, in the review of business companies to the Committee, that it is not possible for the store to return alcohol tax to only every two months that ETSVR must be done twice a month. I'd like to ask you what. A senator as an old financier is not going to be in a cash flow in the state where we're talking about 500 to 800 million every six months, which would be every eight weeks if this was going to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u54	Mr. President. Yeah, it's my projection. This is my feeling that, based on conversations with many people and visits at the Economic and Business Committee last year, the most likely consequence of a person's exhilarating to agree with this bill would be that the supermarkets would take over it; they'd get the commissions, they'd have to wipe out the holsters or the agency mostly, buy them up or push them out of the market and get them all over it. And then this store goes into what? Into the classic low-level environment in Iceland. Thus, in a competitive manner, it cannot be imagined as a result of improvement. Is it really affecting the price? In some ways, this could help to make the home more useful, but in turn, extra human resources would come, etc., if people were to be properly prepared to make sure that youths are not selling alcohol to other youths. Of course, nothing has to be taken to collect taxes from the government, and other things are most assured by the government's having its stores in their hands. Is that not the most direct way of doing so? Will the taxes and the liquor, as well as the other? [[The president calls.]] No one needs to doubt that if this is released from the state, the risk is on the other side.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u55	V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if he has studied a verse that has been sent to ESA regarding the role of the bill, if agreed, at Article 11. The EEA Convention, where the government is delivering sales, which is certainly conditional in the EEA Convention, private agents with 92◯95% of the market? This was shown in the case of a man. Since the time of the beer, drinking alcohol on a person has grown tremendously. It's so remarkable that it has increased in sales at restaurants that it seems to bring us back to the truth of increasing the supply and increase the value of sales. Where it is. A senator is versed in a Norwegian team, so I would like to ask him how he feels he has an 11 litre of pure alcohol consumption per person in Iceland, since it is probably comparable to what Dan is dealing with today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u56	Mr. President. This has only been reported on the EEA rights and the possible conflict there. Clearly, we can have this arrangement. We have been given the opportunity to do so, and we have had some peace with it, even though things have gone on. But as soon as the government was delivering its own private sale to the private market, there must be some viewpoints about how it would be done; at least it doesn't look so good if it almost goes directly to the hands of a few competitors. Other persons could possibly sue on the European Court. According to this bill, there are smaller stores that are not permitted to sell alcohol. Is that not a violation of equality? If it's already in the private market, don't everyone have to sit there at the same table? I'm not from the fact that we're going to see a lot of lawsuits going into this one. I specifically mentioned Denmark and Greenland in my Norwegian comparison. The problem is at hand, and it is an alcohol - dealing arrangement with a people that the people of this bill want to visit here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u57	Mr. President. I've been asked by the press, as I think almost all of them are. Councilmen, how I like this bill and if I'm a follower of allowing alcohol to be sold at grocery stores. I've answered that I'm not following that. For such an attitude, the following is a basic reason. First of all. Alcohol is not like any other food, nor is it necessary to support it further. Alcohol abuse is well - known, and even if it is only because of it, it should only be sold at special stores. Second of all. Increased bioavailability of alcohol increases consumption. There have been studies. Transporters might now say that the increase is not that high, so it is to account for each percentage increase in alcohol consumption that adds greater weight and causes more damage than the percentage below when it is added. There, for example, there may be a limit between moderate consumption and excessive consumption. Third, please. Increased consumption of alcohol causes health damage. The World Health Organization estimates that alcohol consumption is among the strongest risk factors for public health. Health, law enforcement, insurance systems, and employment have been identified in the community and in the community. If governments are serious about supporting the bill, they also need to tell where to take the money in order to meet the cost. Fourth off. Increasing consumption increases the distress of descendants and caregivers of those who consume alcohol to excess. If governments make decisions that lead to an increase in alcohol consumption, for example, children and young people in this country will be increased. It is among the side effects the bill would bring against it as law. Number five. If alcohol is found in a special store, it is a special decision to enter the liquor store and to buy alcohol, not to think about it as soon as you walk past the drinking tank at the grocery store. The preemptive activity of the Italians in alcohol abuse has attracted international attention. That job is based on how we have limited access, and that's how I want it to continue here. I like more dogs. Councilmen have asked why this case is one of the priorities of independence, a matter addressed to other members of Congress. What is the great need to carry out what the bill foretells? That's really controversial. It's not just a debate in this chamber, it's a matter of community opinion. Mr. President. Last September 17th, Gunnar Alexander Ólafsson wrote an article on science. He says, with President's permission: ▪ Alcohol is not the same as any other product. Drinking alcohol is not the same as drinking sodas or milk. Alcohol is a drug, and in my opinion, it is not a business to enter a supermarket. Rather, it should be because of the nature and damage of drinking as easily as possible. The main factors of public alcohol prevention are strong prevention, high drinking age, high alcohol taxes, and restricted access to alcohol. Alcohol prevention has over the years been very powerful, both by public members and by members of society such as the U.S.A., the sports movement, and the Good Work Programme. In Iceland, drinking has been higher than any other country we compare with. It's mostly Sweden and Finland, who have the same age limit as Iceland. Since the ban in 1922, alcohol sales have been under government control. Today, the State School of Alcohol and Tobacco runs 48 liquor stores across the country, ensuring adequate access to alcohol. If one of the four sources of alcohol abuse were based on government policy, the result would be more alcohol consumption. This increase will lead to more social problems, more drunk driving, more domestic violence, more divorces, more alcohol - related deaths, more lost work hours for alcohol and society agencies (social service, health, police, etc.). will have to spend more costs (man and money) to cope with the consequences. A recent Swedish study investigated the effect of allowing alcohol to be sold in a grocery store. The number of driving episodes, attacks, deaths, and sick days would increase and if the numbers were applied to Iceland, the rate of drunk driving would increase by 230 a year, assault by 700 a year, and deaths from a higher level of alcohol consumption by 70 a year. The number of sick days would increase by 390 thousands. Gunnar Alexander continues to ask: ▪ Is a change of course warranted? No.How can I - And I agree with him. - We're supposed to maintain the same arrangement for selling alcohol today. All I know is that Iceland's people are happy with the alcohol - related policies, so I think we should maintain our conservative alcohol policy. It has proved to be fine and, as an example of success, can be pointed to the results of studies of drug abuse in high school seniors in Iceland, 1997,2013. This study showed that in 1997 about 50% of all students in the 10th grade had drunk alcohol once or more in the past 30 days. This proportion had reached 11% in 2013. There I was, Mr President, quoting an article that Dr. Gunnar Alexander Ólafsson wrote last fall. The surgeon general has published a summary of the study reports on alcohol. To provide information on the extent and extent of the research, I would like to mention some of them. In 2009 a survey of drug abuse by Icelandic youths was conducted in an international comparison between 1995 and 2007. The results of only watching alcohol are that in the last 30 days, young Icelandic youths between 15 and 16 years of age consume what the minimum alcohol is compared to other youths in Europe. Norway, Sweden, and Finland all place low levels of alcoholic beverages. In Denmark, the highest level of alcohol drinking in Europe is sold at grocery stores. In a European study from 2010 for a summary of the costs associated with alcohol consumption, the results are that the costs associated with alcohol consumption, including Health services, social care, crime, drunk driving, and loss of employment all rise. Let me mention another 2009 study of the association between alcohol and its harmful effects with increased or restricted bioavailability. The conclusion is that there is a positive link between the number of shops and the increase in alcohol consumption as well as damage, including the number of stores. Disease, injury, crime, violence. Controlling the bioavailability of alcohol can be a good control tool to reduce alcohol abuse and its negative consequences. In 2012, the effects of privateisations on alcohol abuse and its harm were examined. The conclusion is that strong evidence suggests an increase in alcohol consumption and alcohol consumption as a result of the privatization of alcohol. Businesses on alcohol sales contribute to less harm than free sales. One of the most effective ways to reduce excessive consumption and prevent the death and harm caused by alcohol is the government's control at a store. In 2010, a study of the possible consequences of shutting down the government's patents on alcohol sales in Sweden and taking up free shops was conducted. Two cases were taken in advance. First of all, trade patents for other exclusive liquor stores and second, allowing liquor sales at grocery stores. The first case is estimated to yield a 17% increase in alcohol consumption, which would increase the incidence of deaths by 770, assault by 8,500, and disease days would increase by 4.5 million. every year. The second event is estimated to yield a 37.4% increase in alcohol consumption, which would increase the incidence of death by 2,000, assault by 20,000, and disease days by 11.1 billion. every year. This is a 2011-based study of alcohol consumption following privatisation and is summarised in 17 studies. The results indicated that a 44% increase in alcohol sales per person is in privatized. A pooled of nine studies indicated that there is a 2.2% reduction in alcohol sales in areas where there is a 2.2% decrease in alcohol production at Kingdom Halls. Then there is a Swedish study from 2013 onward, alcohol and society, the emphasis on youths. The conclusion is that although there is evidence that alcohol consumption in Sweden has been delayed in recent years, the proportion remains high, as well as its harmful effects. There is evidence that alcohol deaths, alcohol - related road accidents, and violence have been increasing. And it's important to maintain the government's patents on liquor sales, strict drinking driving laws, and high tax on alcohol. Alcohol consumption in the OECD countries has been investigated, and this is a 2013 study. There's the conclusion that Iceland, Norway, and Sweden join the European countries in OECD that drink at least seven liters per person in 2010, while the average OECD is between nine and ten litres per person. Time's flying. I had planned to cite even more research than I would like to comment. The members of the council are to examine all these research together, pondering their harmony and how we in Iceland can learn in this regard and whether there is really reason to change our course, which has been cited as a model for other countries that have the problem that the people and countries drink too much. Mr. President. It has been noted that the Independence Party places great emphasis on this matter as top priority. Those who discussed the debate in the fall at the beginning of the council, both representing the Independence Party, mentioned the matter primarily as top priority and freedom. I think it's very interesting. A 2013 U.S. study of the connection between alcohol and economic growth in the United States is one of the studies that can be considered on the land of surgeons. This was where data were examined from 1971◯2007. The result is that the increase in alcohol consumption is associated with a decrease in economic growth and the decrease in alcohol consumption associated with an increase in yield rate and in an increase in alcohol taxation yield. I think this is a major investigation, and I would like to encourage the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics to take a good look at it. It seems that those who talk about government management and the importance of increasing economic growth also want alcohol at the grocery store, although all reputable research shows that it has just the increase in the cost of the state and the growth of the economy. I think these strange contradictions. I haven't yet received an explanation for the contradiction, and I haven't yet received it from transporters, which I hope I hear from afterwards, where to find the money to attend the cost of the bill, it will be legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u58	Mr. President. Hv. A member of the council introduced a number of studies that all of us support not taking the step of taking alcohol to shopping. A UNICEF report on the economic deficiency of children in Iceland was published today. I'd like to get out of the interest of kids to ask me why. A senator in what he sees the bill conforms to the United Nations Children's Convention, where we are talking about the priorities of children's interests for all decision making. We share, I don't think that the increased bioavailability of alcohol increases the consumption. The children who have parents who are weak for alcohol and who are the weakest group we are concerned about if alcohol gets into a general grocery store, where each one of us needs to shop his groceries and not be able to avoid it, will worry about regularly entering such food stores with a parent who is ill for alcohol and who has alcohol in his eyes. This could have consequences for children's ill effects in general, so much and an increase in bioavailability that would follow the removal of the government's exclusive rights and the transfer of alcohol into the general grocery store, as is being done here. I just wanted to hear a little attitude. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question and for reminding us that by submitting to the United Nations Children's Covenant, we have also agreed to make and evaluate all decisions according to the needs and interests of children. Clearly, increasing alcohol consumption will not improve the benefit of children living in a household with excessive consumption. As I said before, people have insisted in this conference that by bringing the alcohol at the grocery store, consumption will not increase so much, it will only increase by a 1562%, which is a minor increase in their opinion. But each percent is added to the already existing consumption is much more important than the previous percent. It is even between drinking and drinking alcoholic beverages. I don't have to worry about it here, we know that the heartache of children growing up with parents who drink too much alcohol is great. I was at this presentation today on the UNICEF report on children's material deficiency. There are some things in the report that we need to consider more and to unite in improving. In the face of material shortages, we should not decide to increase the discomfort of young people because of the increased drinking of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this. You talk so strongly about freedom, which is the death of others, to get alcohol into all stores and to say that part of it is a free society, and it is not a monopoly on this product, which I consider to be no general consumer product, but a product that needs to be handled as such, even though it is permitted. This, of course, is not ordinary daily consumer food. I often feel inferior to Iceland and me to say it's like this in a foreign country, and they're gonna survive, and everything's fine in there. Can we Iceland, with all these available research on the consequences of increasing access to alcohol, not only run our own independent alcohol policy and how we live on it, which has been very successful in reducing consumption and consumption of young people in recent years? [[The president calls.]] Can't we stick to our own independent policy and keep it as it has been? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u61	Mr. President. Of course, it is not that all parts of the country have alcohol in grocery stores, and that is why we have the comparison between countries. In fact, we have research showing changes in alcohol consumption in Sweden when Sweden changed its course to government business from private business. Research shows that the step we should not take in this matter is an increase in bioavailability. If we are not completely incapable of learning from the experience of others, of course, we should take this into consideration. Do we need to test our own social and health costs by putting alcohol in a grocery store? We know that this will result in expenses, both physical and spiritual.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u62	V.E.G. President. You hear very often this sentence and statement: And research shows that increasing availability increases shops. There are studies from abroad carried out by people who are fighting alcohol instead of just looking at reality here. Here, the bioavailability has increased dramatically over the last 25 years, not just at the NTVR stores, but at all these restaurants at every corner. All kinds of places have been obtained with alcohol licenses, a huge increase in bioavailability has been observed. Nevertheless, the consumption of youths and younger ones is reduced. It's just a stat, it's just a reality. But no, people choose to refer to studies in a world that I don't even know how they are done and probably very selective how they do it. The same speech was here when the beer arrived, everything would go to hell in the nation's health, 25 years ago, or whatever it was. The nation's health hasn't gotten any worse since the beer arrived. I can't even see that alcohol consumption has increased over a million people during this time and that there will be another million tourists. In the event of all of this intervention, consumption has probably not increased despite all of this. Still, it is urgent that studies in foreign lands, people who fight alcohol, show this and the other things, and they have become the Holy Truth. Let's just watch Icelandic reality. Who is he? Who did he become with the beer? It's a lot more normal. Probably a lot more moderate. Young people's consumption is shrinking. I know a lot of people have problems. The nation's biggest problem is not drug abuse, but it is the consumption of unsatisfactory food and obesity. No one can think of putting candy, soda, snacks, special stores. [[The president calls.]] It's just that they're trapped in some amazing repercussion that obviously is impossible to get out of.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u63	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator at the convention, whether he studied the research on many points, and whether he knows who the investigators are there. These are studies both American and Canadian, west and east, and various comparative studies carried out by reputable scholars, not always by institutions that have some special benefit in getting results showing an increase in access to alcohol harmful effects and the high cost of buying alcohol. The defenses have worked here at home. But this also means that the bioavailability is not good for young people. This is not a bioavailability for young people. But drinking has increased. It has increased as soon as the bioavailability has improved in this country. It also grew as the beer grew and changed. This includes research. The reality here on the land has been examined. And we're in a defense struggle by saying that we don't want to increase access. We fear it and feel almost certain of it, because we can support it through research, national and foreign, that the success we have achieved at the prevention of young people could be a courtyard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u64	V.E.G. President. I can tell you what. paritaprevir It's a new Oddný Harðardóttir that I haven't studied in any of these research. I think it's all right to look at the reality that I see in my eyes. That's a much better investigation. The reality is that this, despite the tremendous increase in wine markets, sales markets, has reduced the consumption of young people. That's all I need. I don't need some American survey. I'm just watching this. That's it. This may not be a prince's case for me, I am now a gentleman number one for the ATVR. It's not a big deal for me, but it's still a certain prince, and it's a regular product. Hv. A senator said it wasn't like any other product. A product generally used in the country is a general consumer product, a product like any other product. We should not always aim for those who cannot control the product.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u65	Madam President. I cannot agree that alcohol is a regular product because alcohol not only affects the body directly but also affects people's thinking and actions. For studies of young drinking, which has been tested to the ruins, in Iceland, in other countries and throughout the world, because alcohol consumption among young people is a problem, we've been successful here. There has also been some fine results in Sweden and Finland, but Denmark is in a lot of trouble. It is also the only country in these countries that sells alcohol in grocery stores, and studies show that there is a link between these countries. We are to learn from studies. Every man can watch his own reality. There are many of us in here who are alcoholics' children. [[The president calls.]] We know how all of this works. We know that increasing bioavailability will result in costs and complications.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u66	A respectable president. That's exactly what I'm gonna ask you. A senator on this comparison with Denmark. During the discussion, I find that this complex matter is being simplified. There's a lot of practicers that I know about, I guess that's on the part of them too. A senator who determines the level of alcohol in every country and how much alcohol is consumed. I've heard earlier in my discussion that it compares with Denmark and says: "See you young people drinking in Denmark, she's extremely heavy, and alcohol is allowed there at grocery stores. Hv. A senator and other senators who have used this comparison can't, perhaps it's deliberate, I don't know that the major difference is in Iceland and Denmark when it comes to buying alcohol at the rate of 16 years in Denmark and 20 years here. Based on the research I have read and the reports I have read, the age limit is a much more effective factor in reducing alcohol consumption, I don't talk about when it comes to young drinking, than I ever do at a liquor store. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Is she convinced that this difference in alcohol sales between Denmark and Iceland is not relevant to this comparison and is even a more aggressive factor than ever the one who sells the wine?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u67	Madam President. I've read some of the research on this subject. I've never found out that this is a more important factor, i.e. Whether the State is a patent or a private sale. However, there are many studies in schoolchildren, aged 15 years, that answer questions, and that show that the problem in the North countries is the greatest in Denmark. A large school study that covers more European countries than North America shows this too. I'm sure age matters, but I've never seen it, and I can't allow myself to say it, because nothing in the research I've read supports age, i.e. If youths are allowed to buy alcohol at 16 years of age, I have never realized that drinking was very important at the age of 14 and 15. It may be, however, that I cannot support that viewpoint or comment. A senator with the research I have read.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u68	A respectable president. In itself, I wasn't praying. A senator evaluates who would be the most important part of her mind, her age limit, or her business. But to me, I only use my understanding of it, I feel that it must be a powerful step in the alcohol movement of every country what the age limit is. If we're comparing juvenile drinking, as we've been doing over and over in the discussion, between Iceland and Denmark, and I can't say that the age limit in Denmark is 16 years and 20 years here, I don't think it's a subject of business. I don't think that's fair. I don't think that's an advantage for the discussion. It may well be that there's someone in the grocery store too, but I'd like to say it like a dog. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son that it's quite remarkable to see the Icelandic example in that context, because it's like a bat. A senator traced his speech earlier then has an enormous increase in access to alcohol in Iceland, so much so. A senator used the wording ◯ It has become available enough. This has happened in recent years. Still, juvenile drinking has gone down. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you, " How is that possible? ' Does this not suggest that there are many other teachers who determine how the alcohol culture is rather than the availability? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u69	Madam President. Me and the Icelanders have derided us a little by having taken down our teen drinking in recent years, and our reserve policy has worked, and we have been looked upon. I don't want to overdo the results. Not at all. However, it is just that no matter how we come back or forth, the increase in bioavailability and price of alcohol has the largest impact on alcohol consumption. There are more, more than thousands of surveys, a summary, both west and east, showing this. It's access and price. What we're talking about is to increase the bioavailability considerably and we do it but clearly. EICs do this without pointing out where to take the money for the costs it will bring. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u70	A respectable president. I'm one of the carriers of this bill, making a decision to be, but as I said earlier today, it's a long time ago that I think this is a special priority. I'm not going to lose any sleep in myself, even though any alcohol - dealing arrangement will not be changed in the near future. As mentioned in this discussion, alcohol availability is in many respects sufficient. I'm not in politics because of this case or anything like that. But I've been watching the discussion on this matter because I find this interesting, and in this case, I think there's a certain difference between approach to certain basics in politics, such as freedom and responsibility. There is underlying conflict about how we provide for ourselves a healthy society and how we should contribute to a healthy society. I think it's interesting. In itself, I did not intend to give a talk to a 1st talk. about this matter, but I have been listening to very many opposers who have spoken against it, and I can't really speak anymore. I feel like trying to paint the picture that if you're a sponsor of the case, you've become a advocate of the cancer of the throat and the sponges I heard today, liver damage, you've become the advocate of drunk driving, domestic violence, and additional expenses for state funds; a advocate of disrespect for children, and they've become worse, and so forth. This always gets worse. There are more and more things involved, so I am now moved to come up here and explain what I am about to do in support of this matter. That's mostly three. That's basic. In some sustainable way, I feel that a healthy society in the long run is a free society. I feel that in a healthy community together freedom and responsibility. I sometimes use an example of how Icelanders treat the weather and nature in this regard. We are free to travel in Iceland, however, but Iceland and I know of long-term contact with nature and freedom of movement, that we must dress well when we face bad weather, we must prepare well. There is no dictatorialism, no rule in itself, nor a legislator authority, which replaces this responsibility that exists in a free society. This is a very basic approach, but I am absolutely aware that society cannot be free of charge. I want to use various motivations to promote public health. I'd like to use the legal authority and regulations to help that, too. But this is a basic approach. And I think we've been watching this about alcohol and other medicines, very health risks, like tobacco. There has been increased freedom, increased bioavailability. Out here in the East, you can go to ten to fifteen places, I don't know, and buy alcohol in two minutes, depending on how long you can walk there. It wasn't like that. It's all gone up. I still think it's safe to say that my drinking culture has improved. And although big steps have been taken, such as allowing beer, allowing the sale of alcoholic beer. Alcohol consumption has indeed increased. But the alcohol culture - I think most people agree - has improved. So there are some of these things and the examples are in front of us. Selling tobacco is free. She wasn't free. Selling drugs is free. She wasn't free. Yet, I think society is much better than in the past, at least when it comes to contact with tobacco. The consumption of tobacco decreases year by year despite freedom of sales. But the law code is here, here we put the cover. There's nothing to talk about changing that. I feel that this is a step that would make it possible for people to choose to buy alcoholic beverages at grocery stores or other shops but only stately shops, to increase responsibility, to improve alcohol culture, and to be in line with other steps we have taken, a very moderate step toward increasing freedoms that have just increased responsibility and improved alcohol culture. There's a lot of talk here about research and reports. I've read my share. One of the things that interests me is that Icelanders make a rather high point when it comes to alcohol abuse, tarnit. There are some indications that a special store, whether successful or not with alcohol, contributes to the drinking of tar. A natural person can use understanding to argue. If you always have to go to a special place to buy the wine, you are likely to buy a lot of wine and go there because you plan to go to or contribute to a drink. That's why he's buying a lot. However, the same reports, such as by the World Health Organization, show that in communities where alcohol is absorbed with food, alcohol is better. There's my tar to drink, my alcohol abuse. I ask them: If we want to take this type of alcohol habit along the way, is it not wise to sell alcohol with food? Sell it in those places? Connect it? Perhaps we don't remember seeing that when alcohol is sold at such stores, this huge purchase of alcohol reduces, losing the community's demand to be always buying lots of alcohol at once, and pouring in? It's not out of thin air. I am referring to various studies suggesting that we are abusing alcohol. It may well be the arrangements for the sale to help. I want the government to focus on basic services. I want to have a powerful and efficient government power when it comes to infrastructure and infrastructure and setting the rules for society. I don't think that drinking shops are basic services, something the government should do. In fact, I think it's an unhealthy and unpleasant arrangement that the same person handles the legal process of drinking and drinking - he contributes to all kinds of public health projects to avoid alcohol abuse, and he takes care of alcohol traffic - and then sells alcohol as well. I think it would be more reasonable to sell alcohol on other shoulders, and the state's authority is focused on the surveillance role, setting reasonable limits on sales, reaching public health goals on alcohol consumption, setting reasonable alcohol policy. Besides, it's not out of thin air at my place. I simply build it on how we approach other things that are dangerous in our society. This is how we're dealing with drugs. We put the rules here and the law, then it's private people that do the store. It's also the arrangement for firearms, explosives, tobacco. Here we set the rules, then we take care of the other sale, and we monitor that it is followed. One thing interests me when I read a very extensive report by the World Health Organization on the status of alcohol in countries around the world. I think it is now an almost complete summary of the level of alcoholism in countries around the world, this 2014 report. There are some practicers whose culture is important and who drink alcohol, whether it is healthy, this alcohol culture, or not. I am impressed by the fact that in this report, it is all balanced whether the arrangements of the sale are directly cared for by the government or by the state or by the government, and with the rights and limitations. It's totally leveled. This brings my attention to this discussion. What are we talking about here? It is only to take the step that the State will no longer care for the sale and the private people will care for it - but with official permission and public conditions. It seems to me that from the view of the World Health Organization, we are doing very little, moving with a very impressionable proverb when it comes to whether or not we interfere with the drinking process for the worse. Others, however, are named there, which is very influential. For example, whether alcohol will be sold at a gas station. There's one thing we call it. It does not exist here, although it has actually been established in the local community, without anyone saying anything about it. There is talk of limited age. We're just getting in on it in front of you before, talking to what. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. The age limit is very important. In Denmark it is 16 years. There's a lot of teenage drinking in there. It's 20 years here. That's not what they're talking about. It's going to be 20 years. The cost of alcohol is very important, too. In some lands, there are no costs of alcohol, and alcohol is nothing but a fear - inspiring thing. Obviously, it is a large teacher who affects the way alcohol is drank in their lands. There's a lot of alcohol in here, and no one to talk about it here reducing it. I think there's an agreement that there's an important step in reducing alcohol consumption. I feel that opposers of the bill sometimes talk as if they're taking a huge step here. I don't know how these talks would be different if we were just talking about allowing alcohol in a society that would have banned it so far. I think the talks are like that. It's like you're taking a step that will contribute to the drinking of alcohol in Iceland for the first time. This isn't it. It's just about to set up freedom in the store, based on the fundamental principles I've been describing support, that the state should not care for shops, that there are other people out there who have ambitions and knowledge of how to take care of the store. I said I'd base my support on three basics. I think I mentioned them all. I support a society of freedoms and responsibilities. I think we're taking that step in this bill. I want the government to focus on basic services and not on business, that's what others are doing. And I'd like to add to the drinking culture. I think this step would do it. It is then said that this step would adversely affect a store with alcohol. I knew that an economic and business committee at the last council issued a majority opinion that had a little discussion on these views. There are certainly, I think, small sale market failures in Iceland. There is a tendency for large groups to take over goods. But I ask, " Why should we be particularly concerned about alcohol in this regard? ' If we are concerned about the marketing of a small sale, should we not worry more about needed products than about alcohol? For example, food? If we are concerned, why do we not want a government store with food? Wouldn't it be a better approach to try to beat the failings that we see possible in the competitive environment in Iceland? Trying to establish a balanced environment in this regard? Is it in some way logical, to think that there may be a market failure in Iceland, that alcohol is given special treatment, and that it is in some special government chain to support, in this defective environment, that alcohol is at least awesome? I don't quite understand that argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech. I do not agree with him on the basics, nor do I agree with him about any of his statements regarding tobacco, which he says is now more accessible. All I can remember is that 20, 30 years ago when I came into the labor movement, every meeting was smoked, in every public office there was a smoke. Now it's been severely restricted. In shops where tobacco is for sale, it is hidden. Care is taken not to let your children know. On the other hand, salinism changed. The exposure to tobacco is great for the consumer. But let it lie in between things. Hv. One senator said that this discussion was extreme. So the shoes are made to include advocates of the bill as advocates of hepatitis and cancer of the neck, and so on. On the other hand, I can add that we are listed as advocates of ancient ideas, etc. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, the basic thought we are playing is based on reports received from the health authorities from the grass - based organizations that all of us are asking us to reject the bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does a senator really think that he should not listen to that person?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u72	A respectable president. Of course, the person should be listened to. I do it as a senator Bjarts' future, and I hope that members of other classes do the same. We are also advised here to have our views and to base our case on our own convictions. Many of the things I read, as stated at the beginning of my talk, and I have had reason to give them a talk on the subject. I think things are a little strange from where I come from. A team in listening is also having a conversation with the people who have given their impression on the bill. Tobacco. Hv. A senator may have misunderstood me when I mentioned it. I mentioned an example of tobacco because it is and was set free by tobacco trade, yet its availability was limited by the various means that we have invented here and elsewhere in law and regulations. Of course, the same is true with alcohol. [[The president calls.]] Although free from alcohol, there are still many ways to limit access to it. [[The president calls.]] I'm trying to address the concern of those who are opposed to the bill in these topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u73	V.E.G. President. The director of Hagah also said that he was now opening up to the limit a few days ago or hours ago. They waited for the government to set limits. The limitations will be in behalf of the big shopping programs that everyone wants the bill to succeed. So, every bill-teller is against it, except for store stakeholders. That's the fact. When youth - oriented groups, guardians, sports movements, youth groups, doctors, health groups, surgeon generals, ask us to reject the bill, should we not really listen to them? If that's true. A senator said that he had not gone into politics because of this bill, and this wasn't a big deal for him, but if this is the will of these parties, should we not take it into account and do what they want? So, do the people show respect?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u74	A respectable president. With good intentions, I could interpret this answer so that I should simply keep my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u75	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u76	Don't think about it, because there are so many people against it. [[No.]] I have listened attentively to the arguments against this, and there is one thing that has attracted my attention, such as, for example, that men compare with Denmark, as this has repeatedly been done, and that the age limit there is 16 years, 20 here, and it may be a significant difference. It is impossible for humans to find that all kinds of analysts in these materials are completely equal to the authorised business and the government's operation. That's what we're talking about here. Is that what the State is supposed to do or do? As I mentioned in my talk, there is some evidence that there is a market failure in commercial and services in Iceland. I think we need some action to fix it and increase competition. The logical reaction is not taking alcohol out of place and having it in some government store. [[The president calls.]] Better fix the environment. In fact, it seems to me that there is a lot of evidence to suggest that there are very little people doing good things, such as in the brewing of beer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u77	V.E.G. President. Fine dog. A member of the congregation who finished his talk, which I thank for, complained somewhat that he was accused of wanting to increase some of the diseases. I don't think the Senator has to howl about this. The other is so different - if he's read all the reviews that have been received on this subject, from the surgeon general, WHO, Children's Health, the Medical Association, all these societies warn about it. Although I'm a big fan of my ability to make my own decisions, I usually listen to professionals. I do not argue with walled walls, for he has more knowledge of the matter than I do. That's why I don't argue about the effect of drinking alcohol at the National Medical Association, the Nurse Association, the Psychological Association, with the Children's Guy - I don't argue with these people, I'm turning around for reasons. It is next certain that if we agree with this bill, alcohol consumption will grow here with certain consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u78	A respectable president. Once again, my views are just part of the discussion. I'm not required as a senator to agree with all the comments on this bill. For example, I have declared that in this subject this particular freedom, which is being attempted to establish here, is an absolute contrast to human health. I have given an example of some of the cautions of commercial freedoms, yet we have reached public health goals. I'm also saying that I can't accept the basic assumption that it is necessary, to prevent alcohol access, that the government cares for the store. I don't think it's illogical. There is no debate that increased bioavailability may, however, be an example among certain groups of Icelanders, such as Adolescents, the increased bioavailability has not increased. I'm not prepared to accept that only this bill is an additional bioavailability. [[The president calls.]] There are so many other steps we can take to limit access, even though we accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u79	V.E.G. President. In itself, there was an answer. A senator himself asked the question about what enhances access. He testified that at any time in ten places on the other side of the field alcohol could be purchased. That's the whole point. The increase since 1989 is not in the ATSVR stores except to a small extent, at the restaurants. This is where the bioavailability has been increased. That's where the increase is. Then he spoke up. A senator said that we Icelanders would come and buy drinks for weekends, because we were going to fall into it terribly. It wouldn't be like that in the cultures around us. I was at a dancing store on Friday. There I was at my age buying my dose for the weekend. There were about two or four cases of ale. They could have come there every minute and bought one bottle if they'd thought of it. What freedom is now! But this is what the buying was all about. And because of what? A senator said: "It's like we're taking a huge step. Yes, we are. We're taking a step here that will increase the consumption of pure alcohol on a man of seven litres to eleven. That's a hell of a step.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u80	A respectable president. Of course, it's not that simple. The same argument was applied, although someone may be irritated by the use of an illustration when it was decided to allow the sale of alcoholic beer. Of course, it was to allow the sale of alcoholic beer to increase alcohol consumption. It did. But one must ask: Did it improve the drinking? It's another concept that comes into it. I think it did, yes. I watch a society where alcohol consumption has indeed increased, and freedom has increased in drug sales, which includes the fact that alcohol is available in most parts of the country at any time of the day in Iceland. [[Up front.]] It's kind of hard to imagine more access. At the same time -- and I make this statement, I've been in front of a whole meeting at the ATVR, claiming this and seeing a lot of nods - Iceland's alcohol culture has greatly improved as we've increased freedom. I think it's just the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. In contrast with the above, it was given convincingly to the senator's affairs, in contrast with the above, with strong opinions, especially with those that attract freedom. I'd like to ask the senator, because I can agree with him that freedom of shopping is important, if it doesn't surprise them that the bill is restricted to who can shop for this product. In this way, for example, the sale is excluded. So I ask why. A senator said that if this is being given at all freely, the sale of the product should be free, whether it is a car shop or baby shops or flowers. Is there any particular limit to the commercial freedom that should be brought in by this product? Then why not sell it 24 hours a day seven days a week of those whom it wants where they want to go? Churches or social homes or what these may be?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u82	A respectable president. In fact, I don't think that access to alcohol is high in Iceland. I think anyone who wants to get a drink can get a drink. Therefore, as I traced my speech, I feel that the step to take with the bill is not very large. I can support that. I also said in my talk that I can understand many restrictions. For example, the World Health Organization report shows that it is unwise to sell alcohol at a gas station. I think it's a bit of a good point of view. I can agree with that. I think it's wise to have an age limit for shopping at grocery stores. I think there are many views that recommend selling alcoholic beverages with food, such as the one in my talk. There is evidence to suggest that healthy drinking is the drinking of alcoholic beverages with food. Why not sell wine with food? However, it is perturbing to consider how the real radical bill on the change in alcohol and the culture of the people of Iceland would appear. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are a number of factors that would have to move around to make it very radical. This is not a radical bill of mine.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u83	A respectable president. I think it's interesting. A senator is not in favor of commercial freedoms with this product. In other words, he thinks it's wise to set restrictions. The question, then, is of any kind of restriction. The Senator's information is sold at gas stations. The next time he goes up to the city's fun, which I know is dear to him, he can stop at Olis's gas station in the citynesi, where they sell alcohol. That is the reality we now face. Then there may be another question, because it speaks of stages or developments. Now our neighbors, Norwegians and Finnar, have taken the step of keeping between strong beer in shops and not burning drinks or strong liquor. Would it be some sort of moderate step that the senator considered to develop a manual with this product to continue or take more careful steps if he believes that health views need to be taken into account?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u84	A respectable president. My language was now a red thread. I said it wasn't a prerequisite for me to interfere with alcohol sales and how alcohol is sold that the stores are running stately. It was the red thread and the basics of my language. Anything at all. A senator is asking questions about rhymes quite well with that procedure. In fact, I'm saying that we're not playing out the possibility of limiting alcohol sales in a number of ways, even though the stores are not official. To allow alcohol to be sold in Iceland is an important step toward the freedom of business, yes, to allow anyone other than the state. Cut off state monopoly. It's the State's idea of alcohol. I feel that we are totally there, and I think it's wise and logical the next step to everything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u85	Madam President. I can, of course, agree with that. A member of Parliament that individual members of Parliament can have personal and grammatical reasons for their support or after experiences of opposition to the matter and respect for its appearance. The other suggestions didn't seem good to me, to start speaking like we're warning about the bill, and to draw out things that were somewhat well-confirmed and reasoned the inevitable consequences of alcohol and nose gains and studies, whether it is an increase in cirrhosis, increased domestic violence, increased drinking driving, or something like that, are we to say that those in the bill want it. I haven't heard anyone say that. On the other hand, discouragement can occur. A senator and others in the matter do not expect us to lose sight of the traveling overseers or the supporters to mention these things as they are. That far cannot be expected to go. [[The president calls.]] Because the sea is in such a state that the result of alcohol consumption is preconceived. It doesn't just have to refer to Iceland, it's internationally recognized that it has more problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u86	A respectable president. In this discussion, I feel that the movie brought up by the opponents of the bill is too simple. For example, as I have repeatedly pointed out in talks here today, many pioneers affect the number of alcohol consumptions, as well as the culture of alcohol. Whether or not alcohol is abused. I have mentioned an example of beer, beer has increased alcohol consumption, but I think many studies support it, such as the memory of a youth's drinking, suggesting that alcohol culture has improved and that the level of freedom in these substances has improved culture. That's what I'm saying. I don't feel right, therefore, to claim that the step to take on the bill will obviously cause all the problems that are being recorded, as if there are not many others, and that my wiser leaders would be helping with these problems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u87	Madam President. I'm not talking against the movers or the supporters of the case. I'm speaking against the case with logic. It will be those who have the opposite view to endure. The use of the freedom concept as a matter of course. A senator was involved, and much of it is said about freedom of choice and of shopping or about what it is now. Who are those who are deprived of freedom when it comes to discussing alcohol? They are the ones who are calm slaves of alcoholism. They are the only free men in this relationship. They, their families, their caregivers, their parents, their children, their spouses, etc. It is especially their freedom, that everything we can do to reduce the misery and the problems I feel should be resolved. The odds all fall on that side. Classes and experts warn that this will lead to increased consumption and increased problems. Who, then, is to enjoy the doubt? The probability of a relapse cannot be disputed. It would be more challenging to debate the extent of the pressure, how much this is likely to have. [[The president calls.]] Not in which direction it's going.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u88	A respectable president. I think this is going to have some effect. I reasoned that I believe that this would have the effect of getting better with my drinking culture, that we would stop drinking alcohol. It seems to me that we sell alcohol at special stores and at all times, something to be held up or done is going to that store and buying a considerable amount so that everyone can fall into it. It's been the drinking culture in Iceland. People buy alcohol at the Freest to take home and hamsters there while drinking with food is much more reasonable. Why should the drinking culture not change for the better? And once again: Am I reasoning on this matter in some way in support of ignoring alcoholism and the evils that alcohol brings to many? On the other hand, I insist that freedom is not the opposite of human health. I think it's possible to have a free, responsible community and public health. [[The president calls.]] Actually, I think it goes together. There is little to replace the responsibility of individuals for their own actions and personal lives, including association with alcohol. I think we can take that step without any disaster.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u89	Madam President. In my first speech, I examined basic evidence that I oppose this bill. I feel that there is reason to draw up in the second talk my big things, the big lines we can say. I think it's important when we're evaluating a case like this, the company thinks it's about increasing the commercial and business freedom in the country. Some of the sponsors of this bill feel that this also increases individual freedom. In my first speech, I reviewed that I don't believe that the situation as it is today in the arrangement of liquor sales in any way impairs the individual freedoms of the people living here, since we have not exactly seen much pressure from the common people to change that arrangement. I referred to Róbert H. Haraldsson's son, who wrote quite a few things on this subject and pointed out that it is quite simple to talk about the freedom of the store as one of the people's freedoms or freedoms of the individual. This is an important reason for my discussion. I also find an important argument in the discussion that the arrangements in this country are often held old - fashioned, yet we have many examples, both from other countries that we like to compare ourselves with and from states in the United States and Canada, where the same arrangement is exactly the same as we are of people and consider nothing old - fashioned. I used the opportunity the other day and asked a minister of the Norwegian government, the right government, if he had done anything about this matter in Norway, whether the arrangement was old-fashioned, whether it was needed to change it. He said: "It is not for any man to ask. We're looking at a state either west of the ocean or a state where no one is using that reasoning, as it's a natural old debate by calling the opponents old debate old without presenting any specific evidence. But the big thing about it, of course, is public health. It is now that in many areas where the arrangement is entirely different from here, where alcohol is listed as daily food, people discuss how access to alcohol can be limited by countless studies that many people have. In this discussion, members of the Parliament have studied, showing that access is one of the major factors in trying to limit the consumption of alcohol. We can see that the development of alcohol consumption in this country has increased considerably. For example, data are available on the land surgeon's website on how this consumption has increased. Because they often quote beer here and that they did not affect the amount of consumption, the amount of consumption of consumption increased, of course, as species grew, and did not have to be surprised, regardless of what you felt or felt about that matter in particular. Increasing sales places on alcohol will also increase consumption. We cannot overlook that. In Britain, where this was not the same arrangement, the change was made to increase the number of sales on alcohol. It has now been set up by a Parapolitic Parliamentary Committee that is working on proposals for the increase in consumption. This is the case with alcohol and is associated with its bioavailability. In France, chief wine culture in the world, or at least the current assessment is about how alcohol consumption can be limited, especially as a result of the high health costs caused by diseases such as cirrhosis and other factors directly linked to alcohol consumption. It includes not only social problems or the problems that come directly from alcoholism but also health problems, other health problems. I have to say, when I meet with my colleagues and colleagues in a European partnership, in a Norwegian partnership, they are surprised to learn that we in Iceland are really changing this arrangement, to increase access to alcohol across all the advice of public health authorities, and it is natural to look at just the narratives that were put forward at the last time when this bill was being discussed, contrary to the advice of scholars and those who are familiar with each other. [[The president calls.]] It surprises people. I'm also surprised, Madam President, that we're discussing this matter another mission at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u90	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. One senator says that she is in effect surprised by the fact that we are discussing this matter here. I can agree with her. Hv. A senator spoke of research and of what other nations of a respected wine culture, as it were, are thinking in this context. The transport workers of this bill count, at least Some, that this very good wine culture is so desirable and will follow an increased bioavailability. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she is not worried about it, does this bill work, that it is based on -- now I'm not going to tell her ignorance but rather that he did not study enough international research in this case. In foreign lands, like what. A senator pointed out that this is done in many ways. Therefore, we have access to research that allows us to compare all these things together. However, transporters do not want to discuss such research and minimize it. I feel that it is important that we try to learn from the experiences of others and not go into such changes, accept the risks, and do things that increase the likelihood of a problem at home. I want to ask you why. A senator if she's not worried about this like me.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u91	Madam President. Of course I'm worried about this. We were here earlier today to discuss the situation and the financial problems of nursing homes. Then it stood up from every reason. The senator after the other, that we would need a long - term plan, for it was clear that the cost of this component of health care would be increased by the growing elderly, of course, who we welcome. Across Europe there are demographic reasons why health care costs are increasing. At the same time, people have become increasingly aware of the need to promote powerful public health policies, not just to reduce costs, but also to promote human health. Current level. The government set up a special Ministry Committee on Public Health. People who know about this category know that national health is a matter of running public policies that take into account public health in all areas. People in general are not merely trying to promote health benefits. Supporters of this suggestion often refer to a precautionary approach to reduce alcohol consumption. In a sense, prevention is very important, but all the tests will not be overlooked. A senator mentioned in his counterargument that shows that access is, however, the most important factor in affecting alcohol consumption. I mentioned the health consequences of alcohol abuse, such as cirrhosis. For the health of overindulging people, we can give us dramatic consequences. We know that this bill, if it's approved, will increase alcohol consumption. We do not really see exactly where people are heading to meet them and whether they are above the top of a desirable trend. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u92	Madam President. Hv. A senator notes that increasing bioavailability will increase the consumption rate. We allow ourselves to say this because many research shows it. However, this sentence appears on page 18. 12 In an explanation of the bill, with the permission of the president: It has not been demonstrated that there is a definitive causal relationship between increased bioavailability and increased consumption. It's just in an explanation. Although we can refer to studies that are old and new in this regard, when considering the effects of consumption, these transporters question some permanent causal relationship. It is said of preemptiveism, and we have had good results in preventing youths from drinking. However, there are countries where alcohol is sold in grocery stores that have been less successful. So I want to ask you why. A senator who is a former minister of education who knows the recent research, whether or not she is concerned about it, will be law-enforced by this bill, taking the risk of overemphasicing the success we have achieved in Iceland, and it has been seen when it comes to a lower level of juvenile drinking. It's not just Denmark, it's in other countries where this problem is when shopping alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u93	Madam President. Of course, the success that was achieved at the time in reducing teen drinking is very joyful and was actually a result of the concerted efforts of parents, schools, and governments in changing the normal standards for adolescent behavior. It's a great success, but there's a little other law on the subject of children's affairs where society can have a lot of control tools in the way it is bringing up children - they're part of a community project, not a personal parent - and then in the public health of adults. That's the first thing I want to say. I don't think it's totally equal. We could imagine if we senators were put in it, for example. At our place of employment, listening obligatoryly to prevention, as children in elementary schools regularly do - I wonder if I would see the full attendance of senators on such front lectures if we went to those rhythms. I'd kill one of the carriers of this bill, huh? paritaprevir Beggar the Brynjar of Níelsson said a word with a strange man. A senator earlier said that he did not necessarily want to overhear his research; he just wanted to assess reality as if he could see it. Research is exactly what we senators have to look to. Hv. In answer to the question of the question, a senator found himself familiar. A senator that we could not make decisions on this matter based on our reality. I've got my story to tell in it like I'm sure everyone else has. Elders when it comes to the use and consumption of others and how they have affected our existence. We'll have to examine the evidence and the research as well. When it comes to the fact that a permanent relationship has not been established, I just say, " Define permanently. " We're talking years and decades of research back into the past. I can't say that it was this way from Christ's birth if that's what's meant by permanentness, but I think that's what people are putting in that word very much. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u94	President. I want it to be first of all that I feel that it is necessary for this matter to be treated as all other members of Congress, but it may not be necessary for all other members of Congress to be treated. So I would like to challenge the president that if this case is treated as it seems, the same is true of other members of Congress, not just this matter that has taken up a lot of time at the council. So I will not have a very long talk, even if I am making the first comment at this assembly. In view of these, I think it's worth reading a doctor's note to the general general who came to us yesterday, by Svanur Sigurbjörnsson, a doctor and a medical specialist in medicine and clinical toxicology. I'm going to wind up reading this memo, with the permission of a president: Are you going to change the alcohol laws? Political decision. A doctor's memo for the Generals for a bill on making room for shops with alcohol. In a well - thought - out political decision, three aspects are involved in the decision: What is the knowledge factor? What should be our appreciation for the will (the people's will)? What fundamental moral law is considered when considering the matter? According to a number of studies, the knowledge factor is as follows: An increase in alcohol consumption means an overall increase in alcohol consumption. After the beer was allowed in 1989 and bars opened in many places as well as increased wine consumption, alcohol consumption took from 4.3 liters per population in 1980 to 7.5 liters per population in 2007. Research shows that privatization of sales continues to increase drug consumption. This means that drinking a day will increase the number of people with alcohol dependence (alcohol) and a number of alcoholics with chronic health problems such as: Cirrhosis, often leads to death. Needs a liver transplant. It was rarely seen in the years of the ban (prior to 1989) that was unique in the world. The incidence has been increased from 9.9 to 41.7 cases annually (per 300 you. from the late '90's to 2007. Brain atrophy, cognitive impairment and memory impairment. Neuromuscular damage, falls, fractures, disability Chronic psychiatric disorders. Alcohol-related cancer (in the mouth, throat, oesophagus, trachea, liver, colon, breast and pancreas). Pancreatitis (both acute and chronic). Alcohol, the most common cause). Is the number of days of illness from work and the number of people in disability, the number of broken families, the failure of children, the number of those who get involved in other drugs, the number of LSH emergency users due to acute alcohol poisoning, the number of cases where alcohol is part of suicide? (for approximately 50% of cases), number of accidents and accidents (other than driving). Possessions. Increase the number of episodes of alcohol while driving. Increase in number of alcohol - related accidents Distinction and death. Possessions. More alcoholics fall into abstinence and no less breaks? Increased violence in society. Family violence, especially sexual and spiritual violence. Unfounded attacks on road users (a major problem in downtown Reykjavík, where wine - management facilities are most). Sexual violence. Increased spread of sexually transmitted diseases, especially among young people. Teratogenicity and increased number of early births. The collective effects of everything above lead to large government costs (health care system) and increased pressures on emergency services, social services, law enforcement, and social systems. Increasing teenage drinks? The private sector would likely advertise the more and more beautiful alcohol. Probably less special and inferior whole - time service as a result of drinking. Good educational work and the NTVR proactive activities were lost. Potentially less product selection of other products in 24-foldy stores with limited product sizes. A better access to alcohol in the capital area and the largest towns, but not necessarily in the region where small camps would not carry themselves. Instead of using the government in the medical system, private people would gain much money from the liquor business. Dose increases in percentage of prevention sites increased. All kinds of effects on business, see a paper with a bill. That's where we come to the will show. ▪ How should the people's will be appreciated? First to find out who he is. Take a look at the polls. Have a national bill on the matter that would be a consultant for the Council. Have a well-prepared national meeting, e.g. According to Fish's model Fiskinsa few days of council). Make sure what to do with the will. It may not be that he reflects an informed decision, especially if a discussion of the advice of a national action would be small and ill - prepared, or if an informal survey was to be done without reasoning ahead. If a share of knowledge shows that significant value could be damaged by the evacuation of alcohol laws, more may not be desired in the name of increased autonomy. On the other hand, a nation should have the freedom to choose for itself even if they are in danger. It is important that reasoning process be enjoyed by votes; otherwise, it is difficult to reconcile with the public willingness that places health risks in order to increase the freedom of those who drink alcohol and the shopping rights of merchants. Finally, it is the moral element, the principle. The freedom of an individual. Is it human right to be free from the government's interference with selling alcohol? Is the State reducing abnormally negative freedom (freedom)? Shopping freedom. More freedom to shop for alcohol, but possibly reduced the standards of other products in small stores (the best sells). Children's Protection - What Does It Tell Children About the Nature of Alcohol That It Is in Every Grocery? Protection of alcoholics. By having decided to maintain a negative freedom (in the present form) the positive freedom, i.e. Their dominion over their own doings, and their prosperity. Social messages about alcohol to everyone - increase the level of normal Pharisees'drinking. What do you decide? My conclusion is clear: Alcohol laws are not to be evacuated. The discomfort of some because of reduced shopping rights in the present system is acceptable given the large negative effects resulting from increased alcohol consumption. A reduction in this external/negative freedom gives a lot of people more inner/positive freedoms over their lives and health. Alcohol is not food, and moderate amounts of alcohol are difficult. The Kingdom has a great opportunity to affect the health of the people. We do not need to bring about any further health problems with increased shopping freedom, which is not a urgent change. Drinking and selling alcohol calls for a balanced balance of freedom and caution that is present and cannot be disturbed. That's what Svanur Sigurbjörnsson writes. Have I then finished reading his memo that I find interesting, and I more strongly encourage the members of the council that they are very familiar with the reviews that came to the General Commission. I find it shocking to find that the reviews that come from those who are very familiar with this class of health - whether spiritual or physical - all of them in one way. I must say that I have seen the serious damage alcohol or alcoholism can cause to families. It's not really possible to put it in statistics. What children and spouses often go through is so devastating, and the breakdown is so devastating that it may take a lifetime to eliminate them. I can't tell you whether there will be an increase in alcohol consumption or not until you try it, but I have to say that the information available on how these things develop in other countries must be a lot of thought to your mind. Then I'd like to say, too, that I've lived in many parts of the world and in other places. in Denmark, where we apply ourselves. I've often called Dani or their community a little bit like it's bruised in alcohol because it has so much alcohol in it. Now I haven't lived in Copenhagen, but I lived in several places in the country. It saw that the beer box was always caught, whether it was small or large, having beer, and having Gammel Dank was always getting married to the routine. I have to say, people get very uncomfortable when they've been drinking a lot of Tuborgs, though their drinking rate is not high. I have also noticed and noticed in Denmark and elsewhere that since alcohol is found in grocery stores like there, and natural everywhere, there's a very good access to alcohol in Denmark, the product selection was pathetic, totally miserable. We have to face the fact that alcohol is already very good in Iceland. There's a lot of limitations in this bill about opening time, and I don't see that it's gonna matter much if it becomes legal. I would have wanted, if authorized to sell alcohol at grocery stores, that it would not be at the cost of the TVR simply because ATVR is always promoting its service in the country. This has been the case, so when communities are being combined or integrated, much of the basic services from the smallest settlements go into one nucleus. You don't have to go beyond the pagans just to see it through, for example. What happened when Stockholm and the island tray joined Selephoss. In many ways, I feel that this case is unthinked and rewards a little work, so it is not thought long - term. So I won't support it unless I do what. A senator who made that request will only start drinking himself. But for the fun of it all, I don't think I can see why the case will lead to a vote here at the General Assembly. I don't think it's a good idea that the case ends all the way, but the democratic will in the Council needs to be done. I think it's important. I can't disagree with myself, and even if I don't agree with a matter, I don't want to interfere with their material and final treatment at a church Hall. According to this, if this becomes the case, I ask that other matters with equal weight, as this will have an enormous social impact, receive proper treatment for the council. I don't feel that we can complete this case until we receive a clear report from the President of the Parliament that this is the case with all members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u95	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Today we've been talking about the business and competition issues of this bill. There have been talk of teen drinking and the effect of increased consumption on health and wine culture, but the talks I have been able to relate little to the effects of domestic violence and sexual violence and what will happen within the walls. We know that domestic violence thrives within the home, and we know that there is more than alcohol involved, its abuse. I want to pray. A senator with me wondering whether there is a contradiction in this regard, but in this respect we have talked about problems related to domestic violence. We've been trying to eliminate sexual violence, we've talked about law enforcement, she doesn't have time to handle these matters, and it has to change and strengthen them to intervene earlier when children are in the home, and they've seen that their mothers are being subjected to violence and lasting harm. Counts 'em out. A senator does not think that we need to draw that view into this discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u96	President. Absolutely. I find it very important that this discussion also discusses alcohol and alcohol. Alcohol is drugs. It belongs to the amine class at the time of potency and effect. Therefore, I want members of Congress to wonder if they would be willing to sell memine for sale in the pharmacy, for example. Why can't you sell pot cakes and ecstasy under careful control of quality requirements, etc.? I don't see a lot of difference there, except that alcohol is socially accepted as a drug. In other lands, for example, cannabis is accepted as the social drug. It seems to me that the effect alcohol has on many people often breaks down in the loss of self - control, whether in the word or with the fist. I know a lot about this time. I spent a very long time in an organization for alcoholics, and I had the privilege of holding my arms around a recent meeting and what I witnessed about alcohol, I will never forget those stories. I will never be able to live by promoting the violence the people I received guidance went through. It had a profound effect on the long - term members.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u97	Madam President. You see, there's so much hanging around when it comes to this bill. I feel that it is too easy to talk about. There are health problems, such as what happened. A senator thoroughly studied his talk, then there are social problems and harmful effects on children, their spiritual health, their parents'consumption, and their family members. Hv. A senator spoke of the importance of the bill being treated for Congress and pointed out that governments could examine the minds of the public in this regard. My impression is that the public does not call for this change. I think the public is quite content with access to alcohol. We know the problems, and all research supports the law of the problem. I want to ask you why. A senator, of course. A senator mentioned a principle of national law, whether it does not consider sufficient evidence of recent research and shows that the public does not call for this change in public will.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u98	President. I'd like to have the discussion of the national budget in my speech was a direct reading from the doctor's memo fine. I don't personally feel the need for a national bill on this matter, for it has repeatedly been shown what the nation's will is in significant surveys. I think that every time you have any issues that burn on the people, it's very clear, and I agree with the senator, I haven't felt much demands on this increased service. I'd cut it off for one or two. A senator earlier noted that if we were concerned about our health, we should view diet and obesity. I have not met anyone who has lost control of his temper in that he regularly harms other people because he eats hamburgers. On the other hand, people, especially those with alcoholism, often lose self - control. It's very hidden. It's just that way. This is a very hidden disease, often for many years, where the family suffers greatly. All of this is to hide the situation at home. Everyone who has worked with this disease knows it. This is not just about the right to have access to alcohol. This, for example, is about the right of children and marriage mates to enjoy some kind of security. I'm worried that sooner people who are falling apart, and we won't be able to live up to what lies ahead because our health system is involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u99	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Both the fine letters that the doctor, Svanur Sigurbjörnsson, sent us were needed to quote, and I was equally impressed by some of them. A senator reported on his encounter with alcohol's ills. I wanted to continue the discussion of the freedom that has been discussed here. A senator wrote a little about and, in fact, is also quoted in his letter; freedom from everyone; and what to do. I'll be able to think more and more about the use of the freedom concept in this discussion, and people sometimes talk about freedom and that something is free, as if amazing things have their own will. They say, " Free to open business." Wait, does the store have a will of its own? Does the store want to be open 24 hours a day? No, it's not like that. It is the owner of the store who benefits from that store. It makes me feel closer to the point here. For what benefit, then, is this area of freedom, the freedom that humans are talking about? After any social freedom in Iceland, do we have to implement this arrangement for a little selling on alcohol that we do? No, I don't think so. Of course, there is primarily one person whose freedom is truly taken away, those whom alcoholism robs of freedom and those who live in it. If we want to approach this issue based on securing some freedoms that certainly do not have it today with alcohol, they are those who are downplaying it and their addiction to it and their spouses, their children, and their spouses. That one thing led me to be completely against everything I had conviction that would rather be worse in that regard. [[The president calls.]] I don't need more complicated reasoning, but there are, of course, plenty more.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u100	President. That's a good point. Of course, it is primarily one company that will benefit from the bill. There's nothing to overlook. I feel like we can't change society, this will have a lot of effect, no matter what people say. We cannot be guided by the interests of one company when it comes to accepting laws at the Council. I have to say and write that my experience of working with people who have been on the side of my own is that I feel too tight to support this. No one has come up with convincing evidence that things will be different in Iceland than in any other country. Why on earth? We've got a terrible liquor drive here in Iceland. He sucks. It's only improved, and to some extent, because beer is available. But alcohol consumption has increased. Those who become bad with wine do not get better at the better availability. That's the fact. Those who become evil with wine will not be better with an increased access to alcohol 24 hours a day, except that I am concerned about the law - enforcement process. Personally, I feel a little extreme because I never have alcohol around my children. Just because I've seen its damage is not an option for a law degree.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u101	Madam President. For the last thing, I completely agree with you. The senator's advice is addressed to the letter of the physician. This is an act that may be overlooked. Of course, it is difficult to measure. This has become part of the mental field, which is a tiny turn to cope with research and so forth. But the attitude in these matters really works. One thing that led the person here to vote against allowing alcoholic beer was that in my mind it was no way to overlook the fact that it would affect the attitude, it would remember to a degree of the law of alcohol. The evidence was that this was such a weak type of alcohol, was relatively damaging, and was of little importance to them. Some were moved to point out that it was alcohol in the form that people might be able to associate with different types of beverages, keep in the refrigerator, etc., and that would affect the attitude of children and young people, and all of which I think have been true. Then they look for something balanced. They say it improved the drinking. Yes, to some extent, the consumption of this alcohol did not become a complete addition to the already existing things, which, of course, did not become entirely complete, but in part. Even if we agreed on that, and that was at one time, knowing that sooner or later alcoholic beer would come, it matter how it was introduced. It is also important to have a device in your hands, as I would think. I'm asking why. For example, a member of the body of these substances, such as the attempts of alcohol plants and alcohol dealers to mark products, prepare them, put them on such a form that it especially refers to young consumers. TVR has resisted, attempted escape, and is therefore careful not to take in sales in its strong gel, or whatever it is that is now thought of as producing, strong imitations of fruit or sodas and stuff like that. [[The president calls.]] We need all of this more in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u102	President. I'd like to know, too. For example, cannabis is now being legalized in many parts of the world. How would those who put the bill into practice that there was a special department at a grocery store where they could buy different types of marijuana, in gel and cake and pipes, and for free and all of this? It's only in some way that if you look at the statistics, those who smoke grass will not be as violent as those who drink alcohol. I think that this matter is being lenient to the interests of large parties. This is not the case with the nation's total interest, that's just the way it is. The people are not calling for this. We just need to take a closer look at these things. We need to go deeper in studying the negative effects of drinking in homes, for example. There have been studies that are very serious. We are not talking about food, we are talking about drugs, addictive drugs for many who suffer from a disease called alcoholism. I think we need to take this case seriously. I challenge the prime speaker to do so with a really open mind. Because I'm convinced that the best man will be there. A senator has seen things in his work that he does not miss from memory.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u103	Madam President. In many ways there have been interesting discussions on this subject today, but they were due to be much more important to me, and in particular, I would be interested in hearing more of the supporters, or merchants, of this case an attempt to back up the material advantages of the subject. Of course, it would be even better if we were to see people on the subject on such issues as critical viewpoints as those outlined earlier in speech and speech. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir read a letter from Dr. Sigurbjörnsson Sigfjörnsson and a medical specialist and clinical toxicology. I have to say, just as it is, I'd like to hear some of the people in this case crossing this point for a team and try to answer. Is it really not that we must do something that many of us have been able to mention before me when we face such a case with an immensely social, social, and human ill will, and we get the appeal and firm stand of all the professions involved? Across the line is so that sociologists, health professionals, social workers, precorruption, and so forth, challenge the Council not to do this and give strong evidence. Our specialist institutions, who have laws according to the role of giving us advice, provide us with counselling in this field, shape policy, take care of things like public health and health, we know where they stand, etc. This has been the tendency to try to divide it a little into two contrasts. I'm not going to make opinions on that subject, but often it seems that there is an attempt to resolve warnings in this relationship as some sort of old - fashioned attitude. But then I ask, " What is so new about pushing aside the reasoning of public health and health? ' What is so novelty about not being unduly influenced by all the evils associated with alcohol abuse? Is it new? I would've thought it was the other way around. In general, I thought that public health and understanding of the importance of healthy living and healthy family life were just that way, and we would have made some progress in making the views higher than those of the opposite sex. At least I'm very proud of my convictions in this matter, and I think it's a completely novel attitude, and I'm not gonna apologize for it. Although trying to do something else and putting some old - fashioned cliché or label on that position, I slip a little further away. I'd just like to mention that here was a statement, of course. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, who may have left, why couldn't we take as good an example the drug - dealing arrangement, that would be fine, the state would have nothing to shop for. But is it a good comparison to take alcohol and treat it like any other product and to place it in the general markets in the country? We don't do it with the drugs. Not at all. I think that's the big misunderstanding. These medicines are subject to strict monitoring. You need a special prescription, and there are professionals with expertise in the category that is responsible for having everything under law and regulations, which is a serious matter of prescribing and dispensing drugs. This requires medical access to prescription medicines and professionals to provide them. We're not talking about it here. The bill doesn't work out. I count the comparison completely out in the field. Then, for example, I would have wanted to have the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. A health minister would have come here to discuss with us what lies ahead for the nation's health issues. We all know that group of paintings is very readable. We know that the cost will increase in the years to come. And we know that the increase in alcohol consumption is an enormously expensive one and is added to it as an additional problem, for when there is a great supply of health care. I'll ask: Don't we have something closer to us than to take the risk that by such miscommunications, we still weigh our propaganda on dealing with public health and health problems in the coming years and decades? [[The president calls.]] I don't feel that it can be eliminated from their general situation. This is what leads to a very strong chance of going to happen; increased consumption; increased problems; increased cost. [[The president calls.]] So, then, do not people have to answer how they will deal with it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u104	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's claim to a good speech, as it is hoped and referred to. He went over the difference between selling prescriptions and selling alcohol at grocery stores. The report on the bill says that in the political debate, it is generally not thought that the government should represent business management, but it may be appropriate if it is in areas where private workers do not see benefit. This is certainly not true of liquor sales, is it not so true that private people will be able to see their best interests in it? We know that. There is a great interest in this in some people who run a grocery store. I wanted to ask you what. A senator: Is this in his mind that the State should fire this because he as a left - handed politician has faith in government? Or is there any other reason why he feels that selling alcohol is the best source for the State's monopoly?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u105	Madam President. I pause at various statements and such phrases in the bill's report, and this is a single sentence. It's just a saying, a truth that doesn't have to be talked about, that it's a general view that the State shouldn't be involved in business. Thus, there is no need to argue further, that's just a general view. Yeah, well, for one thing, there aren't many of its spokesmen, I think, especially that the state is a public trader. I don't think that's a problem either. For example, this might well be a good solution to commercial problems in the country that the State simply comes to secure shops in a number of communities where it is under attack. Why should the inhabitants have to face up to great difficulties, even in settlements, just to make sure that they have a store? You might want to do this on a social basis or as part of a government. But I'm not an idealist in the way that I think the State is to go into business in general. But I'm not going to write down sleeping on the approach I feel here a little close to the fact that the State's place in society should be nothing more than what no one else wants to do. Of course, it is a dream country, the career of the Promised Land of capitalism, that private people will take care of everything they can make money, but the state will remain with the rest, as little a kingdom as possible. Of course, they want to move out of the border, enter the welfare services, and even enter sensitive areas, such as those that humans have simply organized on a completely different basis than the fact that this is about whether the State or the private people should have such a trade. It's a health policy. This is a public health policy. The reason why I want to defend the current arrangement is that it is the most reliable setting for me to carry out the conservative alcoholism and the only thing we really can rely on because we have it in our hands and it's the battle line that will fall by taking it out to the stores and then losing the grip on evolution that can go much further. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] One by one, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The elder's answer is heartfelt agreeing with him. It is not that the Kingdom should care for what others do not want to do. Among other things, the Kingdom has an important role in protecting the interests of the common people. In Iceland, as well as in other parts of the North countries, there is a long history of baptism at a liquor store. I don't know what the arrangement would be today, but I don't think if alcohol were coming into existence today, it would hardly be a subject of mental change, at least not according to current drug policy in the country. Of course, children are being protected and protected. There are several factors that are affected by the inhibition of bioavailability. I ask the senator: What would it have to do with society's having this, not just the result of society, but what financial interests are at stake? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u107	Yes, Madam President, I agree. How close it is to consult a discussion of the State's role in these matters in a way that is appropriate! A senator did, I can agree. The Kingdom has a very important role in promoting positive aspects of society and human life that we agree on, such as health and wholesome life - styles, such as general happiness as what we can hope for with the right motivation and right support, the right setting of things in our society, the people in general are happy and happy. Special attention should be given to groups, e.g. Children who are vulnerable to danger. And aren't we doing it all over the place? Are we not trying to do so by various measures, legislation, and regulations? I think it's all in the same spirit that we're thinking about children, our families. Of course, regarding the effects on income, it is clear to the extent that we agree to allow the sale of this product to be expensive; it should not be cheap to get this drug. [[The president calls.]] It is the easiest thing to try to distribute it in an efficient way by one person and to ensure that all the income, or most of it, will end up in the government's pockets, which are located at the expense of the problems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u108	A respectable president. I don't expect me to or what. The senator will agree on this bill during this discussion, and it is good and blessed in itself. On the other hand, I find a very interesting and very interesting bill of course. A senator has submitted a 62th case, which contains one of the changes made in the bill itself and in the proportion of alcohol charge that flows to public health. This is the part of the bill that its supporters have often pointed out, saying that this is certainly being done with the public health relationship. What I can't quite figure out, and hope to do. A senator can tell me about his vision of it, is why not all the alcohol money is used in a public health fund or some similar project or whatever one, why it is not used to pay for the social problems of alcohol, which are various and certainly expensive, not just in money. The reason why I ask this is that this is often the kind of reasoning I personally hate that the consequences of alcohol consumption cost so much money, the cost of maintaining the health system as a result. I always think that's a very bad reason for controlling the behavior of the public in the country in general, to me, that's a bad argument, a connection between government tendencies to govern society and the combination. I'd like to think of it as separate. What I wondered: If alcohol consumption is thought about paying for the damage done by alcohol, why doesn't everything go to that end?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u109	Madam President. I agree that the costs are not all good, I don't use them much. To me, the human factor is much bigger. It is the fate of children and families who suffer from drinking problems, and it is the toleration of failure on the ice to deal with this large - scale drug, which is accompanied by marvelous problems. A team in the fight is not having this product so cheap that it is not too easy to buy in large quantities. Despite many disorders, drinking is very expensive because it can be said that those who have a low income have found it quite difficult to compare with the others, and it is true that this is an expensive product, yet they have come to that conclusion. It is generally recommended that this product be kept very expensive, and this is done by the State paying the price. Certainly, then, the government will earn what it even has to do with it. cope with the consequences of alcohol abuse and especially alcohol abuse. It is, in effect, that while public health is only 1% marked by the alcohol charge, there are 10◯12 billion or whatever alcohol costs are now due if I remember correctly, it is just a drop in the ocean when we look at the health, law enforcement, and other factors at the expense of society. These incomes are there, though, even though they are not exactly earmarked. Economicly, alcohol abuse is one of the most expensive problems each society can face because work, accidents, loss of employment, illness, and other things that might not come directly to the table of the State until later, cause untold damage to other parts of the community, such as in the secular world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u110	A respectable president. It is true that alcohol costs, not only in the form of money, but also in the form of health and, in many cases, happiness and life. Still, it's still in my mind. I'd like to ask you why. A senator with a question that may sound a bit radical or strange, but it's all right that we ask ourselves, " Do I really think it's decent for the state to benefit from a drug trade? ' If I were to sell drugs, it would include a moral question. If the State is going to perform this ministry, I don't think the State should be an escape from that question. Why is it more civilized when the Kingdom is engaged in the ministry? I actually think it's a bit civilized on the grounds that the state is fighting this particular problem. Otherwise, I don't see moral justification for it. Therefore, I do not understand why this charge does not take some form of work related to the consequences of alcohol abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u111	Madam President. I'm glad to hear it. In view of the fact that the matter is also being handled with care and understanding, a member of the body may be looking particularly at what is known about the direct damage caused by the state. An interesting question, is it proper for the government to profit from selling drugs? For one thing, alcohol is a drug that has long been legal, a natural fundamental difference. It has been decided to allow sales of this material, but with great limitations and a part of the limit has been that the government has cared for the sale. We can also add the question: Is it moral, or would it not be more immoral for private people to rejoice in selling drugs? Is it not, then, that it is the Kingdom that is so close to it and lies down with the problem? [[The president calls.]] I think the conclusion of that question must first be that since alcohol is legal on another level and since someone has to take care of the sale, it is better that the state does it itself and takes in the benefits of what someone is doing and uses it to cope with the consequences. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u112	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate my question to the question. A senator from when he gave his first speech, whether he is more concerned about the lack of access to the product, access and selection of alcohol and food prices are raised in the country, or vice versa. And whether in this context he studied the basis of the surgeon general, which shows the latest figures about the nation's alcohol consumption and what seems to have the most impact on the nation. I think it means a lot to me. It is said either that bioavailability and services in the country will be impaired, but the second is to criticize the bill for increasing access to this product, which will then increase consumption. I admit it, the highest. Mr President, I don't completely figure out which of the concerns lies with those who have this case about public health.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u113	Madam President. I'll try to answer it. A senator and I are going to try to answer completely objectively and to cling to the puzzle so as not to lose myself in another way because the question is very short to me. It is simply that in many parts of the country, there is either one or no store in the area. TVR has been based on policies that it has developed to ensure access to this product with certain minimum distances and has set up small payments that are open for one to two hours a day in very small places to achieve these objectives. It has not been designed to increase the overall availability of alcohol, it has been done in order for humans to be closer to sitting at the same table. And in view of this, and when you look at the situation as it has been changing in the past few years, I really doubt that access to this product will improve anything in the country except at a few of the largest places where there are many stores and even worse in many places, small places, in the sense that there will be much less selection and poor service. We're talking about a whole new reality here in the big urban area. Here are hundreds of stores that will start selling alcoholic drinks. Their numbers will multiply, double, obviously, e.g. Right here in this area. There we are talking about an increase in bioavailability which will definitely lead to increased consumption. Perhaps the most important argument is that when we're talking about access, we're talking about that area of the country, the big urban areas, and mostly here in the capital area, where we're going to have a completely different reality in this bioavailability if this bill came forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u114	A respectable president. I don't think it's possible to increase access to alcohol much more here in the capital area, where alcohol stores are moved closer to foundways and made visible in the largest commercial industry and wine - feeding areas. But we will agree that we are concerned about the work being done throughout the country. But I'm more concerned about this general store that sells necessities. Hv. A senator has considered how difficult it can be to run such a trade in order to serve the country. Can't that be a lift? Is it not possible for the senator to imagine as an anchor for commercial products in the country to obtain legal consumers into his business to increase economic benefits and thus increase the potential for land trade? And what is fair about the fact that only 30 rural communities are provided in the country and not all 70?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u115	Madam President. I don't think the list of rural society's numbers says much of this stuff, but there is no particular need for access to the 70 people of Tjöreneshrepp, who live there, that alcohol is not a store in their rural society. Húsavík is short. They need to see how this is in the real world in the unique places. Yes, I can quite accept that. In isolated cases, where a small business is enduring in the community, where there is not an invitation to ATVR service, there may be some strengthening basis for the store to also sell alcohol that comes from someone else in close proximity to community. However, when this is discussed with the officials of many of my stores in the country, they do not want this arrangement. Many of the most well - known trades in the country, several of their representatives, were now called upon by a financial and business committee to discuss this feature specifically, they were furious against the case. They consider the arrangement as good today, and not necessarily to be an advantage in selling alcohol at their stores, if it had come into a general camp, in order to perform that service to their clients. [[The president calls.]] They are more interested in being merchants at the corner with the products they are shopping with today than in going out to lie down with booze. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u116	Madam President. I come up here to my second speech on this matter because, as mentioned in the previous talk, I am very much opposed to the law of this bill. I'm in agreement that Iceland continues to run a debauching alcohol policy. It is clear that the mechanisms to reduce the damage to alcohol for communities are limiting access to and through prices. We have used both of these avenues in Iceland with good results. When it comes to the fact that Icelanders drink a lot, even though we have the State's exclusive on alcohol, it's just not right. A recent OECD study on OECD alcoholism and the problems associated with alcohol consumption shows that Iceland has a 33 - year - old level of alcohol consumption per person, far below the average OECD. Of course, it comes from the course we are running here in this regard. I don't understand why we want to make changes that are known to be damaging to society and causing many health problems. Alcohol causes many types of cancer from the oral cavity, down the gastrointestinal tract, and down the rectum and affects people even if they do not develop cancer. They enjoy health problems involving the liver and the kidneys and such. Much alcohol consumption by parents and guardians has a negative effect on children, and so children could be viewed as harmful effects of alcohol. So, of course, alcohol is not always harmful. Most of us enjoy drinking alcohol. This may also be why we find it harder to accept the problem of drinking alcoholic beverages. Everyone agrees that tobacco is dangerous and bad. There is no patience when people pick up cigarettes in invitations and so forth, but when it comes to alcohol, we have a much higher threshold, a much higher it is, so I quit, with a drink of alcohol. Our knowledge that consideration is to be exercised and that we should try to minimize it has increased, and we have kept watch over our drinking policy. A number of Icelanders have sought help from alcoholism, alcoholism, and their lives have been restored after a serious accident of alcohol abuse, with family life, children, employment, and other factors. Thousands of Icelanders have been released from the disease of alcoholism. It is also a respect for people that they can only go to the grocery store without having to watch alcohol, which makes them more likely to fall into temptation. It is natural in society that we show consideration for one another. It is not a great sacrifice that we would have to make a little extra trip to buy a bottle of red wine or a bottle of vodka, but it really matters to a considerable number of people that wine is not in grocery stores. Madam President. I will protect the government's monopoly at a liquor store and hope that this bill will never be a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u117	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator that the results or measurements of the arrangement we have carried out in these respects strongly suggests that this arrangement has been well prepared. Those who wish to change it should naturally have to have a great deal to prove it to them and to tell others why it should be done, what problem should be solved, what should be done by abandoning this arrangement. The argument that it will only be easier for those who want to get drunk with food or something, for example, is not strong when you see that there is no special dissatisfaction with the arrangement that is today among the common people. The quality of our ministry is very high, and it is relatively comfortable. If so, it is not easier to take into account those with difficulty and pain, their caregivers, their families, their children, etc.? Is it too much to ask that those who are so lucky to be able to get involved with alcohol without the countless problems and success, then live in this arrangement for the goals we feel are accomplished? But I just want to say the state of the discussion of alcohol abuse, for example, tobacco that there has been certain results, and I don't think that after about 15, 20 years, nobody would ever consider moving a bill like that. Why do I say that? Yes, because despite all of this, the discussion of these problems has come to the fore. It's not quite the same hiding soul as it was once. The use of alcohol is no longer used abroad. Barming parties have been eliminated, haven't they? Drinking at work does not result in the same reaction that she may have made on chapters earlier. So I think that in some ways we've been totally on the right track with the discussion about this process developing, it's after the tobacco, I agree, but I would predict that after 15, 20 years, we would have come a long way in these areas that nobody would ever think of presenting such a bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u118	President. I couldn't agree with that. In this discussion, some say: There will come a time when alcohol will be taken out of the State's monopoly. I disagree with that, because I think the attitude toward alcohol consumption is very changing. I think it's important to stay in this arrangement rather than stand here after 10, 20 years and see to it that these changes were shortsighted. A paper with the bill says on page 18. 12 on the effect on consumption that the increase in bioavailability will no doubt temporarily increase alcohol consumption through altered culture, although it is likely that steady state will be attained and consumption will be reduced or equal to it again. A causal relationship between increased bioavailability and increased consumption has not been established. For example, reading this text would be, if it wasn't such a serious matter, funny, because the World Health Organization's Web site does not need to be deep into or talk about the report that came out last year from OECD to read about a very clear causal relationship. Bioavailability is a controlling factor for alcohol consumption in each community. It is very disturbing that the Independence Party, which is here with 19 members of Congress, will make a bill like this, with a report that is as disproportionate as it is built up, into a carrier bill, a matter of Congress at the International Parliament. This is the priority of the Independence Party, where heredity is the main theme of the report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u119	Madam President. I've previously quoted this sentence and believed it to be one of those who are extremely ill-inhabited or reasoned in the bill, actually not a sort of experiment, but rather all the research and facts that have been quoted. I think that the enthusiasm for moving this issue forward and may now be due to some extent because deep down, the candidates were to face up to the fact that they are gradually losing the discussion. It is changing, and public opinion is changing. This has been reduced if I know correctly, for example, in surveys, it is downhill, and to a greater extent, common sense has turned people away from it. I think I find this in conversation with people. I think the causal relationship is a little more complex, but only the bioavailability factor alone, i.e. the bioavailability and the attitude, the normal conception it reflects, the ability to have the bioavailability limited and highly controlled and underscored by the nature of the product. This is part of trying to develop the right attitude and the right attitude toward it. I believe, for example, that our success in tobacco is a factor. It is the meaning and the place of tobacco that more and more people come to realize and appreciate the nature of that product. The discussion is difficult in many lands, where you would have long believed that this is the very opposite of the bill. Let's just take France, where wine culture is now infested with food culture and the way of life. There is a strong debate that French people must take action and take action to control the situation. The same can be said of Britain, where in the last 10, 25 years, people in general acknowledge that the British have made a big mistake in their drinking habits.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-20-64.u120	Madam President. Yeah, I think it really is. The World Health Organization deals a great deal with alcohol or alcoholism, since alcohol consumption is a factor, and I'm obviously talking about excessive drinking, one of the greatest health problems of the day. It's not something that I, a middle-aged woman, stand here and I'm so crazy and jerk off about being stupid. It's just a serious matter. The World Health Organization makes special mention of responsibility, access, and prices to anyone involved in these matters. Besides, I completely agree that of course it matters. Now it is, and it can be said that the availability of alcohol has greatly increased in Iceland. We have a lot more restaurants and bars and more sales places at ATVR, but at the same time, attitudes have also been changing. However, OECD reports that alcohol consumption is increasing in Iceland. It's just so much, much smaller than in a lot of other control countries. Of course, our goal should be to reduce alcohol consumption, but it should not increase. I also find it in young people today that they will later start drinking, and they still have a different view of alcohol, even though they may be growing up as generations before they are interested in alcohol.
