ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u1	A respectable president. She woke up worried about me, the story this morning about a fugitive or a fugitive who threatened to set fire to himself last night. Icelandic society is not accustomed to such threats, and we certainly do not want to live with refugees or fugitives who are here to await their release for two or five years. That's not acceptable. As we have heard in recent months, the tide of refugees is a great problem. Sweden and Dan have closed their borders to limit the arrival of refugees and to monitor who come to the country. Austria and the Balkans have found especially due to Schengen's problems, but Greece is wide open and there refugees are streaming in as never before and on their way into the Schengen countries. A respectable president. Do we have to follow Sólda and Dana's advice and limit people's access to the country as before the Schengen community service became realized? It is important that we consider whether it is necessary at this time for refugees or refugees to return to Chefavík and send them back to their homes. In fact, I know how difficult it is to participate in this discussion, the good people, and the media will tear you apart if you dare to open your mouth and have an opinion. The people of the country are afraid to have a public opinion of these matters, but I think it's important that we discuss them here in this hall if we don't need to change the country's borders, as we have discussed here, of course. But I think it's time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u2	Mr. President. I'm going to make health care a subject of government impotence. How sad it is to know that the health - care minister is heading for further personalization! I cannot help but agree with the BSRB government that health and health will never be like market goods, so I cannot agree with health ministers's plans for the personalisation of health clinics he's making right here. The number of people in the capital area has increased by 20 thousand over the past decade, but the health - care system has not increased in the same way. Despite hard - to - date declarations that no more money has been offered to the health of the capital area, from 9% to more money to gambling than in 2008, in spite of population growth. I discussed the last week's mental - health issues of children and young people who may have to wait up to one and a half years before a service, which we must agree is completely unacceptable. Ólafur Guðmundsson, chairman of Iceland's Children's Psychiatric Association, says it is a small purpose to have an effort to make a waiting list, we have to attack the root of the problem. The latest news is that new mothers and those suffering from depression need to be in an old, windowless, molded pharmacy with their newborn babies. And then, of course, I'm asking, "What about the hospital, dear health minister? So where's the place after the privatization screwed up? It has been said that the country's agreement is that the government operates health care on the land. I don't give a lot of attention to health - care ideologies that privatization will increase efficiency and economy, as experience in many other countries has shown the opposite and a host of studies of different medical procedures show that public health and health care are contributing to public health. It is good to increase the number of clinics in the capital area, but it is done with public funds. The banks return billions of dollars. The owner of the fishing road pays for billions of dollars. Only HB Granda owners pay $3 billion for money while the government receives $1 billion for the resource. [[The president calls.]] There's plenty of money in this country. It matters who is in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u3	A respectable president. Like others, I enjoy health care for these days, as well as for at least 82 thousand other Icelanders. Iceland has now dropped its EHCI list, the European Health Consumer Index, over Europe's health systems. Iceland has fallen from third place on this list, which was between 2009 and 2012, to the eighth in 2015. During 2009 and 2012, researchers focused on measuring how the European countries met specific risk factors for the economic crisis. In particular, the risk of increasing post-operative waiting period, tendency to increase patient costs and the risk of decreasing availability of new drugs was considered to be increased. In 2009, a year after the collapse, Iceland passed this test with fineness and again four years later. But now, eight years later, under the attention of the Frustration and Independence Party, all the granaries that the previous government managed to cut off in a crisis situation now rise high from the sea, and the government attacks most of them. No longer have post-operative waiting lists been available, patients' expense departments have not been extended, and access to new medications thus reduced by at least last year was the patient's choice of delinquency. Personalization programs are the only vision available. Now that the good news is being received, thanks to the Council of the former government, now that government's management business is in the state, Iceland does not get into a case of health care, but will fall down five places in all the major trials of the crisis of the former government. [[The president calls.]] It shows black on white that it matters who's in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u4	A respectable president. V.E.G. Kristján Þór Julietsson's health Júlíusson introduced the weekend very ambitious health care improvements, their primary goal is to improve patient service, and I am delighted to do so. There is an increase in patient selection and demand for better service. We want to become more competitive with other countries, not just in paying, but in the work environment. There will be no change in health care projects as defined in the Law. As we have seen, I believe we must do even better than we already have been done by this government, which is still quite remarkable to restore the health system in this country. What a plan. A health minister is certainly an important step in the right direction. The reason is that because of decades of lack of money and surgery, the situation is far worse than I had realized and a clear national interest in what appeared in the signing Kári the country's Stefánsson that we restore the health system and put it first on the government list when it comes to financing. But back to the health care reforms at the highest level. A health minister has been introduced. These include the fact that money for clinics is independent of business and property, but it depends on how the health - care team serves together. This is very sensible. At that time, health - care centers will be increasing so that they can better care for their vital role in being one of the basics of the medical system. Also, it is wise to know that the profit that comes from such a operation, if it is personal, will run to strengthen the functioning of the clinics and to improve the patient's service and environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u5	V.E.G. President. These days, we hear reports of the huge profits made by the three business banks. Together, they made 80 billion dollars each year, and they make their three profits from a collapse of 370 billion. This profit comes at the same time that these same business banks have been adding services and, in many cases, raising the existing services. Among these are credit rates, ATM fees, bank services, payment fees, credit fees, credit cards, and this is how you can continue to count. These payoffs are about 30 and a half. paritaprevir Karl Gardarsson is well aware of them in an assignment on the island. His entry also shows that people have been terrified and have had enough. When it comes to these aspects of the banking system, we cannot help but take his words to heart. We need to create a new and honest banking system. Mr. President. We need to separate between investment and business banks here. This is where insurance will be cut off and the growth environment that we live in will be treated with. In this context, it may also be helpful to think deeply about ideas. paritaprevir Frosti, Siglejo, son of Sigurjónsson, about a change in money system. While this work is being done, those in charge of these financial institutions have to show honor in allowing the consumers of the country to feel the tremendous profits they have gained from financial institutions. They should be able to do so by recalling the increases in services or by reducing the number of services paid for and growing. It could be an enormously improved home for the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u6	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss a situation that is drawn up here in the national settlement along with positive social talk. There has been a dramatic increase in financial resources, and the debt of the people of the land has been reduced. At the same time, there is some very positive news that can be read from social data published by the Habitat and can be found on the welfare services; important databases, information on well - being, health and needs; data for improved policy and community action where the need is most urgent. Much of this can be read and, among other things, the very positive development that young ones are now spending more time with their parents and the more involved in organized sports and leisure activities. It is the best preemptive work, a respectable president, and should be taken into account that and the clues of this material can also be found in the memory of alcohol and alcohol abuse. It is important that we defend the important volunteer work being done in the field of youth, youth, and sports partners. This is a development that we should all be able to defend and support further. This balance is desirable, not only from social but also from economic viewpoints. Hence, the very important news that we read from these Economics is that it is indeed increasing and is more pronounced. As a result, commitment correction, specialisation measures, mild tax reductions, disintegration of goods and tolls, collective agreements and prices along with other social and economic measures have helped to increase the level of purchase, increase the equation, increase the level of well-being. Now there's news that we're going to sail into a school run, and that's a project that we've often messed up. Therefore, if we are to succeed in maintaining the same course, looking at balance, buying power, stability, and molding the welfare society in which we want to live, we will be tested. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u7	Mr. President. Government officials have tried to protect money for the health system and for their own privatization plans. Hv. paritaprevir Elín Hirst has been seen in the media and has spoken of the landspite's looking worse on the inside than a hospital in India whom she visited in November. It's after what's happened. A senator believed that the government was doing enough on health matters but has come to a different conclusion. I'd like to hear some attitude. A senator's concern is whether she believes that men have drawn their feet to collect money at the source of money, i.e. by taxation. They've given up a fortune tax, an energy tax, take off hunting fees, etc. I'm asking if she thinks they made a mistake there. Hv. For one thing, a senator says that there is a need for agreement on where to take money in health care. Counts 'em out. A senator did not say that it is a clear message when more than 88,000 Icelanders have written that they want to place more money in the health system? Is it not, then, that the tax from the public and from where the money comes from; that those who have more money should pay according to their ability? Moreover, the reason is indicated. A senator says that priorities can be delayed, such as by postponing a tunnel, and buying a new war planet can be delayed. Counts 'em out. A member of the U.S. government is really required to pay for the failure of the current health government, not to finance the health system as it should, that transport improvements should be taken, such as in Western Europe, where people have waited for decades for better transportation, and in Western islands, which are used not only for transport to get through but for health safety? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir is eager to direct these questions to me. I am both kind and obliged to answer them. As she mentioned, it is my conclusion, especially in view of the fact that politicians are not blind, but they are to be in good contact with their people, that over 80,000 people have written a plea to the government to restore the health system and these voices are to listen, of course. I know from my own experience that there is not enough work to be done in the medical system, even though we have given much encouragement since this government began. But we have to agree to disagree, I don't think raising taxes is the way to manage things. I'd rather have priorities in the state of state. The wealth is not a bottomless pit. Rather, we want to make more debt than the word "need greater than " means an increase of some 80 billion each year, which would be good for use in the health - care system. The first item on the program is to pay off debt so that we can use the interest to build up the welfare system. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned Alflf and a tunnel, but I now referred to it as just an example. I was primarily calling for a broad agreement between us politicians and the people of all nations regarding where this money came from so that we would not destroy these good promises by not being able to get along with how to finance the restoration. For example, I would like to remind you that a few days ago the news showed that because of a very good business, civilisation will bring billions of profits to its owners in the coming years. [[The president calls.]] For example, it might be funded for building up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u9	V.E.G. President. It was a pleasure to be able to present at noon to the highest level. The social and housing minister of the Commission's report on a review of the social security laws called St Peter's Committee, named after Pétur's vow Blöndalur, the great gentleman who was long in charge of this committee. Many have come to this work. The committee's cooperation was well - off, though, in the final record. However, it is clear that the results of this report offer the greatest changes ever made to the national security system in Iceland for decades if necessary. The changes turn to the simple social security system, flexible retirements, and the uptake of the energy assessment instead of the microenergy assessment. Although most of the suggestions in this report are very good, much remains to be done. There is yet no lack of adequate identification of the problems of individual groups within these large groups, the elderly, and the desperate. These groups cannot be spoken of as one foot forward because their position differs greatly. It is now our work in the following report to do even more research on the situation of the worst in these groups and to take advantage of them for a better standard of living. There is no doubt that you can be happy that the report has finally arrived. I really hope that in the future, a prime minister will fulfill what is stated here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u10	A respectable president. The Russian embellishment debate with the Icelanders raised a loud foreign - language discussion here. It was a routine, and sometimes it was that our participation in the commercial affairs of Western countries against Russia is unnecessary. We need an increasing general debate on foreign affairs and particularly defense and security issues so that we can better grasp the context of the parts, that there is a common understanding between the public and the politicians. I believe, for example, that there is a need for more discussions about NATO, since I could best believe that a lot of Icelanders, perhaps in the younger age groups, do not know what NATO stands for and why we are involved in that defense group. As an armyless nation, we are peace lovers, and we will remain that way. So why don't we just give up all our defence? Is not NTO some out - of - date, unnecessary, cold - war phenomenon? No, it isn't. In fact, the security environment in Europe has changed completely from that once existing time when the Atlantic Community was established in 1949. But their goals are the same, i.e. To ensure safety and peace in the continent. In addition to the protective and safety element, NATO plays a key role as a political alliance of 28 democratic states on both sides of the Atlantic. And NATO has multiple partnerships with state and state law outside NATO, e.g. An alliance of African nations. The main focus of Iceland's policy in security and defense is Iceland's involvement in the work of the Atlantic Community, active cooperation with neighboring national security and its defence agreement with the United States. We up here in peaceful and wonderful Iceland can't allow us to take the matter of defense and security. We need to be aware and informed because our attitude in Iceland is important. We have a role in the society of the nations and are to shoulder our responsibilities there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u11	A respectable president. The level of mental health care for children and teenagers is often far inferior to other health care services for children and teenagers in Iceland. There is something incredibly unfair about the kind of disease that affects young people as to whether they get a good service or not. If children and teenagers experience an accident, we have much to do in the work of an excellent emergency service. We have a beautiful children's hospital, and in many areas we have a marvelous health care program with young people. Of course not everywhere, but in many places. In the case of mental health problems among children and adolescents, however, the whole other factor is 700 and some children are on the wait list. There are problems with housing, and the National Reconnaissance tells us absolutely that this is not okay, that we need to deal with mental health care with children and teenagers in Iceland. I challenge members of Congress that we side with the political parties, not allowing them to be old prejudices against certain types of diseases that control our priorities; that there will be an acute problem with mental health care as seriously as when we fall apart.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u12	V.E.G. President. It is a pleasure to receive the report from the National Association of Iceland's Common Association and the Organization of Employment, which has shared so much that the main presidents of the collective agreements since May, 2015, have been successful. It adds up to their opinion that the cost of pay has increased, so we have seen that there has been an increase in money, inflation is minimal, and unemployment is minimal. Statistics show that the general public believes that there is a better condition in society than there has been for a long time, and they sense that we are living in a much better quality of life here. However, there is one cause of a certain discomfort. It's kind of too mild to say that it's an inconvenience. That's when I'm talking about taking the banks. I've got a credit card in my hand where they're in the position of being paid one more time. At the top of the loans, the cost is no less than five thousand. which divide into what the bank calls a notification fee, a miscalculation, an intermediate fee of 3,700 bucks. and then, of course, there's a tow. If many are in this situation, it is only hoped that the banks will make a lot of money out of their misery. And listen, I told you, the subject is only one down payment afterwards. [[The president calls.]] This is something that needs to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u13	Mr. President. The importance of having access to psychological services without regard to economics must be undisputed, but it is clear that this vital service is not available at all today. My colleagues in the class of psychologists are so worried. Viðfur læra á mjáðið þú verða þú verið. Healthcare Minister on mental health care and policies until four years of age. However, there must be differences in viewpoint as to whether there is enough to be done. The suggestion, for example, says that it takes special attention to young people. You may be screened for anxiety, depression, and the effects of traumatic events among high school children and treating them appropriately. This is an important step, for the opportunity to promote mental health and to prevent psychiatric disorders most during childhood and adulthood. There is no reason for special action in behalf of young people who have graduated from high school and who are students of high school. The teenage years are a time of great turmoil, and changing from a child to an adult involves a variety of changes in development. Young ones spend much time in school, so he plays a key role in their lives. Now it is known that a drop from high school is especially due to some sort of mental illness that students face. Young people from high school have many consequences for their whole community. These include lost national income, decreased tax income, greater need for social support, and worse health. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, chairman of the welfare committee, for wanting to discuss this with me. I'd like to hear her look at these factors I mentioned and whether this was a special topic for discussion on the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Sigurbjörg of Erla Eglil's Egilsdóttir for having a word with me today about mental health. The Parliamentary arrangement for mental - health policies and measures at the highest level. A health minister has given us tremendous interest, and we have received many reports, so there is a great need. While reactions have generally been positive, most have pointed out that there is much more to be done and that these are positive first steps. Then, according to a general review, the so - called second and third - degree mental - health services needed to be better organized and appropriate waiting for children. The comments given and visits have brought us great joy because we are expected to increase the number of psychiatrists within our health care unit. At the same time, it has been noted that much more is needed than is laid up but enough of well - educated psychiatrists in this country will be good for this, so that there will be an easy number of them within the medical system. It is also pointed out that there is a great need for mental - health services, but for a very large number, there would be relatively little intervention if things were done early enough. Then we come to the young men, and I'll join them with a bang. A senator said that increasing the availability of high school students to psychological services is very important. So I happen to be right about sending out and asking for a proposal for psychology in high school students without cost. I hope it will be this week, so why. A senator can become an importer to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u15	A respectable president. Granted, no one has been hiding the controversy that has existed in Porta's council recently. However, the controversy has been caused by several media coverages, which are good and blessed. Yesterday, a group of Pirats issued a statement that we had filled our workplace psychologists to help us work together despite some of the conflicts that arise under extreme stress and unprecedented position. But we had refused to give an answer in the media because there is a community service that people are supposed to be able to pick up without having to answer for. People should be able to approach a lawyer without any comment. People should be able to consult a psychologist without giving an answer, and they should not comment on other medical services. Yesterday, we decided to make a joint statement stating that we have chosen to take advantage of this position in the workplace psychologist, and it has already done a great deal of good in a very short time. Now I understand that people are making fun of our differences and are stumbled that it takes place in the media. I myself believe that translucency is better than shyness over time. But what I'm afraid of, I must say, is to see that we have been helped by a workplace psychologist, taken as a sign of how much is happening to us, how terrible the bad things must be. A respectable president. It's the other way around. It's a sign of recovery.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u16	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u17	This kind of special help is not a option. I'm sure it is. Even healthy people should visit a psychologist at times, in my opinion, for the same reason that it is wise to get an opinion of physical health at times. Psychological services, even for perfectly healthy adults, are not around. We're not a taboo.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u18	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u19	A respectable president. As an authority, I had requested that the case be brought into question, but I withdraw that request because there is now a possibility that there will be no further issues in the matter. So I suggest that the case be agreed on as it is and then proceed to the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u20	A respectable president. I'm a registered authority on this case, and I didn't have the option to recommend it, but it's a great pleasure that the case is here for votes. This is a proposal for a synopsis on a free trade in the third largest economic power. Iceland has done a lot of business with Japan over the 60 years in which the countries have been involved in political relations. I'm just going to give two things to you; we've moved in fishing instruments from this country and we've moved seafood to this country. It is an excellent example in international relations as to how each person does best in his or her own business. I pray that as many members of the council will pay this body of Congress a vote and pay for free trade in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u21	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir When Vilhjálmur Bjarnason reviews that this is a very important matter. I wanted this case to inform me that I took up this matter on the EFTA Parliamentary Committee, on how things went, and on what would be a vacation shop with Japan. Unfortunately, considering the information we received from the Directorates of EFTA, it is not of interest for the Japanese to go to free trade agreements with EFTA or Iceland or individual countries, but I don't think we should stop trying. That is why it is vital that we show our clear will. Sadly, though, this is the situation in relation to the latest information from last week, a respected president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-82.u22	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a synonym to change the synopsis of Iceland's Communion Fund, no. 13/144. The first carrier of this proposal is why. paritaprevir Ríkharðsdóttir, whose daughter is absent because of serving abroad, is known as Richard. This proposal stands in all classes of council members, i.e. The one standing here as well as the one who hasn't. The members of Helgi Hjörvar, the Svandís, the Brynfjörn of Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, and Birgitta Jónsdóttir. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The Council concludes that the following change will be made in the synoptic resolution of Iceland's Communion Fund, No. 13/144: 2 mg The conclusion goes on to say: The General Assembly chooses five men's government of the fund and as many as one. A report says: On June 19, 2015, the General Assembly agreed on Iceland's Communion Fund, No. 13/144, on the grounds that 100 years had passed since women were elected by the constitution of the constitution of June 19, 1915. The conclusion was based on Iceland's equal rights fund, which should be made up of budgets for the next five years, i.e. 2016-2020, strengthening various tasks that have the intent to increase equality of the sexes. Sv. 2 mg. The synopsis shall be chosen by the Council in the management of three parties and three as a backup. This proposal suggests that there will be an increase of the number of directors from three to five in accordance with the agreement of members of the Parliament at the General Assembly.
